ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, I propose to the plenary a change in the order of discussion of motions, so that the one on the agenda with item 6 will be discussed first and then the one with item 5. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u2	It takes into account the proposed law submitted by La Izquierda Plural, on the universalization of the right to public health care, restoring the legal situation prior to the promulgation of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 of 20 April of urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the National Health System and to improve the quality and security of benefits. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr. Llamazares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am appearing on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left to defend for the third time in this legislature - they say that the third is the one that has been won, I hope - the partial repeal of Royal Decree 16/2012 as regards the exclusion of citizens from the health system in primary care and also the incorporation of the universal right to health in the General Health Act. As I said before, this is the third time that this initiative has been debated in this House. You will say that my parliamentary group is a small group, and it is true that we are, but not only that. It is because the President of the Government himself recently announced this same measure to the media. The problem is that since then, a month before the election call, nothing has been done. The right to primary care for these excluded citizens has been announced and yet we have known nothing since then, there has been no legislative initiative on the part of the Government, only an announcement of a meeting of the Minister of Health with the councillors of the autonomous communities. The position of my group is that the cause of the situation should be solved. That is to say, whoever modifies in some way the coverage and universality of the health system is the one who, through the repeal or a new rule, recomposes and recovers health care for these groups, not the one who passes the ball to the autonomous communities that have so far been the only ones, together with non-governmental organizations, that have tried to mitigate the effects of what we might call the political incarnation of the Government. Therapeutic incarnation, ladies and gentlemen, is to use excessive therapies causing more pain and not solving the health problem. Political incarnation is very similar, it is to use a measure knowing that this measure produces pain and also knowing that it will mean nothing to improve the quality and efficiency of the health system. This has been acknowledged by the President of the Government himself with his announcement. He said that they will recover primary care for undocumented citizens and that they will do so because these citizens are more expensive in emergency care. But if we had already said it, we had already said it, that there was a comparative study of health systems where it was shown that when there was no coverage and they had to go to the emergency services, usually from the public system - I mean the American public system in this case - the health cost went up by ten, and I no longer speak of the human cost because the human cost is much higher, because all we do is wait for the process to re-acquisition to tackle the health problem, with which the deterioration is increasing, both in chronic and cardiovascular diseases and in infectious diseases. Scientific societies, human rights organizations, all kinds of collectives, including international institutions, have told the Government of these same arguments, which now serve the President of the Government to recognize the need to modify and repeal the exclusion of hundreds of thousands of citizens from the health system. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, there have also been other side effects of this therapeutic incarnation that international organizations and scientific societies have calculated in thousands people who have been seen without coverage, without treatment in chronic diseases, after being admitted, undergoing surgery, people with chronic diseases, with infectious diseases, that has been one of the effects, but there have been others. Another effect of this exclusion from the health system is exclusions that we can call partial; partial exclusions that have had to do, for example, with the establishment of co-operatives in very fragile sectors, such as the chronically ill. We also have a study - not from the government but from accredited institutions - that says that at least 5% of patients stop using certain drugs, usually the most expensive, because of co-payment. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a partial exclusion of citizens from the health system. And we could say that a third exclusion or a third side effect is the one that has to do with disorganization, with what we could call the system's misadjustment. The Government has endeavoured to change the universal model by a model of insurance that separates insurance from insecure, from insured from uninsured, but that in the middle has created a broad group of insecure insured who have been affected by this model, a model that is now governed not only by the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities, but also by the Ministry of Health, the Autonomous Communities, the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Finance, in case there is little misadjustment in this area. As a result, many people who are entitled to health care have been seen as denying them the right or sending them an invoice home trying to collect a right they have theoretically recognized. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is enough with these arguments, which are sufficient for the Government to announce that it is going to amend Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 and not just to recover part of the excluded population for the health system, but to do so through a legal initiative and as soon as possible, by not passing the ball back to the autonomous communities, in my opinion, in a hypocritical way, because if the Government believes that things have gone wrong and that they need to be changed, the Government has to bear the cost of that change. That is our opinion and, therefore, that is the way. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we regret - I want to say this in relation to the speeches that have taken place in this House on other occasions - that the Government has broken an almost sanitary tradition over the last few decades. Since the Constitution, then with the General Health Act and later with the Cohesion Act, usually the autonomous communities and the central Government have marked a route of increasing coverage towards universality, of picking up more and more groups who were outside the health system or who did not have sufficient coverage by the health system. It concludes this process in the Public Health Act 2011, in its additional sixth, through an amendment agreed by the parliamentary groups in which we consider that there are two groups left, that of the unemployed without benefits, who also had problems of coverage, and the group of professionals, who were not normally covered by the public health system. Well, that process of increasing the coverage and universality of the system, that is, that process of humanization, of solidarity of the health system, was broken by the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012. Many things have happened, there have been three years of experience of this royal decree that breaks with the universality of the health system, there have been pronouncements of health care providers, scientific societies, international organizations and I believe that from the public point of view the effect of this royal decree has not been worse: it has deteriorated the image and has deteriorated the coverage and quality of the Spanish public health system, which had a good image abroad. I believe that we are in time and, above all, after an election, I believe that the People's Party and the Government are in time to rectify. It is not a problem of image, ladies and gentlemen, do not be mistaken, it is a problem of politics, of policies of incarnation with the citizens in a context of crises that need to be changed as soon as possible. I invite you to vote in favour of this legislative initiative so that we can regain the cruising speed in improving our health system and humanizing our political system. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. There's going to be a position-fixing shift now. We started with the Mixed Group. You have the floor, first of all, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. One of the saddest and most shameful episodes of this legislature has been to leave thousands of people without health care. Doing public health business as the Spanish right does is absolutely detestable. But, besides, excluding the humble, the people who come to our country in search of survival, it has no name. In the three years of the royal decree, 748,000 people lost their health card, according to data from Amnesty International in April 2015. It is the summum of the lack of humanity of a government with a black soul like coal. The decision was taken against any medical criteria. They tried to deceive society by continuing to talk about universal health when it was no longer universal, and the obvious objective of this legislature was to increase the business of private insurers in order to approach a model more similar to the American one, which causes so many problems, and to move away from ours, that of universal public health that was famous all over the world and that, in addition, most citizens are proud of. From this objective they have ruled to date in the autonomous communities, hence the weight of private health spending does not stop growing and is the highest in the European Union to Fifteen: year 2012, public health sector, 71%, private sector, 28%, source: System of Health Accounts. The analysis of progression is destructive. Since they entered the government, the private sector has not stopped growing and our first goal, contrary to the goal of the People's Party, is precisely the people, the dignity of all citizens, come from wherever they come from and win what they earn. From the public we have a responsibility towards the people and now, in our land, we will fulfill it. The proposal of the Plural Left is timely and also improveable, of course, which is only possible by taking it into consideration. Therefore, Compromís is going to vote absolutely in favour of this and any other who proposes to repeal the pharmaceutical and orthoprosthetic coffer, which has forced many citizens to abandon their medical treatments because they cannot afford to pay for them, and who proposes to recover the health for those who are more than ninety days abroad looking for work, those who have made it so difficult for them to vote in these elections. The People's Party government - I finish - has caused people a lot of suffering because it has attacked the most humble, stripped of many rights to the weakest and ruled only for the powerful. But there is little time left to continue doing this kind of evil; the question is whether they are able to start rectifying already and voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Joint Group too, I have the floor, Mr Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Canarian nationalists will, once again, unreservedly support a new initiative aimed at not only recovering in the Spanish State but finally establishing the universal right to the protection of the health of citizens. It seems to us very good that the objectives of this bill are related to the repeal of the unfortunate Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, which resulted in the effective exclusion of citizens from the right to health and the incorporation of the universal right to health in the pending General Health Law, as we all know that we defend that law and criticize that it was what was lacking, and that is what we are doing. In short, it is a question of recovering a model of the National Health System with all its characteristics, compared to the model of Social Security that has been established associated with charity. We strongly denounce the setback of more than thirty years that this implies, which in no case seems acceptable to us at this stage. I do not know if the recent electoral process at best helps to understand the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party the need to correct this. So much damage to so many people is not going to go unpunished, and therefore I hope that we may be able to agree on something as elementary as what we are proposing. The truth is that the reasons for doing all this have nothing to do with the effectiveness of the system, which is very high, nor with the efficiency, which is even higher because with less and less resources, very reasonable health indicators are maintained, nor with the improvement of public health in our community. It has nothing to do with this, rather the opposite. It has a lot to do, yes, with the Popular Party's allergy to public services, in a harsh neoliberal position that we believe should be abandoned now. They are allergic to public services, and when that happens it turns out that these things are done. On a tortuous path, the responsibility that is actually the responsibility of the State is transferred to the autonomous communities, with the healthy intention of, in addition to ruining the autonomous communities, blaming them. But the ultimate goal is to liquidate the National Health System and the right to health of the entire population. That's exactly what happens. I know that we have Goebbelian techniques to insist on otherwise, but I think that with little success; I have the feeling that you should already think about it. There is an unacceptable suffering of thousands of people who did not have it before; a deterioration of services also unacceptable, with increases in waiting lists, with adverse selection of people for economic reasons; there are people who do not take their medication because they cannot take the rest. Anyone who belongs to the health world and those who have also given public health class knows that this is a debate that has already had half a planet, and when half a planet is advancing, including the epitome of all this that is the United States, and starts to walk in a sense, we do the opposite. We congratulate Mr Llamazares on his intervention and announce our full support for his bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. I now give the floor to Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u9	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before the start of the election campaign, public health defence platforms called on citizens to bet on a change of course that would lead to the recovery of the quality public health system and the right to health care for the whole population. Platforms have once again called for what they have called for so many times in the last three years, which is the same thing that millions of citizens have demanded over and over again throughout the State and is also identical to what we have repeatedly proposed here by different groups and which has always been strongly rejected by the parliamentary majority: that health care be guaranteed to the entire population, that health personnel be increased, that systematic referrals to the private sector be stopped, that the number of hospital beds and resources for primary care be increased. That, ultimately, the dismantling of public health should be halted and that the privatized should gradually be recovered, which would end once and for all the externalisations and covert privatizations. All this, ladies and gentlemen, necessarily involves the repeal of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012; Law 15/1997, on new forms of management of the health system, and the amendment of the General Health Law to reinforce precisely the public and universal character of a right recognized nothing less than by the Constitution which the People's Party presumes at every step to defend. In addition to this, it is inescapable that the general state budgets will increase the allocations for health and reach the level of other European countries from which we are still far away. Ladies and gentlemen, Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, cynically called urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the health system and to improve the quality and safety of its benefits, placed us thirty years ago, at a time before the General Health Law itself which guaranteed the universal right to health care; recovered the figure of the insured person, who has the right to health care according to his contribution to Social Security, and caused the exclusion of undocumented immigrants and other collectives. In addition, he imposed co-payments and rests on pensioners and chronically ill people who weigh, and much, on the already deteriorated family savings; he cut the portfolio of services preparing the ground for insurers to cover the benefits excluded from public health, and all this with the aim of establishing a dual health, a quality health for those who can pay it and the benefit for those who cannot, and of course, promote the business of private health companies. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Royal Decree 16/2012 was one of the most serious threats to public health as a fundamental element of social cohesion, and was the perfect justification for the social exclusion of those most in need. The BNG has said this many times and we repeat it again today: we will support all initiatives that run counter to all the measures adopted by the Government for the deconstruction of public and universal health. We will therefore also vote in favour, and with full conviction that we are doing the right thing, to take into consideration this proposal for a law on the Plural Left. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Llamazares has presented his proposal for a law - with which, I say in advance, we fully agree - saying that it is the third time that he has come up to this rostrum to defend this issue. I too have to say that I appear for the third time asking for the same thing as him and gives me the feeling that, for the third time, the recipients of our request will answer the same thing. Perhaps I am no one to give any advice, but to see real situations that we have lived in different places and for different reasons, yes, and I can tell you that elections are usually lost because of ignoring what people ask for, and people are not political parties that for electoral reasons at some point want to give cane to the boss, no. In this case we are saying that all of us in this parliamentary circle, except the People's Party, think deeply that this is an injustice, and not paying attention to injustices normally causes the elections to be lost later. Let us go to what concerns directly this bill, with which my group fully agrees. What is at stake here is nothing more than whether we have the universal right to health, as a result of whether we have the universal right of access to the health system, to health care, regardless of any other condition - and that condition can be nationality, the employment situation, etc. - because we are people and where we are at every moment, have the right to health care if we need it. I think it is the great advance of humanity and democracy - forgetting any other issue - that universal right to be cared for if we have a disease, we are where we are and we have the situation we have. It has cost many centuries for the human being to realize that it is a great advance that makes us more human, that deepens in concepts such as democracy, so that now, by blow and feather, we convert that right by linking it to social security contributions, that is, by linking it to whether you pay or not, because social security contributions are a way of paying. When is it paid? When you are working, and we all contribute to that system, also because we require it, because then you have a return, but then only those who work can have health care, and, if not, it is a kind of disinheritance, of being a differentiated pariah in the same society on the basis of whether or not you work. That great concept has always been above and we have always said that it cannot be, health care cannot be linked to social security contributions, because it is an injustice and because we consider it to break the basic pillar of what is a social and a democratic State. I want to think that the people of the People's Party who chose to raise this did so for an economic objective, that is, they knew it was an injustice, but they considered that the country's economic situation required a change, because that saved them. It is the third time that I have come up here and ask the People's Party whether they can please give us data to know, from the application of this criterion, how much the State has saved, in what concepts and how. The answer is that they have not saved, because the mere announcement - as Mr Llamazares has quoted - that this will be changed is because he had already told them more than one that the administration of this system would be more complicated than the administration and that instead of saving it would be spent more. Therefore, even the economicist objective has not been used to consider this. We understand, as I said before, that health protection is an unquestionable universal right and not a result of a contribution. In the background, in the end, we are saying that the culprit, the core of this whole issue is the famous Royal Decree-Law 16/2012. This is one of the issues envisaged in this royal decree-law, which was the great bomb within the health policy of this new government of the People's Party. All of us here have criticized, denounced how unfair it is, how undemocratic it is, which is worthless, which has not solved any problems, because no one has yet come up to this rostrum to tell us what problems the implementation of this royal decree-law has solved. No problem has been solved, it has generated problems where it had not, nor has it saved, of course, in addition to invading competences that the Ministry of Health has assumed for itself, that the only thing it has done is complicate living together and not solve any health problems. That being said, apart from recalling all the times that we have come up to this rostrum on behalf of my group to say that we obviously had to repeal the royal decree-law and that we were against what we were talking about now, as well as the co-sponsorship, for example, as another measure which, apart from not solving anything economically, is also unfair because we have already paid through another system, said this, I repeat, in some places we have been much more consistent than that and we have gone with a much more democratic and much more universal talent. In Euskadi, for example, it has not been applied, no one has been left without assistance or coverage because they were from outside or because they had no papers or because they were not working. The Basque Government has said that with the tools in its hand it will not allow this injustice to occur in any citizen. Therefore, everyone has been cared for and everyone has been given the necessary health care. I end up because after all the arguments that have been quoted by other colleagues, such as those who are going to quote those who come, as the same proponent has also explained, more words are left. What had to be said has already been said today, other days and on previous occasions, and in the end the same Government has also had to say, because it has rectified, but let us see whether its rectification is just an election announcement or whether it is really an announcement of something that is going to change. Correcting is wise, but being inconclusive in error is... I'm not going to quote the name. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Díez has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u13	Thank you, President. Indeed, as the proposer has already said, it is the third time that he or his parliamentary group has brought the matter to debate, but I have lost track of the times that this matter - the need to abolish, amend, reform, withdraw Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 - has been debated since the very moment it was adopted. All the points that have been warned by my predecessors in the use of the floor are true. It's not a matter I wasn't aware of. The consequences of this royal decree-law were absolutely warned by all, there was unanimity in all the groups of the House that the implementation of this royal decree was going to have an effect that we could consider as the effect of an anti-personnel mine, because the people to whom the royal decree-law has affected, all of them have ruined their lives. Really, we have achieved nothing good, nothing positive from the implementation of this royal decree-law. The Government was warned, the majority group was warned, I would say that in some cases even at least one part of the People's Parliamentary Group agreed that the warnings we made to them unfortunately were to be confirmed, but up to now it has been absolutely impossible for the Government to rectify them. It is true - it has been said here - that there has been a verbal correction, the minister did it a few months ago, before the autonomous and municipal elections, it was done by the President of the Government in reply to an oral question in plenary that this Parliament itself asked him, but to date, which we know, and we know it well, nothing has been done to restore rights to citizens who had been denied them. Today we only address a part of this royal decree, an important part that has to do with precisely those citizens to whom the royal decree - the system therefore - has expelled and removed their rights, which they have as individuals, as human beings, who do not reside in the roles they have, because human beings and their rights to protection are above the roles they bear or do not bear. It is a question of resuming those rights which have been withdrawn from them, which have been denied to them, and this is the question that Mr Llamazares raises today on behalf of the Plural Left. I congratulate you on the initiative, that you have brought it twice before does not mean that you must not bring it again, you must insist until you win, I think that is a maximum of many, but it seems to me clear that the resistant have the last word. By the way, I congratulate you on your election result in Asturias, because it is also a demonstration of resistance and persistence, and these things usually bring positive results. It has brought them for you and for your training - that in the case of Asturias let me identify them in your work and in your person - and it has to bring them to an issue like this in which a just cause is being defended. Only the encroachment of the majority group not to rectify its Government has brought us to the situation in which we are at present. As I recalled earlier, the Government itself knows that it has to rectify. The Government itself has acknowledged, in connection with the expulsion of people who do not have papers, that there is a risk - the Minister of Health said textually - of public health. Not only is there a risk of public health, but there is, in addition to an increase in the overall system, a lack of care and an injustice to all of them. In fact, there is nothing positive, nor for the highest, which is rights, nor for the most everyday, which is resources. Since there is nothing positive and as the Government itself has warned that it will rectify, it would be a good time for the dynamics of the majority group to be changed and this legislative initiative to be processed, which, moreover, if they want to sell it as they were already in it, and we therefore give it the process because we are already doing it and we are going to work on the issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Group, you know that this royal decree-law did not universalise health. He turned patients into clients - we told him and it's true -. It did not remove bureaucratic obstacles by facilitating the mobility of health professionals across the national territory, something they assumed, but it has not been so, but quite the opposite. It failed to guarantee equal access to health benefits for all citizens, apart from the part of Spain in which they lived. The cohesion of the National Health System did not increase, on the contrary. It did not succeed in curbing the deterioration of health services in different autonomous communities, not because they exercised their competence, but because the Royal Decree-Law placed more obstacles in that direction. I insist, it's a disaster that was announced. It has had consequences on all the people it has affected, that we are all Spaniards, like an anti-personnel mine. That the government's goal wasn't that? In principle I never believe in intrinsic evil and I never believe that governments make laws to annoy people, but the laws must be reviewed in the light of their consequences, and the consequences of this royal decree-law have been very negative for the citizens concerned, who are, I insist, the whole of the Spaniards. Correct yourselves, say if you want to do it already, but let us use this procedure to make it possible to take this legislative initiative into consideration and to get to work on it. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió, Mr Picó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Llamazares said that it was the third time that he had defended in the rostrum the subject of the bill he has formulated today. I would say that it is the umpteenth time in this legislature, after the adoption of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, that we are debating in the House, either in plenary or in the Commission, the modification of the public health care system. I do not think that the political forces represented here can do anything but insist on what we have already expressed on other occasions. I am very afraid that the blocks that this issue creates seem immobile. My group will support the proposal for a law put forward by the Plural Left, as it has done on other occasions with initiatives from other parliamentary groups. When the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 was passed by the government we were repeatedly wanted to believe - they insisted on it because of the fact that repeating something often makes us believe that it is true - that the regime was being modified to regulate health tourism. If that were really the case, I think that all the parliamentary groups could have agreed in some sense, but it was not and is not. The Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 was a thorough modification of the health model, taking as the center of the model the insured and not the citizen. Mr Agirretxea also mentioned this. We were wanted to be convinced by the Government at the time that the model change measure was based on the savings it would entail. In addition to considering that it is daring to talk about savings without taking into account many other aspects of health, it has never been shown that there is such savings, otherwise it has not been. If the aim had been to ensure the sustainability of the health system - which remains the major issue not only of this legislature but also of the previous ones - it would have been addressed, first, by increasing State budgetary resources for the autonomous financing of health, by resolving the traditional under-financing of the health system, and by guaranteeing the principle of institutional loyalty in the health field, by allocating specific funding for the new benefits approved by the Government of the State. The sustainability of the system has not been addressed, and many autonomous communities - Mr Llamazares and Mr Agirretxea also recalled - have assumed the guarantee of access to public health care to citizens who are not insured or beneficiaries by the National Health System, as has been the case in Catalonia, and in those autonomous communities that have not assumed it, many social organizations are doing so. Since the last time we spoke on this issue, which seems to me to recall that it was in March, we must say that we are pleased and welcome the change in approach of the Ministry of Health with regard to the access of immigrants to primary care. It was a measure that the Catalan Parliamentary Group had repeatedly called for, always receiving a refusal from the Government, but it remains, we believe, insufficient, because the model is the same, and we do not share it. As I say, now the proposed law amends articles that we consider important of this royal decree-law, articles that the Parliament of Catalonia and also the Generalitat of Catalonia have resorted to, starting a process of unconstitutionality. Therefore, all we do is claim and ask what we were defending from the first day: return to the universality of the system. Removing citizenship rights, such as access to health care, is neither possible nor, in our view, constitutional. To restore the public health model based on the right of citizens to universal access to health care is to enforce, from our point of view, the provisions of article 43 of the Constitution, which recognizes full respect for rights in the field of health care. I said it in March. I would also like to remind you that this decision to change the health model is contrary to the agreements adopted in this House. I remember the last one, the one reached within the subcommittee for the analysis of the structural problems of the health system, which studied the main reforms that must be undertaken to ensure their sustainability and which contained, among other recommendations, the preservation of universality in citizens' access to public health services. That report was approved by this House and that report contained that recommendation, which is therefore not being complied with. I would also like to recall - I do not know if any spokesman has said this, but I think it is important to remember this - that international bodies have expressed themselves against regime change. For example, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights showed that the lack of treatment for poor or undocumented migrants was unacceptable. More recently, a report by the Council of Europe also found the decision to restrict access to free health care for immigrants in an irregular situation to be illegal. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my group, as it has done before, shares the purpose of the proposed law, shares the return to the universal healthcare system, overcoming the insurance system, and we support the consideration of the proposed law made in this case by the Group of the Plural Left and defended by Mr Llamazares. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u17	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to set the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on this proposal from the Plural Left. There are already countless times when the different groups of the House have asked the government to repeal Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, initiatives with all the modalities that the Rules allow, and I also believe that we have all done so. In all of them, the Government and the People's Party have always looked elsewhere. They are reluctant to admit the reality that is occurring with the development and implementation of this royal decree-law, unjust and alarming consequences for the population, for all political groups, for different international bodies, for the Council of Europe, for the United Nations. Everyone agrees less with the People's Party. Perhaps the Minister has not reached the gravity of the situation because all the messages transmitted to him are perhaps covered with a certain softness, but those responsible for the ministry, who should have real knowledge of the National Health System, really know everything that has been transferred to them by the different professional organizations such as the College Medical Organization, the scientific communities, social entities such as Doctors of the World, Amnesty International, the autonomous communities themselves..., all of them cannot make any more negative conclusions. If any of the thirteen Members - perhaps now fifteen - present from the People's Group are for the good, please let the minister know that it is not gold that shines all in his ministry and that this royal decree-law is being unjust and inhumane. Above all, it is a cut-off from a fundamental right such as the right to health. The Minister is reminded of article 43 of the Constitution, the General Health Act and the Public Health Act. I understand that it can cost you a bit of work, because so far it has always been a foreign subject, but right now it is your responsibility, so you should listen. We have given them enough arguments from all the groups. I ask you to reconsider your position, impassive so far. The implementation of the royal decree-law is being uneven, with different solutions, even with crazy solutions. Lack of a health card can lead to situations of personal gravity, increased morbidity and mortality in multiple cases, and can lead to health alerts due to serious irresponsibility. We have all asked them on several occasions to assess the impact of the measures of this royal decree-law and they have not wanted to do so. I do not know whether this report has come to you, but many Members know it. [[Show a document]] Amnesty International has done this assessment and I recognize with a certain dose of shame that the aforementioned Amnesty International report analyzes the consequences in two communities where the cases are most alarming: in the Valencian Community and in that of Castile-La Mancha. This report contains some specific cases in which the care of citizens residing in my community, Castile-La Mancha, has been denied, where inhumane situations have occurred. In my land there has been a policy of rigorous implementation of the royal decree-law - an obedient president we have had, for a short time, I hope -. They know that many health care providers have continued to provide primary care; others result in emergencies, but have limited professional intervention in monitoring processes. They've tried to smooth this out, but what they've done is they don't know if I want to or don't want to, but I don't want to see it, and what they've done is they've taken responsibility for primary care doctors. They can't do diagnostic tests or get specialists if they don't have a health card. Come on, what they've done is a bread like a cake because they already did all this without their permission, but they did most of them for professional ethics, and now what happens to them is to create charity. Look, don't use arguments that are already far from reality to have the appeal not to rectify. You know that, in addition, this situation has caused another collateral damage that has become apparent two days ago. During the election day, many of our children, children of citizens whom we represent, who are abroad and who are not doing tourism, do not register with the consulates in order not to lose their health card, because when they come to Spain they lack health coverage and cannot take that risk, and for that reason they cannot exercise their right to vote. Then you are the ones who have despised them as citizens. Our group will support the proposal for a law on the Plural Left and in its handling, if you will allow, we will make amendments to complete its content, which we believe can be improved. If it were possible - I hope - we ask you to repeal the royal decree-law that so much damage is causing thousands of citizens, Spanish and residents in our country, but citizens who are being denied a fundamental right such as the right to health. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs Martín González. For the People's Group, you have the word doña Teresa Angulo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are again discussing a matter on which much has been said in this Parliament and on which I believe the positions of the parliamentary groups are already well known. Today we have heard again from the various spokesmen the same arguments that have been repeated in order to demonize the work on the health measures of this Government and once again this group is forced to reiterate what was the origin or the foundation of this royal decree-law and what effect it has achieved with it. Above all, once again we are obliged to tell the truth of things, that which you are striving to try to make up and hide, because the truth is that our care model has not changed much less, it remains the same, and the truth is that - I am glad that Mr. Calling finally - here the health was not universal. It was at the initiative of the People's Party when, from 2012, for the first time, all Spaniards and foreigners legally residing in Spain were entitled to health care. [[Rumors]] In our country until 2012, the colossal nonsense was taking place, the tremendous inequality that more than 200,000 Spaniards were not entitled to health care that they did pay with their taxes. Therefore, saying that our health was universal was a myth until 2012. I remind the 13 Socialist Members who are here today that the long-term unemployed have not had it without subsidies since 1992 and did not have it because a left-wing government took it away. It was the initiative of the People's Party to correct this tremendous injustice. Not only that, it has been this government that has approved that these people do not have to pay for their medicines, the same ones that with left governments had to pay for 40% of their medicines: a million people who today do not have to pay. As you speak here of what does not come in the proposal for a law, I have no choice but to say it. When they say that the royal decree-law introduced the co-payment into this country, they may be telling the citizens that perhaps the deputies had some right or some other benefit, because, as far as I know, all the citizens who had the green prescription paid 40% of the medicines - there was co-payment -. [[Applauds]] If some of you had other privileges, you will have to explain it. With regard to the inequalities you are talking about, in Spain there are 500 million medical acts per year and neither the ministry nor the autonomous communities are notified of problems of people who have not been able to buy these medicines. When some parliamentary groups that I do not see now, such as the Catalan Group, talk about the co-sponsors and accuse us of that neglect, I would like to remind them of measures such as the euro per prescription or the one for which the assistants have to pay for the bed in some Catalan hospitals. Sometimes the lessons that come from some speakers are a little strange. Rentists with incomes above the interprofessional minimum wage, 600 euros - really rich - and thousands of liberal professionals were also excluded; that is, you cannot boast of universal health. This government had to work on a health reform that was necessary and that had a positive impact because we must bear in mind that in 2011 for an incorrect application of European legislation and for an ineffective management of resources by the socialist government, the solvency and sustainability of our system was in danger. [[Mr Trevín Lombán speaks words that are not perceived]] A reform that also wanted to ensure that sustainability by the high standards of quality and professionalism that make our system a benchmark outside our country. I had to hear that someone in this rostrum was comparing our health and setting the model of the United States as an example. Neither I nor I believe that none of my colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party want the example of health to be that of the United States, as some spokesman has said. We must continue to insist that this reform was necessary. Mr Agirretxea, indeed, has had positive and clear consequences that it was necessary to guarantee this concept of insured and beneficiary because the consequences were there, and the Socialist Party Government, if it had continued to govern, would have had to take action, because, first of all, we had opened an infringement procedure against our country which, on the one hand, could entail the paralysis of European funds, and to see who assumed that, apart from the millionaire fine. Precisely because they only required registration to hold the card, there were citizens who had obtained the status of insured and what they wanted was not only to be treated here without anyone paying for it, but also to export that right to the rest of the European Union. This is what we have repeated many times, people with high purchasing power who could afford to pay and be living here for several months so that our public health would meet them, paid with the taxes of those Spaniards to whom precisely the left of this country was denying them health care, which meant that famous EUR 1 billion fraud, which we did not say, had been warned by the Court of Auditors. Of course, ending such fraud and irregularities is a positive effect of such reform. As regards the protection of foreigners in an irregular situation, which is another mantra that you have been repeating, you know very well that Spain has the legal framework for the greatest protection of Europe as a whole, the best and the most supportive. You, on some issues, compare us to other countries of the European Union, but I believe that we must have some political coherence and honesty and compare ourselves to all, and we must see how this collective is treated in the rest of the European Union. In Spain, this reform has been made in the most solidarity way because it has public health programmes - vaccinations, prevention and control of infectious diseases -, children under the age of eighteen are given exactly the same treatment as Spaniards and emergency situations are managed in the same way whatever the cause and situation of pregnant women. And indeed, Mr. Llamazares, the Government is now planning to take one more step. For this reason, the Ministry is working on the programme of health promotion, disease prevention and health care provision, which further ensures that immigrants in an irregular situation access with the rest of the citizens through primary care as a gateway to the health system. But this is not much less a step back or the recognition of a mistake. The aim is to move forward, to unify criteria with the autonomous communities, to make the functioning of the National Health System more and more effective and to provide all people with the best possible health care. Your proposal for a law, and what you have repeatedly claimed with the repeal of this royal decree, would be to reverse measures that have been achieved by extending universality and ending the tremendous injustice of thousands of excluded Spaniards. That is why we cannot support an initiative which, in addition to containing absolutely no corrective measure of the deficiencies that you know very well that our health system had, would endanger it again. This group is not going to contribute, supporting the consideration of this bill, to endangering our health system again, to bankrupting it again, to continuing to maintain inequities, to continue to bet on fraud or to continue to make the Spanish pay the health of those hundreds of thousands of foreigners with high purchasing power that we all know, who came here to operate, without the previous government doing anything to recover that money, at the cost of Spanish taxes. What we are going to continue to do, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, is to work for an increasingly better and better quality health system that has managed to be a reference outside our borders and that, moreover - for some reason - has managed to make the Spaniards the people with the most life expectancy in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Angulo. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Body for Transfer of Ownership and Competencies from AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. [[File number 122/000183]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u21	Takes into account the proposal for a law of the Joint Group, which is an organic body for the transfer of ownership and powers from AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. For your defence, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u22	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we bring here today for your consideration a proposal for a law on the transfer of ownership and powers from the AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Although we are doing so today in the form of a bill, many of you know that this is an issue that the BNG has repeatedly raised over the past few years through initiatives of all kinds in this House and also in the Senate. Initiatives which have run different fates but which on several occasions have been approved although - to be said - never implemented. It took place, for example, in February 2009, when Congress adopted a motion by the BNG requesting, in a framework of joint dialogue between the Government of the State and the Xunta, an analysis of the functionality in the State road network of the AP-9 motorways, the Atlantic motorway, and the AP-53 between Santiago and the Alto de Dozón, which would determine, where appropriate, the transfer to the Xunta of road functions and services for these motorways, as well as the analysis of their tariff policy. It also took place in 2011 in the Senate, when, at the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, all groups urged the Government to convene the bilateral Galicia-State cooperation commission to negotiate the pending transfers and study the management by the Xunta of the AP-9 and AP-53 motorways. But the reality is that, despite the fact that initiatives have been adopted both in Congress and in the Senate, the situation today remains the same and the AP-9, which unites Ferrol with Tui, remains entirely state-owned, despite the fact that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, after the BNG put it alone for a long time, used it as a bold weapon, depending on who was in the central government or the autonomous. Today the senator of the People's Party for the province of Lugo, Mr Barreiro, requested it as president Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, and the PSOE voted against. Mr Feijóo, today president of the Xunta, asked when he was in the opposition and Mr Touriño presided over the Xunta. Mrs Fernández Pena, a socialist senator, put it again and was rejected by the People's Party. Finally, the two major parties that have ruled the state in the last thirty years have said yes and not according to the color of the benches where they sat at every moment. Meanwhile, neither the AP-9 tolls have stopped rising nor the deterioration of the dealership's service has ceased to worsen without either PSOE or PP facing it. Ladies and gentlemen, talking about the AP-9 Ferrol-Tui, on the Atlantic Highway, is talking about the main channel of communication in Galicia, which connects from north to south the entire Atlantic axis of our country and five of the seven major Galician cities where most of the Galician population and also the economic activity of our community are concentrated. To talk about the AP-9 is to talk about a fundamental vertebrate axis for Galicia's internal communication and also for our communication with Portugal, a way for which today, as incredible as it may seem, there is no alternative to safe and feasible toll-free. The National 550 A Coruña-Tui, which would have to fulfil that role, crosses numerous urban hubs and crossings, presents a great deterioration in many of its sections and accuses the lack of investment necessary by the ministry for its integral improvement and so that it can really become a toll-free alternative to the AP-9. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a path on which, despite its shortcomings, we are highly dependent and on which, in turn, much of Galicia's development depends, both socially and economically. Its privatization in 2003 by President Aznar, by the way without having at all the Galician public institutions, is the typical example of a harmful use of public resources and of putting the general interest in the service of powerful private companies that made a round business with the money of all. First the infrastructure is built with public money, then it is sold to Sacyr and later it is sold to Citigroup for a price seven times higher than it had been purchased. Meanwhile, its concession is also armored by Mr Aznar's second government for 25 more years until the year 2048, and recently, once cashed out with dividends, it is sold again - or in that we are - to another speculating fund of the United States, which obviously pays nothing back in Galicia. Profitability for buyers is, especially at this time of economic crisis, insulting to users, who suffer one of the most expensive tolls in the whole State. From 2003 to 2011, in the hardest part of the economic recession, the profits have been €463.55 million, mainly on account of the rise of 57% above the CPI accumulated between the first eleven years of its privatization, unabated for thousands of drivers, and it has also occurred on account of a systematic cost-saving policy that translates into serious and very important deficits in prevention, security, maintenance and services, and also on account of the more than 20 million to be paid between the State and the Xunta, i.e. citizens, as compensation for the gratuitous nature of certain sections. The complaints and complaints of the users are innumerable; from the lack of lighting in many sections to the replacement of the firm, from the signage to the conditions of the toll areas, from the situation of the service areas or the rest areas to the increasing suppression of staff in the cabins. Despite the fact that the regulations governing the operation of the concessional motorways stipulate that the concessionaire must maintain the route under perfect conditions of use, even though the Ministry of Promotion must ensure that the concessionaire must comply with the conditions, that the inspection service under its competence must continuously monitor and monitor the performance of the concessionaire's obligations and act in the event that, despite all this, in AP-9, in addition to all the deficiencies I have described above, there are endless queues and intolerable collapses every summer. The ministry at its peak, and always after much prior social and political pressure, is to open an information file of which, despite the fact that this group has requested, we have never known of its conclusion and resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, there is considerable discomfort in Galicia over the repeated non-compliance of the concessionaire and the lack of forceful measures by the ministry, which knows that these incidents occur year after year and that they have a negative impact on the service to users, who also have to pay a high price to circulate through the AP-9. It is necessary to overcome these situations and it is necessary - we have requested it in countless occasions - to manage from Galicia our main road infrastructure, to implement the transfer of competences on the legal regime of the AP-9 to the autonomous community; a transfer that has its legal basis in article 27.8 of our Statute and article 148.1.5 of the Constitution, both referring to roads whose route runs entirely through Galician territory. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, a motorway that runs from Ferrol to Tui, from Galicia north to Galicia south. Therefore, the argument put forward by the Ministry of Development, regardless of the political colour of its holder, about its international character, is also not valid. Tui's connection to the Portuguese border is through the A-55, which is autonomous and which connects with Portugal. The ownership and competence of the Galician Government over the AP-9 would make it a direct interlocutor with the concessionaire and allow it to set the amount of tolls in function and with thorough knowledge and close to our needs, although I would like to insist that from the BNG we believe that this motorway should be toll-free. It would increase the public heritage of the autonomous community and allow for the most timely decisions and measures to improve urban accessibility in our Atlantic façade. The Government had recently adopted a road bill that included the possibility of transferring to the autonomous communities different routes of State ownership. We want to assume that it will not be done as at other times by a coup d'état and that a dialogue and negotiation will be opened with the autonomous governments in this regard, but in the meantime, these governments already have legal protection and cover to be they who demand the transfer of routes to the ministry and, therefore, to self-responsibility and to manage the internal connections. It is logical, ladies and gentlemen, that Galicia has the capacity to decide and plan its road infrastructure precisely in order to overcome the problems that we have traditionally had and that have often led to decisions being made and significant investments being made that did not always meet our real needs or take into account the vertebration of our territory. And it makes even more sense, ladies and gentlemen, if we put on the table the figure of what Galicia is paying, more than EUR 3 million per year and which it will pay until the year 2048 in the specific case of the AP-9. Ladies and gentlemen, the current model, largely dependent on government and state design, has not always demonstrated a knowledge of our social and economic reality. It has not always been an example of coordination between administrations and, worse still, it has on many occasions been unbalanced and it has increased the differences, in the case of Galicia already abysmal, between the different territories. For all these reasons and, I insist, because at one time or another the two majority groups have not echoed this demand of Galician society, I request your support and consideration of this bill. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. From the seat, briefly. I believe that the initiative put forward by the BNG was already meridianly clear and became more transparent after listening to the words of the Member who defended it. Moreover, it is supported by the provisions of the constitutional bloc, the Statute of Galicia and the Spanish Constitution itself, and I do not think it requires further justification. The Basque Group will therefore vote in favour of taking account of this proposal for a law so that, once and for all, the forecasts, as I told you, of the block of constitutionality are complied with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. For the sake of Progress Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. We are going to vote in favour of taking this proposal into consideration because it seems reasonable to us that the major strategic paths of a territory are under autonomous competence. That is the point that, if it were taken into consideration, we would be tabling amendments, because we do not share point 3 of Article 1, where we are talking about transferring the exploitation and the concession regime but without the debts. The Galician Autonomic Agreement is also a State; it is not only the State that has to pay and the autonomous communities that have to receive, but there must be a fair and balanced sharing of financial burdens. We would not agree on that, but on the other hand, it seems to us to be a reasonable request. All that we have travelled through Galicia know this motorway, and this is a clear case where subsidiarity is an interesting principle to take into account. But what we cannot share is that it is the State, the general interest, all of us here, those who pay taxes and stay with the debts and the burdens, and with the part of a exploitation in the best conditions, with a zero debt, if there is one, which I do not know, left the Galician Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Mr Centella has the floor for the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. The proposal before us opens an interesting and important debate, which goes even beyond the specific issue. That is why we are not going to intervene just to show our support for the consideration of this proposal, but rather to highlight some elements that are behind the problem of AP-9 itself. The crisis has served and is serving to see in depth how some political decisions remain in the air that were made in times of good times, where there were issues that could not be perceived and that were taken on a very electoralist basis, whose significance we are now seeing. It is primarily in the field of infrastructure where those terrible political decisions were made that could go unnoticed at the time because there was money for everything, or it was thought that there was money for everything, but that we now see clearly: airports that do not serve, high-speed networks that do not make sense, etc. On the other hand, we saw that other issues became a business. And this is where we enter into the contradiction between the public and the private, between what is business and what is public service. For this reason, the situation that appears with the AP-9, Galicia's main motorway, as has already been said, highlights how, once again, the business takes precedence over the general interest, in this case of all Galicia. It may seem unheard of if one sees it with a general perspective, but no action is taken and, in the end, one ends up not knowing whether the responsibility lies with the Government of the Galician People's Party, the Government of the Central People's Party, or between one and the other the losers so that, in the end, the business does so by those who have to do it; the key is who does the business. We believe that we cannot continue to maintain a situation that gives bad service, has a high cost and does not solve the real problem, which is that of good communications, or the problems that can cause in that area that we are talking about. It affects more than 44% of the Galician population, a number that can be increased in the summer months because the tourism sector in Galicia, as in other parts of the state, is important that is often undermined by this reality. We cannot understand why non-understanding between administrations, finally comes to be paid by the majority of citizens. It is not by chance, there is a first element that we have already denounced that is when the priority or interest of a Government is to defend the private from the public, when the fundamental thing is to defend the business of those who correspond instead of the collective interest. But there is a second element that is also important, which is to understand the reality of a State that cannot be centralist, of a State that has to tend to a federal situation where decisions cannot be made that run counter to the realities - not only of the competences, but of the realities - of the peoples of the Spanish State. That is why we have raised in other debates that the current Constitution remains small. But if that Constitution is interpreted in a restrictive way, it is not that we are kept small, it is that it becomes a problem. Today we have learned that the Constitutional Court has rejected a law that sought to prevent evictions in Andalusia. If it is not understood that the Spanish State is plurinational, it is not understood that this State can have even a tangible future. We are also talking about that issue, not just a short-term problem of a toll; we are talking about the configuration itself. The People's Party does not understand it, it goes in a totally opposite direction and, in the end, it ends up losing on an electoral issue. Fortunately, in Galicia, as in other parts of the State, electoralism has become less and less likely, and, as we have seen a few days ago, citizenship surpasses the possibilities of changes over and above the electoral actions of the leaders on duty. But we are convinced that this electoralism that has been used in this case will not work for you, as it has not worked for you in other localities, as you have lived a few days ago. We welcome the proposal for a law and will vote in favour of transferring the powers of the AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as it also coincides with the processing of the draft road law that has been adopted in the Council of Ministers, which provides for the transfer of these titles to the autonomous community. But, fundamentally, because it is not only a matter of competence but also of substance. If you don't understand, you won't have a problem, there will be someone who understands it for you and who makes you understand it. We believe that, sooner than later, it will be a reality that the Galician community, like other communities in the Spanish State, is more than a community to the extent that they can have the skills to manage, to program things as important as communication itself, something fundamental to the economy and the people's own lives in this territory. I repeat, we believe that there are plenty of reasons to approve this organic law proposal presented to us by the BNG, while urgent measures can also be put in place because, obviously, if the procedure were approved - at this point one cannot lose that naivety - urgent measures would have to be taken to avoid the situations of stuckness that occur in the AP-9 on the dates near the summer, for which there are not just days left for it to happen. For this reason, our group is going to present a GNP, in which we are going to urge the Government to take urgent steps to ensure that Audasa has the necessary number of toll collectors in AP-9, after defining the forecast of days of more traffic influx, to resolve these possible bottlenecks and to include in these measures also the lifting of tolls during the necessary time to resolve the bottlenecks. That is, the fundamental thing is to solve people's problems and not to solve the problems of the more or less private interests behind this whole matter. I repeat, therefore, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. We believe that this is something that has served us to frame the difference between the public and the private, and also to frame a debate that needs to be held, sooner rather than later, in this House on the model of state because, I repeat, the current one does not only not solve problems but sometimes creates them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Macias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group is going to vote in favour of this consideration, as it could not be otherwise. We understand and absolutely share the spirit, the letter and the will of what was told here by the representative of the Galego Nationalist Block. [[The lady]] Beyond expressing our sense of vote, it seems to me that the occasion is also appropriate to be able to talk about the substance of the matter, as did Mr Centella. It is worth it at this point in time when a road law will be processed in order to have some serious debate here and to be able to share a solution on something that is as controversial in Galicia, and also in Catalonia, as the toll roads. As I understand it, ladies and gentlemen, there are two important aspects that we should be able to introduce into our system. Firstly, the principle of European transport policy, repeatedly claimed, which is the principle of payment for use of all those who, in some way, through the road get a profit or produce a good. This is a claimed principle. At some point the European Union is going to address the Spanish State so that this will be implemented seriously, and that it will apply not only to the Galician Atlantic façade but will apply in general. I believe that the Galicians have the same rights as other citizens of the Spanish State, that there are no lucky people who do not pay, and others who are punished, as in this case you, who have to pay. Therefore, the first principle on which we should agree would be simply to apply the European policy on payment for use, which would also allow us to introduce elements of rationality throughout the system. A second very important element, perhaps linked to this, another European principle, is that the polluter pays. Moreover, this is a principle that in all urban systems has much to do with rationalizing mobility, with mobility actually being a sustainable mobility, with which, to put it mildly, those who use sustainable modes of travel do not have to pay, even if they are helped, and hence public transport subsidies, and instead, those who use them having alternatives, this always, means of private transport, have to contribute to the costs of congestion and the costs of decontamination of air, for example. These are two principles that we should be able to discuss. I would like us to be able to share them, and I would very much like us to be able to make modern, current legislation, legislation that adapts these principles of common sense, endorsed, adopted by the European Union and which one day or another will have to be implemented. In the meantime, the problem in politics is always those in the meantime, in the meantime, what do we do? Obviously, we have a dual network and you can't go from night to morning from everything to nothing, you have to be reasonable and progressive, progressive as well, but progressive. How? With measures such as those you are proposing, rationalisation measures, which we have called in Catalonia for homogenisation, of the road network. We have demonstrated this with some case of absolute success, as has been the diversion of heavy vehicles in the N-II to the A-2 in the province of Girona, a radical success that above has not cost money to the public estuary, I repeat, has not cost money to the public estuary, and that has also sharply decreased the accidentability, a terribly positive aspect, and has contributed to a very significant decrease in CO2 emissions. There are, therefore, solutions to this progressive political transfer, and it seems to me that what you are proposing goes in this direction. Why do I think so? Look at you. This solution that has been adopted in Girona is in two ways the ownership of the State: the N-2 is the ownership of the State, and the AP-7, like the AP-9, a concession of the State. Who was the pusher? Who negotiated it? Who urged it? It was the Catalan government. Finally, the Ministry of Development, I believe, has accepted the proposal well and approved it in this case. The Ministry of Development must be congratulated frankly because it had the courage to adopt this solution. I repeat, who has made the policy because he has had proximity, because he has been able to speak with local agents, with the world of transport, with the entities, with the municipalities, has in any case been the Autonomous Administration. I think that all this makes a lot of sense to what you are proposing: from proximity, from knowledge, from the articulation of urban systems one can perfectly make rational policies. In any case, the State, as the holder of this call of the rigid network of general interest of the State, has to be understandable, it has to understand that uniform rules cannot be dictated, without considering what is in the territory because, obviously, nothing has to do with the Galician Atlantic façade, for example, with the province of Lleida; it has nothing to do with a perfectly structured system of cities with another one that needs some means of communication. I believe that those who know this are the Galicians; the minister is Galician, but she has no autonomous power, she has state power, but she has no autonomous power. Therefore, I repeat, for me your approach is an approach that goes in line with these progressive solutions, being clear where we are going to get one day; despite the fact, we will get that you will have to pay for circulation and you will have to pay whenever you contaminate, congest, and do not make use of sustainable mobility systems. Whenever you propose a solution of the kind you propose, we have also done so for the Catalan case on more than one occasion, in some cases successfully, it is good to bring solutions, but knowing what the final objectives are. I would like us to have the opportunity, I repeat, when we debate the road bill, to raise these issues, because these issues are important for the future. In any case, I congratulate you on your initiative, but I am afraid you will remain in the drawer of oblivion. However, it will have allowed us all to discuss an issue that is as interesting as it is crucial. That is why, from our point of view, you, Madam Member, deserve to be applauded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u31	Thank you, Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to some of you in your recovery. For the Socialist Group, the AP-9 is a strategic path for the country, especially as regards mobility; mobility not only by the Community of Galicia but also for the connection with Portugal and in the future, through the AP-8, or A-8, for the introduction throughout the European continent. Undoubtedly, the Atlantic Highway is a highway that constitutes for the Galician community a vertebrate axis of Galicia with the connection of ports, but also of large cities and airports such as those of Alvedro, Lavacolla, Peinador, or ports of general interest such as San Ciprián, A Coruña, Marín, Villagarcía de Arosa and Vigo. Also, in turn, the connection with the Portuguese border through tunnels. Its nature, if we stick to article 4 of the Roads Act, is of a state nature, so it is reflected in our legal system, but one thing is the infrastructures - those things with which engineers make structures and invests - and another is mobility. Infrastructure is never an end in itself, it is a means to guarantee connectivity and mobility, a concept that I believe in the Spanish legal system could be clarified and improved. Mobility must always be guaranteed in order to serve citizens and thus contribute to the development of economic activity. The AP-9 is, above all, a big business for the dealership. We can distinguish between public service and profit, and guidance is clearly of profit. I'll give you some data. The operating margin of this motorway makes 22,3 % of the toll - 2014 data - dedicated to the distribution of dividends, which puts the profitability of the business at 14,55 %. Already many companies would like to enjoy such a profitable business, but what this is showing is that the orientation of the highway goes more to the defense of the interests of the concessionaires than to guarantee the mobility fundamentally of those who use it most, which are the Galicians. This is a situation that my group wishes to denounce expressly. In the last few years, tolls have risen nothing more and nothing less than 28% in the comparative framework. We have costs of €19.80 for light vehicles throughout the journey, and €43.55. It is also a big business for the state because the state is receiving around 42 million euros in tax. It is true that of these 42 million euros the state has to invest 31 million euros in conservative maintenance, but there is a net return for the administration of 10 million euros. On this motorway there is a problem that also exists in other administrations and that is that the extension of the Rande bridge is being built, a substantial investment of 143 million euros, 10% of the total value of the motorway. In addition, we are faced with a modified one which has been awarded almost nothing more. This leads us to rethink the equilibrium formulas of public-private collaboration, which are asymmetrical because normally when enlargement occurs who has all the information and, therefore, all the power is the concessionary company. Here we find that a technical rethink is absolutely necessary. By the way, there have been extensions of the concession, the concession is now going to the year 2048. Grant extensions are sometimes made that are not correlated with actual expenditure and that result in improvements in the results account, where all citizens end up paying. I think this is a matter for debate. The infrastructure, I insist, should above all give mobility advantages and distinguish between mobility and construction. The use of article 150.2 of the Constitution is proposed for transfer of title. We understand that this is not the right mechanism because it would lead us to look for an ad hoc, specific law to respond to every problem that arises, apart from the functional approach. This would also lead to legal uncertainty and a proliferation of rules. There is a Law on Roads with a functional scope and, in particular, article 4.2 establishes the mechanism for the transfer of ownership, which is nothing other than the initiation and initiation of a file, the adoption of a real regulatory decree in agreement between the parties and a record of taking possession. Therefore, an organic law is neither the way nor the right tool. Another question is whether the AP-9 - and I say this to the people - meets the requirements for the state to consider it state ownership. Why should I tell him? I say this because without any notice, the president of the Xunta, Mr Núñez Feijoo, has picked him up and promised to take this competition, taking steps, at least theoretically. The intention of the Government of the People's Party on the Xunta is theoretically to achieve the transparency of this motorway; as Mr Núñez Feijoo has said, as in many other things, but he has remained in wet paper because the truth is that he committed himself to bringing the technical committee together five years ago and has not taken a single step in this regard. There was also talk of the AP-53, which the Galicians know very well. Once again the People's Party makes promises with one goal: to win votes and, as we saw yesterday, sometimes unfounded promises... [[Mr Ayala Sánchez makes gestures to the speaker]] Yes, yes, Mr. Ayala. Unfounded promises and deceptions to citizens, also in Galicia, end up being penalized. This is what happened. Electoral promises cannot be made only with party interest, in order to win votes outside the interests of citizens, which is what has happened. I would also like to say that in the proposed law article 1.3 and the additional third provision lead the State administration to a situation that is frankly compromised because the State - which we are all - sees itself in the obligation to take risks generated by a concessionaire under the guardianship of the autonomous community. What they are putting forward in this article is: Listen, we assume ownership and then if you have to rescue the state when it touches, but pay. This is not serious. If that were to happen, it is logical that those who take the competition take the risks. We also understand that there is a notable contradiction in the fourth additional provision, which recognizes the link between AP-9 and the exercise and functions reserved for the State, such as border control; in this case, border control in the passage of Tuy, which is an obvious contradiction. For all that said, and on the basis of the argument I have put forward here, we are going to abstain. I will not be the one to discuss Mr Núñez Feijoo's ability and power to assume that competence. I am an engineer and, after all, he is a lawyer, but we understand that there is clearly a formal procedure. At the same time, I reiterate, as a good friend of mine says, that we must distinguish between mobility and infrastructure for engineers to play. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u33	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to set out the position in the debate on this proposed organic law of the BNG on the transfer of the Atlantic Highway to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, an initiative qualified by this Bureau of Congress in January this year. Indeed, the AP-9 motorway runs between Ferrol and the Portuguese border; the 217-kilometre toll motorway is integrated into the State Road Network. Of course, we agree that it vertebrates the Atlantic axis, links the main economic centers of Galicia and five of the seven largest Galician cities and allows its connection with the rest of the State Road Network. Audasa is the particular concessionaire of the concession administration since 1973, but although this is a toll freeway, there are many toll-free sections, such as the circumvalations of Santiago de Compostela and Pontevedra, the Fene-Ferrol section, the sections of access to A Coruña between Abarca-A Coruña and sections of access also to Vigo. For this reason, and in these points to which I have just referred, traffic is particularly intense. At the end of the last legislature, in November 2005, a royal decree was passed that approved an agreement between the General Administration of the State and Audasa precisely to increase the number of lanes in the AP-9 in the Santiago Norte-Santiago South sections and also to make the link between Cangas and Teis. But that legislature ended without any of these works being planned or launched. And in this legislature the first thing that was done was to analyze that convention of 2011; it was revised and as a result it was seen what was the demand of traffic of the highway, it was properly identified where there were sections that were clearly exceeded and it was a question of seeking solutions to this issue. That is why the first thing was to think about the tariff policy of this motorway, as there were some sections that had a price per kilometre that was substantially very high and very different from the rest of the sections. In December 2012, a new protocol was signed between the concessionary society and the Ministry of Development, which further adapted future transport demands across the corridor to meet the needs of users. And so, in the development of this protocol, today we are no longer talking about words or demonstrations, we are talking about facts. The works of extension of the AP-9 motorway in the Santiago Norte-Santiago Sur sections were tendered and awarded, which is known as the Santiago de Compostela bypass. And the same must be said of the link of Cangas-link Teis and the extension of the bridge of Rande. The implementation of these actions is carried out under this agreement and is budgeted at EUR 218 million. This constitutes a substantial improvement for the flow of medium-, short- and long-distance traffic that uses thousands of users of this motorway every day. These works began at the end of February. At the moment any user who travels along the highway already sees how the works of extension of the bridge are visible in Rande, where 144 million will be invested. Traffic protection gates on both sides of the pillars have been placed these days. Whoever circulates around Santiago already sees that the necessary disassemblies have been started by the machines to make the new lanes adjacent to the current ones, and in the link of Sigüeiro the first structures are already visible. Thus concrete works, concrete actions. In this legislature, this Government also addressed the problem of tolls and, in particular, by means of a royal decree of 8 February 2013, an agreement was established between the Administration and Audasa to establish toll discounts on the Pontevedra-Vigo section. The existing discount was extended to 100 per cent, which was then 25 per cent for return journeys of light vehicles that make the trip and return on the same day in the Pontevedra-Vigo, Pontevedra-O Morrazo, Pontevedra-Vilaboa or Rande-Vigo sections whenever the toll system is used. Well, this bonus has been applied to improve the daily public service, it has had an obvious economic impact, and I give you the data: from February 2013 until 31 December 2014, more than 3.1 million routes, corresponding to 90,000 users, have been improved; and the amount of this bonus amounted in these two years to more than 6.5 million euros that have not had to come out of the pocket of citizens who see themselves and are necessarily forced to use this motorway. And at the moment a new agreement is being processed that will include new actions that will improve the communications and connectivity of the AP-9 corridor in A Coruña and the Pontevedra environment. It has also referred in its intervention to problems of traffic jams and congestion that have occurred on this highway in summer times since time immemorial and that have occurred at all stages of government. Well, this Executive has not stood idly by in the face of these problems, as you said, an information file was opened to Audasa in July last year, but that information file had concrete consequences, it has not been left at all. And what has it been translated into? It has resulted in the implementation of an action plan to minimize traffic incidents during periods of longer transit in AP-9 in the future. In this sense Audasa has been required to carry out works in toll areas and in its accesses for the amount of 8 million euros: 2.2 million for the toll area of Curro, which is already very advanced; 3.3 million euros to extend the toll in Teo and 2.3 million for the toll area of Alba. As a result, not only demonstrations are now taking place, concrete actions are being taken, in addition to a strong inspection. A few days ago the minister said that with this subject, the dealership, no jokes and I repeat it here today. He raised the criterion relating to the request for the transfer of AP-9. Obviously, AP-9 is part of the network of roads of state interest. We are talking about a motorway integrated into a trans-European transport network. It is a continuous network that regularly supports long-distance traffic, which connects the main Galician nuclei with the different territories of Spain and with the European Union, which has continuity in Portugal, through another highway, which is the A-55, and with the international bridge of Tuy with the IP-1, Lisbon-Oporto-Frontera. It is therefore part of a first-class European itinerary, such as the so-called Lisbon-Dublin Emerald Network. It connects the ports of general interest of the State: A Coruña, Ferrol, Vilagarcía, Marín and Vigo, and connects the three airports of Galicia: Lavacolla, Peinador and Alvedro. Therefore, it plays a fundamental role in all these types of connections. As has been pointed out by another spokesman who has preceded me in the use of the word, the current Law on Roads, in its article 3, defines the roads that make up the state network, is done on the basis of the criterion of what is known as itineraries of general interest and these are those that can have border interest, European interest and that can also serve ports and airports of general interest. Mrs Pérez, the Government has just approved a reform of this Road Act in the Council of Ministers. It is currently in parliamentary procedure for tabling amendments. It defines, in two new articles 4 and 5, what are the roads that make up the general network of the State, the criteria according to which they are defined and also what are the new roads of the basic network and of the supplementary network. Well, we believe that this is the framework in which you must, through amendment, consider the criterion that you hold and that you consider that this is a road that should be part of an autonomous network to the extent that you believe it fits within that assumption. That is the framework and not the framework of a proposal for an organic law whose adoption, moreover, for the procedural moment in which it is presented, with a parliamentary term about to end, would be virtually impossible. I conclude by saying - in response to what a spokesman who has spoken before me in the use of the word - that at the stage of government of the Socialist Party - which is very long, with the governments of Don Felipe González and those of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero - many royal decrees have been approved that had as their sole object or extend the time limits of granting this highway or increase the prices of the tolls. Now we are talking about decisions that go in the opposite direction: that the works materialize not only on paper and that the tolls are improved, as I have just explained. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u35	Thank you, Mr. Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u36	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. Firstly, that of the People's Parliamentary Group on the recognition of the strategic nature of high speed and the completion of the planned actions. For your presentation and defence, Mr Ayala has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is bringing to the House a debate that we believe is essential at this time. Much has been said, much has been frivolized, much has been handled about investments and high-speed railway policy with electoral intentions. We believe that we cannot play with such important, strategic issues that make up the long-term development of a country like Spain. The Group of the European People's Party therefore urges that we recognise the strategic nature of high-speed investments - something you agree with - and that we maintain the level of investment necessary to bring about as soon as possible the planned high-speed connections - in what you have also always agreed - with three basic objectives: to promote and guarantee territorial cohesion, to activate economic growth and to generate more employment; competitiveness, wealth and employment. High speed is not a whimsical commitment of the People's Party, no. It is configured as a transport infrastructure that provides coverage and response to all strategic interests in the presence: cohesion and accessibility for citizens, tourism as the first national industry, safe, clean and environmentally friendly transport, an alternative beneficial to the plane and the road, contributing to the logistic strategy of the transport of goods. It is false that vertebration and accessibility harm the territories. In all strategic interests there is no doubt that they benefit territories and citizens and are fundamental to global development. In Spain all the territories and all the citizens are the first. We are not going to allow others to try to make Spanish first, second or third. [[Applauds]] No one discusses the role of transport infrastructure as a catalyst for economic growth. When deciding on the destination of many investments that generate skilled employment, the existence or not of quality transport infrastructure is a fundamental and decisive element. And this is especially important in a country where tourism is driving economic growth, being the AVE key lever for the development of quality tourism, so offering the possibility of having many capitals connected through a high-speed network makes us especially competitive. The AVE is the mode of transport of the 21st century and in Spain the most efficient train is precisely that of high speed, because it reduces travel times, because of its lower operating and environmental costs and because it is much more attractive compared to other modes of transport such as road or plane. The pharisaic game of cost that some argue must be denounced. Firstly, because a government cannot fail to assess the social profitability and the induced benefits of establishing an infrastructure and, secondly, because no non-concessional public infrastructure reaches the point of equilibrium of profitability; all this without forgetting the reactivation of civil works and the tax return of 56% of the investment. Our high-speed network not only allows us to capture demands in other ways, as I said, but also induces new travelers for the conventional train. There is therefore an increase in the value of the entire rail transport network. The acceptance of citizens for service, comfort and also the price is more than obvious. Just look at the growth in 2014 and what is happening in 2015. The challenge is to get an invincible offer for the citizen who can choose a mode of transport because it is the one that provides the best and best service and it is also affordable. In other words, the citizen chooses him free because he is the best and because he can pay for it, not because there is no other, as socialists of directed and state economy like. The People's Party government is betting on all this and also on inter-rail competitiveness, that is, proximity trains and mid-distance trains connected with the large high-speed corridors, which has already produced a significant increase in the number of passengers: 465 million passengers transported Renfe in 2014. Our high-speed model is today a reference all over the world and is evidence that the most developed countries are evolving at high speed. Then we won't be so wrong. Again Spain, as it has done so so many times over the centuries, is a pioneer and mirror of other countries. Well, the strategic nature of high-speed is already recognized in the Pitvi, with which the Government has made an unequivocal bet to keep the high-speed network growing and reaching more points in our geography sensibly, planning without oversizes or overcosts and anticipating its financing. That is why, when we also begin the process of the bill to reform the Railway Sector Act, which strengthens the mechanisms for rigorous planning, it is appropriate for the Congress of Deputies to support this initiative, which seeks to guarantee the high-speed train for all our territories. I will refer briefly to the amendments tabled, pointing out that we cannot accept them because this is a global declaration to guarantee our high-speed network and we must not blur it with specific issues, and less so with what the Catalan Group intends to stop high-speed once Catalonia has the best and most complete services in Spain. That is not exactly called solidarity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u38	Thank you, Mr. Ayala. Firstly, let us look at the amendments. There are three interventions by the Joint Group. Firstly, Mr Álvarez Sostres has the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to subscribe to the Group of the European People's Party's explanatory statement on high speed, 100 per cent. Indeed, the railway bet was a strategic decision of Mr Aznar's Government within the framework of the ITP 2000-2007, with a horizon of 2010 and justified by the conviction that the resulting investment in a framework of financial stability would result, as has happened, in levels of security and comfort typical of travel times advantageous to all people. I also subscribe to the benefit for Spain of connecting with Europe and avoiding large territorial isolations, liberating the conventional network for the traffic of goods that requires not speed but incessantity. From a technological point of view, there is no less impetus for the various companies involved in the manufacture and development of these infrastructures. However, Mr Ayala, I feel a perplexity that I transfer to you as a proposing group and that I have already exposed in a PNL on 14 January 2014 and in other initiatives in which I manifest, without any doubt, something obvious: the high-speed line Madrid-Gijón ends in León and not in Asturias, as planned. And that is not a point situation, Mr Ayala; it is an essential situation for Asturias. The indicators, beyond the deadlines, are the track exchanger that exists in León and not in Pola de Lena, the sac base station of León or the informative study of the Oviedo-Leon-Gijón section of a few days ago in which they have forgotten to design the Pola de Lena-Oviedo section. Do we have to levitate to get to Oviedo? Apparently, yes. With high performance, that's right. This is the king of euphemisms, Mr. Ayala. Why this government and the PSOE with historical complicity...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u39	Mr. Alvarez Sostres, your time is up. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: I am finished, Madam President. ... prevent Asturias from having high speed as planned fifteen years ago? This is the meaning of my amendment referring to the last stage that I have just mentioned, which aims to prevent this wrong action and in any case...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u40	Mr. Alvarez Sostres, finish. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: I'm done. In any case we will always be in favour of high speed not only for Asturias, but for those communities that are inserted in a plan of railway modernity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u41	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ayala, if I had time, I would argue in detail against some of the paragraphs of auto-bomb and self-explanation of the explanatory statement of your initiative, but as I do not have it, I will focus on the paragraph that we will have to vote on. We share that the railway connections already planned and in some cases partly executed end as soon as possible, and we share it above all for the part that touches us. In this sense, the continuous cuts in the public spending ceiling cannot be used as a pretext to slow down or delay even further in the case of Galicia infrastructure which is already advanced and in which a significant amount of public resources have already been invested, but which, above all, are already years behind schedule. But in addition to sharing that what has been started must be completed without further delay, we miss the fact that the same diligence is not applied to railway infrastructure in general, to traditional or basic railway infrastructure for a territory, to which they are not of high speed. We have often denounced here the abandonment and lack of investment in our internal rail network, the suppression of services and frequencies, the closure of stations, the lack of modernisation of rolling stock, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, ultra defence and the consideration of high-speed strategy cannot be detrimental to the improvement of the basic rail network. Colloquially, we cannot dress one saint to undress another, especially in a territory like Galician, which is one of the few in the state that has no closeness. Ladies and gentlemen, giving strategic character to high-speed investments has to necessarily and also inexcusably give the highest - the highest - priority to security, and after what happened in Angrois in 2013 has no explanation that the Atlantic axis is inaugurated in Galicia practically at the limit of the legal deadline before the start of the campaign and is done without the maximum security system, the Ertms...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u43	Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u44	I'm done, Madam President. And in addition, with a report from Renfe's security department on the table and sent to the drivers warning them at least nine unique points. Strategic, Mr Ayala, also implies maximum security, at least to our understanding. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u46	Eighty thousand users without close proximity in Catalonia last week, the paralyzed service and the majority of trains stopped at the stations, this is the train of the people and is its reality: a real chaos, tens and hundreds of citizens who use these trains every day and who have to make their way on foot because the convoys will always burst for lack of information constantly, delays day and day also, problems of health, and what is worse, problems of safety as well. And do you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, claim that today we recognize the strategic character of high speed in Spain? Ladies and gentlemen, touch the ground with your feet, many kilometres of small passenger AVE, there are no excuses, high speed does not benefit companies or society. The high-speed runners in Spain are not profitable and more with their centralist radial conception. Neither the indirect benefits are profitable, nor the benefit of time savings, nor the decongestion of roads, nor the avoided costs of air travel compensate for the billion-dollar investment made. With 2,500 kilometers in service and another 1,200 kilometers in construction, the Spanish network is the second largest in the world, only behind the Chinese network; the number of travelers who use it is far from the register of other countries, we talk about 11,800 passengers per operating kilometer of AVE in Spain compared to 158,000 in Japan, for example, 61,400 in France. I'm finishing up. There is no justification, ladies and gentlemen, neither economic nor productive. It has only been sought and pursued, and it continues to be done, the political revenue and this is a great mistake. Investment in large and expensive works such as EVAs in all provinces cannot be prioritized while urban and inter-urban mobility and the recovery of degraded infrastructure are marginalized. The right to mobility is an intrinsic part of our society and public transport is the tool that must guarantee this right. In short, an egalitarian component for citizens, regardless of their place of residence and a backbone of economic activity.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u47	Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u48	I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the conventional train, the people's train, is of a strategic nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too am going to talk about neighbourhoods and I am going to do this by appealing to the duty that we all have of solidarity with these citizens who every day live a real calvary in the evil so-called neighbourhood service to get to their job. There are 1,400,000 people between the cities of Madrid and Barcelona every day using the service of proximity. I will not refer, because there is no time, to the last incident that occurred in Barcelona and motivated by the bad state of the computer network. It is absolutely surprising to us that a non-legislative proposal is now being put forward, urging the Government to invest much more in high speed when it seems to us that the social need, the social railway, is the regional and nearby railway. We have therefore drawn up an amendment, which is in fact an amendment to the whole, which says: The Congress of Deputies urges the Government to address a profound change in the strategic priorities of investing in the railway system for the benefit of investments in the services of proximity, regional and freight transport, thus prioritizing social and productive railways in the face of the almost absolute predominance of current investments in the high-speed network. Why are we introducing this? Because, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you know this, but in these four years of the People's Party government, according to the Ministry, 14,425 million have been invested in high speed. This is a very important figure, but, however, 169.2 million have been invested between the closeness of Madrid and Barcelona, i.e. 1.1 %. What our motion says is that we find it very good to finish and complete the high-speed network, but please solidarity with these citizens who suffer every day to get to their job. Give him 2 %, 3 %, 4 % or 5 %. We're going to multiply by five and we're not going to let anything down. It is an issue - this is the case, Mr Ayala - to appeal to solidarity with these people. By the way, the one who speaks to you is an advocate of the railway, of everyone, of the high-speed railway and of the good railway services. However, at the moment there are important doubts about the economic effects of high speed, not on our part. An organization called Fedea, based in the Castellana in Madrid, shows that the benefits of high-speed services are captured by the central nodes, which promotes the concentration of activities in large cities. Fedea says the impact on industrial activity has been irrelevant, nor has it affected localization decisions. It concludes this study by saying that high speed has neither accelerated industrial deconcentration nor encouraged economic decentralization, and that its effects on interpersonal equity are regressive. This says Fedea, but if you want to go to the Court of Auditors of France, the French Court of Auditors, which last October published a hard argument against high speed, with a significant title: The high speed rail: a model carried beyond its relevance - The high speed rail: a model carried beyond its convenience -. One could read, among other things: The court finds that the TGV represents a small part of the displacements in France, which is much more used by the rich and, especially, by the Parisians. I don't think this has anything to do with Catalonia, friend Ayala. I sincerely believe that a profound change must be made in the Spanish railway policy, giving priority to the neighbourhoods, the Galician neighbourhoods, which demand it, the Valencian neighbourhoods, the proximity of Madrid, the proximity of Asturias, the proximity of Barcelona, the proximity of Andalusian cities and the Andalusian regions. This is a duty we have and a question of pure, simple and true solidarity. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u51	Thank you, Mr. Macias. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gordo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ayala, with your last refusal to the amendment, I am sorry to say that you are doing a weak favour, because the amendment you are doing is putting numbers, quantifying and, at the same time, integrating the high-speed train, the AVE, into the Spanish rail system. Therefore, your exercise is nothing more than an exercise of political hypocrisy, as one of my companions said this morning, because you do nothing but promise but do nothing; you promise investments that you do not carry out afterwards. I tell you more, with this GNP that we are debating here today, the People's Parliamentary Group starts the 2015 election campaign, although the truth is that it started before, because this initiative was presented in the middle of the autonomous and municipal elections by the spokesman, with the intention of making a wink at the citizens living in large cities that the AVE will arrive. By the way, it could have started with yours, which has systematically failed. Therefore, we are faced with an electoral promise that citizens have rejected massively, they reject a way of doing politics that conceives of infrastructures not as a guarantee of mobility and connectivity but as instruments to win votes. I was also surprised by the explanatory statement. You patriminate everything: the development of high speed, the internationalization of the economy... They just have to say: Spain is ours. Too bad. When I was reading the PNL at my home in Segovia the other day, I imagined the NO-DO: as protagonists to Azar and Rajoy, with an entourage formed by the previous ministers, by Mrs Pastor and also followed by the achievers, to get everything that interests them. How you long for the past! A major investment effort has been made in recent years, and this has also had an impact on the railway system. The AVE has been an important acquittal to the development of the railway, which was forgotten. The European Union is committed to rail as a means of sustainable transport while avoiding congestion. We need a competitive rail transport, between 300 and 600 kilometers, as an alternative to the car and the plane, and this gives us the AVE in long distances, but also closeness. There is something else, our commitment is to provide efficiency to the system, to optimize first the existing and then to complete the connections of all corridors - and of the north-west corridor - within the framework of the trans-European transport network with more than closeness. We must go for interoperability - key -, intermodality, improved connections with cities, being aware - and this is evidenced not only by the Fedea report but also by the Court of Auditors - that there are lines that have difficult sustainability. The Court of Auditors' report speaks only of sustainability Madrid-Sevilla. We will not breastfeed because we believe in the solidarity of the network, but this should lead us to a reflection: that in planning we must be, for the future, very rigorous. There are investments that are redundant, with little use and are forced to make feasibility projects that lead us to optimize. You have not given me numbers; we have asked you in the amendment, to put numbers, I have been asking you repeatedly to value the Pitvi. We ask you to state of execution of the works, method of financing, planned timetable; I repeat, I ask you. Since you haven't given me numbers I'm going to give them to you. Do you know how much money is needed to tackle the Pitvi approach at high speed? You do know that because I said it the other day: 140 billion. Of those 140 billion, the works that are started, still to be completed, require 31 billion; to this must be added the works that are collected in the Pitvi planned and uninitiated, which amount to 93 billion, and the integration in the cities, which is 16 billion. Total, $140 billion. With an average investment, such as that made by the People's Party at this time of 3.5 billion, it takes forty years.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u53	Mr. Gordo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u54	I'm finishing up. Where are you guys gonna get the money from? Because ADIF has a debt of 18 billion, which has grown with you by 32%, and the value of the entire high-speed network that is running is 32 billion. We agree with the maximum programme, but please, the Spaniards deserve respect; do not deceive them with a single objective, which is an electoral objective. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u55	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. On a position-setting basis, Mrs Sánchez Robles, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Macias, I was very surprised to hear you call for a profound change in the Spanish railway policy, giving priority to closeness, when you have been a fervent advocate of high speed. Of course, until he's had his own. I think, at least, it sounded pretty ugly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, what a pleasant surprise! Welcome to our thesis on high speed! Surprising coincidence with our speech! The fact is that the full reading of the initiative has left me puzzled and I think the same has been said here. I didn't believe what my eyes saw. Mr Ayala's minimum has been the most, because, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken three and a half years of Parliament to fall off the horse, three long years. It's said soon, huh? Three long years in which you have despised our arguments, these kinds of arguments, those that you have used in your initiative and in your speech and voted not - I repeat, not - to each and every one of the initiatives we have put forward to try to boost Basque high speed. They have had to wait to feel the drafters of their parliamentary hegemony to clarify their speech, to talk about strategic projects, planning, prioritization and work in terms of project, to talk about economic-social profitability and, not only that, but also have proclaimed it grandiosely in their upcoming draft law of the railway sector pointing out one before and one after. I will tell you that I have wondered, when I have listened to you and when I have read the initiative, what they have been doing so far. I would not say this to you bluntly, but it offends my intelligence and I am sure that some Members of this House, because we have repeated it to the point of satiety, have asked you machaconically: prioritise, plan and work in terms of project, in terms of economic and social profitability. Be rigorous, prioritize, plan and work in terms of project. And what have we achieved? Evasive, lack of transparency, because, as has been said, we have not been able to see either a timetable, a planning or a study of economic and social profitability, nothing at all, and we have also - as I said - obtained a systematic non-compliance with our initiatives. It is true that there has recently been a commitment of the minister, laconic and uncertain, because we lack any support that can confirm it, that the Basque Y will be completed by 2020, but of the connection Burgos-Vitoria, of the connection of Euskadi with the plateau we know nothing. Therefore, today they present themselves in this House with what I said, Diego saying, standing also in the visionaries, in the creators, in the adalids of high speed and looking at false medals that they have never achieved, as if nothing had happened, as if these Members of Parliament had no memory and, worse, as if the citizens had neither. It is noted that the shoe tightens them, Mr Ayala, it is noticed; it is noted that they feel threatened by the probable advances by the right of other political formations and also that it tightens Europe, which has already warned that it will not release a euro if Spain does not do things as it should, Spain and other countries. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has said that the irrational management of the projects and works of the TAV in the state is over; that the sections executed in the middle of nowhere, which go nowhere; that the projects drafted without funding for their execution are over; that the lines put in place with empty stations and trains running without travellers are over; that the partisan clientism is over. In the final line of the legislature, in the final line and on the eve of the municipal and outlying elections, the president of the government, Mr Rajoy, as a paratrooper of little expertise, appears by Euskadi and in the interview to a local written medium of wide dissemination, which I will not quote, places the following headline: If there is a necessary and justified VAS it is that of Bilbao. Sincerely, ladies and gentlemen, it sounds to me as if I were having a hard time, it seems to me to be a proverbial defach - I repeat, proverbial -. In case you have forgotten, I will remind you that you have been falling at the pace of military march every and every one of the proposals that this group, the Basque Group, has put forward with the sole will to achieve agreements, consensus and an orderly and rational development of high speed, because we firmly believe in the strategic character of this infrastructure. To show a button, in May 2013 during the debate of an inquiry he said: Twenty-four years have passed since the start of the project and construction of the high-speed line Vitoria-Bilbao-San Sebastián-French border, known as the Basque Y, a project that is part of the Atlantic branch of priority project number 3 - I repeat, 3- of the European Union, which in turn will give continuity to the Madrid-Valladolid-French border line. I do not need to remind you - I said at that time - of the enormous significance that this project...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u57	Mrs. Sánchez Robles, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u58	I'm finishing up, President. I don't usually stretch. Excuse me a minute. I do not need to remind you of the enormous importance this project has for Euskadi as a strategic tool for the development and promotion of new opportunities, and this is because the value of transport goes far beyond transport itself. He said many more things, but he continued: However, we saw impotent successive delays in the start-up date of this infrastructure that should have been completed according to the initial planning in 2010, etc. The motion resulting from this interpellation was rejected, our speech entered them by one ear and came out by the other, and today we are surprised by a new dawn, they have seen the light. Oh!, the importance of high speed seems ideal to me. I'm done. It has been a shame, a lost legislature for consensus also in this matter, to advance among all...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u59	Mrs. Sánchez Robles, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u60	I conclude, really. Two more sentences. We sincerely believe that politics in democracy requires generosity and humility and more if a broad parliamentary majority is available. It wasn't your case. They're late, and they're too late. It is also true that today it was necessary to apply that of hands that do not give what you expect and pay them with the same currency, but we, unlike you, are going to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez Robles. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u62	Thank you, Madam President. It seems to me that my group is one of the two in this House who has always been critical of the AVE and of course we are not going to change our view, because in addition all the data that is being known - there is enough - is proving what we have always maintained. This, far from being a wonderful investment that then multiplies wealth, is rather one of the causes of the increase of public debt in Spain and the only thing it does is increase the debt, with very few benefits for the general interest. Before going on, I must say that it is true that I also use the AVE whenever I can because it is a very comfortable and great train and communicates very well with the cities - some of them, very few - but that does not change the underlying fact: whether or not the AVE has an economic strategic interest, as the spokesman of the People's Group has argued. Of course everyone thinks it's great to have a Ferrari or a Rolls-Royce, the thing is, can we afford it? Because you know how to drive and have a card does everyone have to have a Ferrari and a Rolls-Royce and if they are not being deprived of a fundamental right, or rather have the right to have a public and private transport, if they prefer, that will help them to have the best quality of life? Here's the thing. One of the most curious things about this non-legislative proposal is that we are invited to vote for a value judgement, because it is said that the AVE must recognize its strategic character. Why should we recognize him? Where's the demonstration? What evidence do you have? Bring numbers. Is it true or is it not true that there is not a single profitable line of AVE in Spain today and that probably, according to the most competent economic studies, it will take a long time to have one? It's not enough just for operating expenses, don't cheat, get the numbers out. Where is the amortization of the investment? Doesn't that count? We have invested a huge amount in AVE in Spain since 2010. I am of the opinion - not only is it mine, much less, but people who know about this much more than I do - that precisely much of the crisis in Spain is due to investments in infrastructure that have contributed nothing. Therefore, as they have contributed nothing to economic development, they have resulted in unemployment, economic backwardness, poverty, etc. That's not a strategic investment, that's wasteful. As with that absurd idea that all provinces had to have not only a university but also an airport, and if it was better international, Spain is full of airports to run rabbits. Has that been strategic? Was that an investment in the general interest? Does this make it easier for citizens to live in Spain because they have an airport where they don't land? The same applies to the lines of the AVE. Precisely because I use the AVE a lot, I have seen - like all those who use it - how there are stations that were built with a good desire to customerize, to satisfy certain mayors, or speculative, because there were expectations that then have never been fulfilled of urban development on land that until then were nothing but field; AVE stations where hardly goes up and down nobody, therefore barely stops trains. What about that investment? How did it help? How did you articulate the territory? I do not see that this increases social or territorial cohesion, I do not see that it creates wealth and employment; on the contrary, I think it detracts public investment resources from the productive economy, which is what we had to worry about. Of course, your claim that it's an alternative to the road is almost to fool us. Everyone knows that in Spain the rail transport of goods is very low, that this also causes serious economic problems of competitiveness and road maintenance; however, the main routes of AVE have been made only for passengers. In addition, they have been made at a price that from a social point of view is selective, because there are a lot of people in Spain who cannot pay the EVA as a usual means of transport. So to present the AVE as a usual transport system, alternative to the plane and the railway, does not cease to be a toast to the sun that is also very expensive. I'm not telling you anything about putting it as a right anymore. AVE is not a right, it is a transport system. The right is to an effective, quality, competitive public transport, but not to AVE in particular, to an international airport or to anything like it. Finally, I believe that this is a flight forward precisely in the kind of public investment policy that has led us to the economic hole we are in. There is no purpose to the amendment; it continues to insist on what has been sustained and to do all these years with a very serious damage to the general interest, the country's economy, the effective equality of citizens and other values that are far above the great and magnificent thing that is to have a first-rate AVE and to be the second-largest country in the world on AVE lines, which is something that everyone looking at us is crossings, because no one can understand it. He cannot understand this because he has no justification for a country with the economic problems of Spain to continue to invest in luxury transport systems, while ignoring the proximity, the half-distance trains and also the strategic axes of Europe, such as the famous Mediterranean or Atlantic axis, which has been discussed here so many times and which are so little advanced, which would have a positive impact on the economic development of the country: to overcome unemployment, to create employment and everything else. All this you are doing is like a transport plan that a group of boring aristocrats in your casino decides because you think how great it would be to travel from Madrid to anywhere in Spain on a luxury train, without realizing that most people in Spain can't even afford a ticket. That's an unpleasant reality, but that's the reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u63	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mrs De las Heras.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u64	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we have to ask ourselves is why the People's Parliamentary Group is now presenting this non-legislative proposal at the end of the parliamentary term. It is not difficult to answer the question, Mr Ayala, if we take into account the latest reports - already mentioned here - of the Foundation for Applied Economic Studies, Fedea, and of the Court of Auditors which question the economic profitability of high speed in our country, and less if we add to that the statements of the emerging political force which declares itself as the new defender of the interests of economic and financial powers and threatens to squander years of hegemony at the political level of the Spanish right. There we go. The point is that the latest analysis reports to which I have referred on the necessity and profitability of high speed in our country are, in our opinion, correct and have been put forward for quite some years by social organizations, citizens, environmentalists, trade unions and politicians, without therefore being given any importance by the People's Party or the Socialist Party. It is now, when economic and financial powers use their reports to question the profitability of high speed - always from a purely economic perspective - when you see the ears to the wolf and ask to declare the strategic character of high speed infrastructures. Therefore, the analysis is coincidental but the solutions and actions that are required are very different. In the face of the defense of a social and public rail transport that we have been doing for some years, economic and financial powers no longer see a parasitic business of public investment in the construction of more and more high-speed infrastructures in our country. Now profitability, the business niche, is focused on privatization and the problem is not that the People's Party does not agree on this - which is totally - but that it does not have the capacity to create another economic model that, according to its vision, creates wealth and employment other than the construction of more and more infrastructures. That's his problem. So we can clearly see what is the model of the railway sector that the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group that supports it are defending. In this regard, the draft law on the railway sector, which is now in the process of being processed, generally proposes the consolidation of a process of deterioration of public competition in the railway sector in order to transfer the profitable business to the private sector. The text calls for the privatization of railway infrastructure through the entry of various administrators and is worryingly ambiguous in defending the right of citizens to use public railways through public service applications. To this we have to add the already completed fragmentation of Renfe and the division of ADIF. The Plural Left is not going to tire of repeating that the excessive high-speed bet is a misconception, a disaster for our country, even more so when cuts have occurred such as those we have noticed in fundamental social state items; items that today would have a greater positive impact on growth and employment by promoting equality. If we really want to bet on the railway as a priority mode of transport, we cannot continue to do so, Mr Ayala and the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because of the high speed when it has already been shown to be an elitist and unprofitable transport at the economic, social and environmental levels. A Government that takes care of the needs of the majority must prioritize proximity and high performance against high speed and bet on freight transport. For that, you have it very easy. All they have to do is look at the data that support the obvious positive effects on investment, growth, employment and the comparative advantages that these investments bring against high speed in social and environmental matters. We therefore believe that we must focus on maintaining existing infrastructures, on security, as has been said here, and on intermodality. All this has to be done from a strong public sector as a single guarantee that investments will focus precisely on that, guaranteeing the right to sustainable mobility and translating them into stable and quality jobs, reversing not only economic but also social and environmental benefits.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u65	Mrs. De las Heras...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u66	I'm done, President. Of this, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Ayala, you do not want to speak, so today we will vote against it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u67	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. Mr Ayala, with regard to the amendments tabled, I believe that none is allowed.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u68	Yes, Madam President, I have already announced that we are not going to admit them.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u69	Thank you. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF CARE AND WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN' And men. [[File number 162/001201]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u70	We shall now proceed to the following non-legislative proposal, in this case by the Socialist Group, on the distribution of care and equal pay between women and men. Mrs Monton has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic situation in which this Government has placed women is unsustainable. It must rectify, correct the serious setbacks that have occurred in this legislature and eliminate the gaps between men and women; the first is the gap between their rhetoric and reality. To get out of this situation, today we present a non-law proposal on the sharing of care and equal pay between women and men. The distribution of hours of work, wages, pensions and, therefore, of living opportunities continues to be profoundly unequal. It is a historical deficit, but in this legislature inequality has been triggered. Women are the great ones punished by the policies of cuts of the PP, expelled from the labour market, precarious those who still retain their jobs and bearing the burden of the care of elderly, dependents, boys, girls, free work that is neither valued nor accounted for. In this legislature we have seen how the wage gap increases for work of equal value and how the chances of receiving a decent pension are reduced. For the first time in 40 years, the female labour force is falling and the employment rate is falling, i.e. less employment, more unemployment and a wage gap of 24%, reaching 39 in the case of pensions. Women work more than men, even though the president hasn't found out yet. To ensure, as Rajoy does, that many women decide to take care of children because they want and do not work as much as a man is barbarity. Let's see if the president finds out that we have more work for women, what we lack is employment. Let's see if you know once you take care of it is work; that is, work for free because your Government has forced women to bear the burden of their cuts in services, dependency, education or health. [[Applauds]] Who will believe Mr. Rajoy is doing all that work if, for example, he has eliminated more than five hundred school eaters? What do you think? Who's in charge of picking up the kids at school, making the food and taking care of them all that time? Isn't that Mr. Rajoy's job? Of course it is, free work that 80% women do. We already know that the President of the Government prefers to account for prostitution rather than domestic and care work in the gross domestic product, which, by the way, would raise that gross domestic product by 50%, according to a 2012 study by BBVA. His rhetoric doesn't change reality. This government does not speak of unemployment, but citizenship does. Doesn't care look like work to the president? We do. We aim to ensure that men and women are on an equal footing in the labour market, and that has two pillars: to charge the same and to take care of the same, a law on equal pay and a law on the distribution of care. Paid work is a fundamental pillar for equality, but only when it is compatible with shared responsibility; when it allows women to have time for learning, for promotion, for recycling; when it provides income for a decent life; when women are given decent treatment in the labour market. If not, we are faced with the big scam of the traditional model, which for the new model of society we want no longer serves. We need an economy of equality, without high rates of female unemployment, without precariousness. It no longer serves the temporality of women, the punishment for being mothers, the truncated professional careers. It's no good anymore. According to María Ángeles Durán, for every hundred hours of employment it takes one hundred and twenty - seven hours to maintain our welfare state. It is hours that are not paid, those that the President of the Government does not even see, the free hours that women give or, rather, that are stolen from us. If women endure all domestic and care work; if the Government continues to cut and transfer to women the burden of care, the same is a utopia. For all these reasons, we reject the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party. We talk about the lives of women, whether they have children or not, of women as individuals; and for the PP, they only count for their reproductive capacity. Tell me: If this GNP were about jobs and wages for the entire population, would they also have tried to introduce their family plan model as an amendment? For you, women are synonymous with family. I say simulation because this family plan has little forgets, like one in three under 16 years of age already lives below the poverty line in Spain. So, it's a plan of what, to support what? Please be serious, that's all right. We demand decency from this government. Do you know what Emilia Pardo Bazán said? All women conceive ideas, but not all conceive children. The human being is not a fruit tree that is only cultivated by the harvest. I was saying it in the 19th century and you, in the 21st century, have not yet understood it. It ended up ruling against women as the PP has been doing throughout the legislature. We endorse the United Nations concept of substantive equality, turning the nominal equality of our laws into real equality, and to achieve it we must act in three areas: correcting the socio-economic situation in which this Government has placed women, combating stereotypes and all forms of gender-based violence and working to strengthen the representativeness and participation of women. To achieve substantive equality, it is not only necessary to do more, but to do better. In addition to what I have already mentioned, we want to incorporate measures to ensure co-responsibility, including equal, non-transferable and compulsory maternity and paternity leave, and a republic of educational and social services for childcare. Transparency in companies will also be established. We're proposing what the United Nations calls a data revolution...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u72	Mrs. Monton.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u73	Yeah, ten seconds. ... statistical transparency to identify where inequalities are caused, in many cases multiple inequalities that women endure. In this revolution it is included to conduct regular surveys on the uses of time, a work that began by the socialist government and which the People's Party has destroyed. They are measures with a clear objective: to break with the trapping rhetoric of the PP, to achieve substantive equality for women, to collect the same and to take care of the same in order to achieve a new social model based on an economy of equality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Monton. For the defence of the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u75	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group today advocates in plenary this non-law proposal on the distribution of care and equal pay between women and men, in which it urges the Government - and take note of this, ladies and gentlemen - to present urgently not one but two bills: one on the use of time and the other on equal pay between women and men and - I read textually - urgently that they guarantee real and effective equality, both in the social distribution of care and domestic work and in the remuneration for the performance of work of equal value and, therefore, that they guarantee gender equality in employment, in their access, in their permanence, in training, in their internal promotion in enterprises, by removing obstacles that prevent or hinder it. In these two bills called for by the Government, measures should be incorporated such as: achieving a 74% employment rate for women; a new articulation of maternity and paternity permits and rights to ensure co-responsibility; improving dependent child benefits; rationalizing Spanish society hourly; a public network of educational and social services for the care and care of children and dependents; positive measures to ensure access to and stability in employment and promotion within enterprises, establishing specific objectives and penalties for non-compliance; measures to improve working conditions for poor workers, mostly women; increasing the inter-professional minimum wage; measures to recognize the long-standing skills of women in the development of their professional careers - without specifying -; a register of companies with the incorporation of the wage data of all their employees, with the aim of separating wage-earning and extra-wage wage-related policies, with the aim of knowing the skills of existing enterprises, information that would be accessible to trade unions and employers' associations; a strategy to incorporate wage-related data of all their employees, by separating wages from wage-related and non-wage wage-related policies, with the aim of knowing the practical skills, information that would be accessible to employers' associations and employers' associations, and employers' associations' associations' associations' associations's. I believe that with this your ladies and gentlemen will have been able to understand the type of proposal that has been put forward, in which, with a three-page explanatory statement, which describes the situation of inequality suffered by women in our country with regard to men, they claim that the Government, immediately and through two laws, will end the secular inequality that has been experienced in Spanish society over more than twenty centuries of history and that over the past thirty-five years we are trying to solve it step by step, moving forward slowly but firmly and decisively. With these kinds of proposals, the Socialist Parliamentary Group demonstrates its conception of the world most peculiar to childhood dream because it cannot even be called utopian because of the simplistic. It mixes in a clumsy way a salad of measures in many areas - training, education, work, business, social security, social services, public administrations - without taking into account the resistance that must be overcome or the paths to enable to achieve that desired equality. The difficulties that bring with them many different rules, many legislative changes, many changes in attitudes are not analysed, are not evaluated, are erased from a pen by means of the indication: The Government will immediately adopt. In the opinion of the proposer group only the greed or ignorance of some is what separates us from that happy world of equality. Gustavo Bueno understands that a thought that does not see the obstacles and contradictions that surrounds us indicates rather the bad faith that entails than the goodwill of the one who practices it. That bad faith is evident in many of the proposals put forward by the Socialist Group on equality. [[Applauds]] Instead of putting forward concrete and well-oriented proposals for real improvement on a concrete plane, it presents this whirlwind of supposedly well-intentioned ideas that make it difficult even a serious analysis in the short time that we count on in this intervention; in short, ladies and gentlemen, what we often call a letter to the Magi. Despite this difficulty, we are going to try to unravel two different plans: firstly, the one that has to do with equal pay, an aspect guaranteed by Organic Law 3/2007. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2012, and not before, the Government has been working on the development of the articles of the law on equality in the field of enterprise and employment, including pay. Precisely three months ago, the first self-diagnosis tool of the gender pay gap has been presented to companies so that they can detect in their organizations the existence or not of such inequality. In addition, a partnership agreement has been signed between the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Equality, in particular with the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, to strengthen control over effective equality between women and men in enterprises. And older people - you know very well, Mrs Montón - the government will soon adopt the Special Plan for Equal Work for Women and Men and against Wage Discrimination 2015-2017. With regard to the other area that we have considered as the main one of the multiple that includes this non-law proposal, which concerns the responsibilities of care, Law 9/2009 of 6 October on extending the duration of paternity leave in cases of birth, adoption or foster care, whose entry into force has been postponed on several occasions, implies an extension of that permit that has been temporarily suspended due to the current time of containment of public expenditure; but I think it is appropriate to remind your gentlemen that in 2014 235,678 paternity leave and 281,151 parental leave were managed, which amounted to a total expenditure of 1,586.70 million euros. It is also convenient to remember many other things that I am not going to mention for lack of time now, but I wanted to say something to you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take into account the work done by the Government to take firm and serious steps in all these areas relating to women's employment, women's entrepreneurship, parental leave, wage inequality, the fight against the gender gap and the preservation of the economic amounts earmarked for pensions. Here I have to tell you, Mrs Montón, that they are increased in the case of older women with two children or more proportionally. That is what President Rajoy really said when he presented the new family plan: that this difference is recognized for the care of minors in the case of women who have stopped or have contributed less in their lives and is now compensated by this progressive increase for those who have had two or more children, but those who have no children do not stop working or reduce their day by family responsibilities. Mrs Montón, of course there are many women who have ideas and not children, and it is clear that we are also concerned about these women, but those women who do not have children do not reduce their working hours due to family responsibilities or do not stop working for it. [[Applauds]] In addition, Mrs Montón, the Government has been concerned about the control of the measures of equality of enterprises, the economic support of local entities with their corresponding influence on the payments of workers in day care centres, in equality offices and other social programmes managed from local entities, unemployment benefits as a whole, the creation of specific benefits for long-term unemployed persons; finally, the maintenance of the welfare State, a State in which the participation of women on equal terms is absolutely crucial and indispensable and which you, with your unpredictability and lack of attention, have put at risk. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u76	Thank you, Mrs. González. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is presenting us with a non-legislative proposal concerning the distribution of care and equal pay for women and men, urging the Government to draw up plans and draft laws, and explaining to us in what direction these projects and plans should go. It seems to us that asking this government at this stage of the legislature is completely impossible, Mrs Monton, especially in view of what this legislature has meant for equality policies, which have been the victims of the decisions that this government has taken and which have slowed the progress of equality. And not only that, but many of its measures have been even discriminatory and have therefore widened the gaps that already existed before these policies. For example, we can talk about gender discrimination in both labour reform and pension reform, in addition to other policies stemming from cuts in education, dependency, health care, etc., which have forced many women to increase their responsibilities in caring for older persons, dependent persons or minors; women who have left work or who have solved the problem with a reduction in working hours. We say women, ladies and gentlemen, because no one misses the fact that, despite the fact that this right can be exercised by men and women, by workers, more than 95 % of the requests for surpluses, reductions or reductions in working hours are made by women. [[The Lord]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that over the past thirty years the number of women in employment has doubled, but, as Mrs Monton has also said, the wage gap is a shameful fact, which is 24 % and in some sectors it is even more than 30 %. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a situation that requires a great deal of debate and a great deal of policy to advance equality, because what can we say in addition to the issue of conciliation, which is an outstanding objective and which has the brake on it at the moment? Not only has progress not been made in relation to co-responsibility, but nothing has been done with regard to the rationalization of wages. In this House, in the Congress of Deputies, at least three reports relating to these matters have been prepared and nothing has been done about them. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that, in order to move forward, equality policies must be a matter that is on the table as a matter of priority, because if we do not come across issues such as those that I have just commented on during the government of Mariano Rajoy over the past four years. Looking at one of the reports on the rationalization of business hours, he recalled data from the OECD report of 2011 which said that Spain needed to strengthen its policies to reconcile work and family, since it was difficult to reconcile the different tasks, resulting in a very low rate of fertilization and a low participation of women in the labour market. Obviously, they are two important problems, although not the only ones, in relation to this discrimination against women and the wage and social gaps that exist and, as evidenced not only by the studies carried out in the Spanish State but also outside it, they are problems that need a solution. The proposal made to us by Mrs Montón in her non-legislative proposal is not only out of time for the time being, given the Government's ability to present something, but also its formulation. Indeed, it seems to be a very ambitious thing and we do not know very well what fit it may have to be made in a proposed law. However, ladies and gentlemen, we share the objectives set out in the proposal and how we believe that those who rule in the next legislature will have to face policies in relation to women's labour rights, the rationalization of hours, wage gaps and the compatibility of work and women's social, political and cultural life, as we believe that the next government will have to work in that direction, we will support this proposal, which Mrs Montón has just defended today. We are going to do this because we agree at the bottom of everything that is said in it, but we do not believe that, in the time that is left for this legislature to end, this government is going to address it, when it has not yet had the will to do so, since it has some legislative difficulties. But the objectives, from our point of view, are clear and those are the ones that we support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Davila. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Tunisia, Mr Taïeb Baccouche, is in the rostrum, whom we warmly welcome and greet. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. I rise to this rostrum to defend, on behalf of the Basque Group, our position on the non-legislative proposal presented by the Socialist Party. It is not the subject that we have in our hands, the serious injustice of the wage gap between men and women, that is obvious and is the result of situations of organic inequality that occur in society, one more but also very serious. The extensive and profuse statement of reasons for extending this non-law proposal sets out the reasons and consequences of the lustres of active or passive discrimination that women have suffered in the world of work, as well as the impediments that social dynamics themselves have imposed on such discrimination; and let us not be fooled, the laws have not always solved the real problems that have occurred historically in this area. Therefore, first of all, I want to say that in my group we do not have the certainty that the best solution to stem these dynamics that are denounced in this text is precisely to generate more legal texts, we believe that the main problem is not the absence of specific legislative frameworks such as those proposed, even if they may be helpful or do not harm. It is also true that what the Socialist Party has proposed - as a colleague has quoted perhaps with softer words - does not cease to be a statement of principles, and point. The main obstacle, in my view, is social, in the broadest sense of the word. That is all, and in response to the Socialist Party's approaches, we agree on almost everything: with the objectives that are being set and with what is being denounced, of course we are. Therefore, we will not be an obstacle to their approval; but, as your ladies and gentlemen are well aware, the gap, if there is somewhere, may be on this other side of the Chamber, although I see no reason for it to be, but surely, and hearing the words of the spokesman for the People's Party, there seems to be. So, and in response to the PSOE's approaches, we agree on almost everything, as I have told you. Obviously, within the measures proposed there is a criticism, which my group makes even more ferocious, of the labor reform that the People's Party led and presented, that it has not solved the problems that it intended to tackle and that it has generated an unjust and discriminatory situation that, in the case of women, has been more severe because it generates situations of de facto discrimination, although the text does not discriminate; the practice of labour reform generates these differences. For example, as mentioned in the explanatory statement presented by the Socialist Party - and I do not know why they did not point that out in the operative part, because for us it is very important - the possibility of overtime in part-time contracts automatically creates an inability to reconcile, so clearly, and perpetuates unfair work situations for so many women. Because it is a vorage, a kind of spiral that makes it asphyxiating for many women to be able to work with lower wages and also with the responsibility to be responsible for caring for family needs. Because to reconcile, ladies and gentlemen, we must first have work, if it is not conciliation, if it is not simply to take care of something that is not paid exclusively. Even if you agree with the majority, not to say in its entirety, of the proposed measures, Mrs Montón, you are not here ex novo, that is, you are not a party of which you have never had power or responsibility, you are not a party of which you have emerged now, but you have ruled until yesterday, as you say. They have also had the opportunity to raise these issues from the governmental responsibilities they have held, and that is why I tell you that it is not always a purely legislative issue. We don't like you sneaking your election program into a non-legislative proposition. As you know, we have participated in the subcommittee that has studied rationalization and conciliation, and there we have seen exactly where the biggest problem is. The system is set up so that existing social models prevent conciliation. Full labour immersion of women in the labour market on equal terms and the habits of misunderstood masculinity prevail in relational systems. If a pregnant woman or a recent mother is a problem, in quotes, for a company, it is that we have nothing to do, that is, we have a problem as a society, because, as the labor, wage and social system is organized, it makes that a problem. Therefore, we will have to analyse why we have this problem that we make that a problem. Conciliation is a consequence of equality, equality as an unquestionable and permanent concept. The rest are only ad hoc circumstances. I would like to end with a beautiful quote that Mrs Gertrude Mongella, who was the President of the Pan-African Parliament, made at the Beijing Conference in 2004, if I am not mistaken, in which she asked that men help in the fight for equality. He said that women had always stood by men in the struggle to abolish slavery, free countries from colonialism, dismantle apartheid and achieve peace. The time has come for men to join women in their struggle for equality. Therefore, when we say that equality is a thing of men it is something that should hold men accountable, in the male concept of the word men.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u80	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u81	Yes, Mr. President. We will support this non-law proposal. We have our criticisms of the forms, we consider that all this buffoon suddenly is not the best way to achieve these objectives, but we are also clear that this is a struggle that requires the efforts of all. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Díez has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u83	Thank you, President. We are indeed faced with a non-legislative proposal calling for the submission of two legislative initiatives, two bills, and the proposing group, the Socialist Group, has transferred its electoral programme to that proposal. Really for our group the important thing is the content in the sense of the objectives, not each of the points that have been moved here on which we can have points of coincidence or discrepancy. We are dealing with an issue on which, in our view, it is important to transfer the debate to the House, the debate on a real problem. The female unemployment rate is 3 points above the male unemployment rate, as the spokesman said, that is, one in five women of working age is out of the labour market. This is not new, we know it, but in the face of this situation we have to put measures on the table and we have to make decisions. Of course we should change the legislation, of course we are dealing with a mere non-legislative proposal, but the political debate that the Socialist Group has raised seems right to us because, as I say, a real problem has arisen. All indicators indicate that gender leads to an unequal, unfavourable economic situation for women, and to a persistent wage gap of around 24%, whereby a woman pays less than a man for the same job and has greater job insecurity. This is absolutely unacceptable and, in addition, exponentially increases the risks of a woman falling into a situation of vulnerability and social exclusion. This, which is not discussed by anyone, is the reality that we have on the table and on which it seems to my group that consideration should be given, and not so much on the exact content of all the issues that have been raised here or on whether this violates existing legislation, because we are here to make laws and change those that are not practical enough or that are not able to solve real problems, such as this one that has been brought to the House this afternoon. It is true that the Socialist Group - there would be our greatest discrepancy, let us say philosophically, even in lowercases - places the maximum of work in which real equality passes through which men and women cover the same and take care of the same, and we are basically proposed equal rights and permits and similar or equal obligations for men and women and, in the same sense, we are also proposed quotas. I will not deny that all these issues are important - and with none of them we are against - but, being a non-exhaustive proposal of law, it has seemed incomplete to us from some point of view. It seems to us that the Socialist Group is too keen on the flames and not the root of the fire when it comes to proposing solutions. I believe that we should broaden reflection and therefore focus on promoting a work approach based on reconciling family and professional life for all people, regardless of gender, so that access to child education and care services for other quality dependent people, as well as adequate parental leave, is essential. Co-responsibility should be addressed from an integral perspective, not through specific measures, including both sexes, and should be supported by public services. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to move towards a society in which tasks in the private sphere are compatible, which must be compatible in the public sphere. In both areas, the private and the public, men and women must share that space. This proposal lacks a more general approach that takes into account the wage gap, that takes into account the need to take action against job insecurity and that takes into account that, while there is a recruitment system, labour relations in which the gap between men and women and women is growing, precisely because of the lack of protection of temporary contracts, the number of which is increasing, as well as the lack of protection, cannot resolve this issue. That is why we have often proposed an indefinite single contract with increasing compensation, in order to put an end to that wage gap which is causing so much damage to men and, in particular, to women, who are in this case more unprotected. Having said that, and although, as I say, we would have liked it to be broader and less concrete in the sense of an electoral programme, there has been a real problem, a problem that has no solutions, and that is why we will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal put forward and defended by the Socialist Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group's proposal calls for us to debate a serious and urgent problem, wage inequality and, in parallel, one of its important causes, a model of patriarchal society, profoundly unjust in the distribution of so-called reproductive work, curative work. Our group is going to vote in favour because it agrees with the approach of the explanatory statement, although we sincerely believe, and with respect to the proposed law, that it sins of a certain totum revolutum. We disagree with some of your proposals. We do not share that blind faith in the taumaturgical nature of the laws, and the Socialist Group should know this well, after the experience of the so-called Law on Effective Equality between Men and Women, which, unfortunately, has been all the less effective because there are more obstacles than just legal ones. I suggest to the House that, in general, before passing more laws, we make an assessment of the implementation and effect of those that already exist and, in this particular case, of the 2007 Equality Act. Our group shares the idea that we need public policies to support model change, but this is not solved by aircraft laws but by incorporating a gender perspective into all laws, starting with labour laws. We disagree with the policies of indiscriminate recruitment incentives set out in this non-legislative proposal. But, said that, we want to highlight the important, all that we share that is the vast majority of the approach and, above all, address with public policies the great and growing wage inequality that punishes women. We also share that part of that inequality - not the only one - has to do, I insist, with that patriarchal model prevailing in society and in policies that have not been strengthened since the rule of the People's Party. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we deeply disagree with the argument used by the spokesman for the People's Party when it refers to the ancestral inequality of twenty centuries, which is something like calling the natural state of things: things have always been like this and, therefore, it seems that they should continue to be this way. Our wage inequality is not only maintained but increased. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2014 it has already stood at 32% and is going up. Unfortunately, we are currently at levels similar to those of 2002. But, moreover, this has a very concrete impact. This inequality implies that women, in 2012, ceased to receive 27.783 million euros in aggregate. Almost nothing! What men receive from wages for thirty-five years of work, women need forty-six and a half years. It's a real barbarity! Let me tell you that this has specific causes. I dare to identify some of these causes of wage inequality. They are four pes: the pes of precariousness; the pes of patriarchy and the two pes of the People's Party, which has something to do with that. One way to address this issue is to address the causes of this precariousness, and one of them is how work of high social consideration - those of the care of people - and of low wage consideration is paid. The reason is obvious: as it has always been jobs that women develop, when they become considered waged jobs they pay badly or worse. We are faced with a society that continues to deeply punish such jobs, as evidenced by the fact that in 2013, 95 per cent of people who were inactive in caring for and doing household chores were women. In short, what we need to change is one culture for another and what we are proposing to this society and to this House is to push forward a culture based on sharing employment and care, which is exactly the opposite of the policies that, for example, are behind the labour reform of the People's Party and Convergence i Unió. A very concrete example. Article 41 of the Workers' Statute of labour reform leaves it to enterprises to change working conditions and imposes conditions which in the case of women subject them to unfetterable conditions. That is why I want to draw attention to the fact that with certain strategies of wild competitiveness being a worker and a person is very difficult, but being a worker and a woman at the same time, without dying in the attempt, is a real calvary caused by a perverse social model. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We are going to vote for the non-law proposal put forward by the Socialist Group in spite of these small discrepancies and I would like to ask the Group of the European People's Party that it could have saved us the amendment that has proposed to us because, at this time in the twenty-first century, confusing women with families is of the most ancestral, that is indeed ancestral, and, above all, listening to it in the mouth of a woman is depressing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u86	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Montón, beyond your specific proposals, my group, as it cannot be otherwise, agrees with the substantive question raised by your initiative, the question of the wage gap and the question you have raised, citing Mrs Durán, of unpaid work. I therefore insist that, beyond the coincidence in your catalogue of measures, we will vote in favour of your initiative. I have to say that if there is anything that the countries in our environment teach us in this area, it is that dealing with these situations requires two fundamental questions: social and political consensus and public policy. Consensus, because the changes we intend to address do not take place overnight, require sustained policies over time and require that, whoever governs, those pretensions be maintained. It is clear that if we really want to address the debate that Mrs Montón has put before us, we would need to generate in the House a substantive consensus involving the majority of the political forces, the majority groups in the House, and also involving the social partners. In this sense it is clear that the calls under current legislation for collective bargaining to deal with these issues have not worked, it does not appear that the issue of the wage gap is a priority for the social partners, for workers' representatives or for employers' representatives. We need policies, because some intervention seemed to run counter to legal frameworks and culture, and in our view it is essentially not a question of what the laws foresee or of a generic aspiration to a cultural change that is difficult to produce, but of policies sustained over time that are capable of changing things. After a very general look at policies that have developed and are developing in the rest of Europe with legal frameworks or action plans, we can find very suggestive examples of how the issues of the wage gap are addressed in the rest of Europe. Sweden and France could be good examples of policies that, I insist, have also had the virtue of being launched by governments of a particular ideology and developed by governments with another ideology. In relation to the wage gap, it is essential to link with the co-responsibility of men in care and care in the family, with the assumption of responsibilities of men in the field of family life. It is in terms of equality and equality and it is also in demographic terms. Those countries in Europe that are achieving better fertility rates are also those countries in Europe where men have become more responsible for family care. That is where we agree with Mrs Montón in the complaint that the People's Party Government has frozen what was a battle that my group gave uniquely through the deputies Mercè Pigem and Lourdes Ciuro, the extension of paternity leave. There can be no economic justification for maintaining the freeze on the extension of this paternity permit; moreover, as a result of parliamentary responses to questions raised by Mrs Ciuro, it is evident that there is no cost that is today insurmountable. Mrs Montón, from the point of view of the self-criticism that the Socialist Group should make in this matter, the development of the Unit Act in the autonomous communities where the PSOE has ruled has responded to the old patriarchal model of dedicating women to the attention of the elderly, and the great example in this regard has been Andalusia, where the provision of family caregivers has developed more intensively in the whole State. Finally, and with this, Mr President, in Catalonia, the result of an alliance between civil society and the Government of Catalonia, a timetable revolution has been launched which aims to radically transform our practices in this area. It is a good example that perhaps everyone could be inspired and that goes to the heart of the fundamental issues raised by Mrs Montón. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs Montón, for official purposes I ask you what you are going to do with the amendment tabled. [[Pause]] She won't accept it. The non-legislative proposal will then be voted on in its own terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u89	Motion of the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió on the government's defence policy aimed at preventing bioterrorism attacks. Mr Xuclà has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this questionable motion we have concluded a parliamentary debate which I believe has been useful for a better understanding by this Parliament and the general public of a real threat, of a threat that exists and exists, but which we did not know how far the instruments available to the government to deal with it came. In fact, the origin, the genesis of the interest of those who speak to them for this inquiry is based on the presentation of the 2014 National Security Annual Report presented by the head of the Cabinet and Secretary of State, Mr Moragas, to the Constitutional Commission, in which there is a clear gap of information and strategy regarding biodefence. The interpellation with the Minister of Defence was useful because it showed us that the Government, beyond this document, which is the international reference document, has protocols to be incorporated from next year and I think it was an exercise of transparency. I mentioned it at the interrogation two weeks ago, and I want to repeat it today. On the network, ladies and gentlemen, American administration documents can be found perfectly accessible to any citizen on the American biosecurity defence strategy. I believe that in Spain there was clearly a lack of information before Parliament, including awareness of the threat, and of reflection on the instruments necessary to equip us with the measures to tackle biodefence, which together with cybercrime are the two major threats to security and defence at the present time. Ladies and gentlemen, the information forwarded by the Minister of Defence, the approach of this motion, the compromise agreement with the two amending groups, the People's Group and the Socialist Group, which I can already inform you of and whose text the spokesmen of the various groups have or will shortly reach, has been a debate in which we do not want to alarm, but we want to take very seriously the bioterrorism threat, in which it is very important for Parliament, for the Defence Committee, for public opinion to be aware of the review and updating of the inventory of means, equipment, medicines and vaccines available to the Government and the governments - I will refer to this - in order to deal with possible biological security threats. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous debate - and I come back to this today - I spoke of smallpox, eradicated in 1977, after an intense campaign led by the World Health Organization, but the Atlanta Centre for Infectious Diseases, the highest agency in the field of the American Administration, and the Vector Centre, the equivalent of the Russian Federation, warn of the existence of vials with live smallpox, as happened last year in the United States and which was communicated by the American Administration without referring to the specific place where the events took place. Anthrax in the Capitol or the bioterrorist attack on the Tokyo metro show that, unfortunately, we are not talking about the future or science fiction, we are talking about the past and protocols that the Minister of Defense, in a much more detailed way than this National Security Report, made clear to us that they exist and that they must be updated. Before the beginning of the debate on this motion I have been discussing with the United Left spokesman on the motivation of the same and the pharmaceutical sector and I mean, addressing him but also to all the groups in the House, that here it is nothing more than to promote the protection of the population, not of any kind of interest or private company that makes vaccines. Vaccines are not at the service of these companies, they are at the service of the population. The data we have, put forward by the Minister of Health and which have not been denied since that day, but which has been veiled over them, are as follows: in 2003, the second Aznar Government Legislature, 2 million doses of smallpox vaccines were purchased. The company that provided this stock of 2 million guaranteed five years of life for them with a possible extension of two years. Let's say that it is seven years, the sum - or the remainder, as you wish - is very easy: bought in 2003 and seven years of life, this stock of 2 million has expired since 2010 and, in addition, scientific research has been updated and those vaccines were not validated by the European Medicines Agency, so now we would have to make an inventory updated. I would like to thank the People's Parliamentary Group for its amendment which perfects and enriches the motion and which we have incorporated as a compromise. I would also like to thank the Socialist Group for everything that we have been able to incorporate and, Mr Rangel, also for what we have not incorporated but which we share with you, as it is the importance of stressing that this is a strategy that must be addressed not only by one administration, but by all the competent administrations in the field of security, and that is also by those autonomous communities such as the Basque Country and Catalonia that have an integral police and a police in charge of preventing the bioterrorism threat. This compromise amendment agreed and tabled by the three groups, which I hope will also agree with other groups, refers to the work within the National Plan of the Resolution of the Security Council 1540, a committee which is currently chairing Spain, to NATO standards - all that is not included in the strategy that was presented to us with some joy and lightness in the Constitutional Commission - and also to the importance of greater coordination in a policy that fails in the European Union, such as security and defence policy. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Amendments have been tabled to this motion. Firstly, for the Socialist Group, Mr Rangel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u92	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to repeat the importance of the subject; it has done so, I think, very clearly, Mr Xuclà. We share that in the face of threats such as the one we are discussing, we must have sufficient prevention capacity to avoid them as much as possible and, in any case, an effective response capacity, if any kind of event is to occur that requires it. That is why the Socialist Group takes this motion very seriously and that is why we are putting forward an amendment which we believe is very comprehensive. As we have always argued that politics is dialogue, negotiation and pact, we must compromise, but that does not mean giving up some of the issues that we advocate in that amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, normally in matters of these characteristics it must be made very clear that we must go from local to global, because threats do not have specific territory and those responsible for preventing them need to be coordinated and exerted; otherwise, we are always in inferior conditions. Coordination must begin with the home of oneself, so at the first point we called for the interdepartmental coordination mechanisms within the Government itself to be strengthened in a very clear way. We believe that it is essential that in these areas it is a principle that operates effectively and that there is no decoordination between departments that have to contribute a significant part of such prevention and response if necessary. It is also very important - and that is sometimes difficult to understand for those who do not participate in the mechanisms that should govern the relationship between public authorities in a centralized state - that all administrations, all responsible public authorities are coordinated and cooperating in this matter. We clearly defended this in paragraph 3 of our amendment, where we maintain that a report from the Ministry of Defence on policies to combat and prevent biological threats should be forwarded to the Congressional Defence Commission in a short period of time. Without prejudice to the necessary reservation, we believe that this report should address the analysis of the current state of such policies and the lines of action, the existing threats and measures aimed at their neutralization, as well as those to be implemented in the future, including the strengthening of the instruments of coordination and cooperation with the autonomous institutions involved, in particular with the autonomous police and civil protection mechanisms, as well as the health systems of the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very important because if it is not very internalised and there is this institutional loyalty from top down and from bottom up or horizontally, there can be shows like the one we are seeing in Catalonia lately, precisely talking about the fight against terrorism. It is not very upbuilding for citizens to have news of disagreements between the highest representatives of the fight against terrorism at the political level and also at the operational level. That is very negative and should be corrected urgently. It seems that the Security Board of Catalonia, chaired by the President of the Generalitat, will finally be convened in accordance with the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which, by the way, has not met for years. I say this from experience: promoting cooperation between police forces and joining forces is basic. More important, Mr. Xuclà, is integral security than integral police. It's a concept I've always defended. I hope and hope that, on the basis of a proposal that we have adopted here, a number of groups will push these policies forward and that we will be able to say more calmly that we have done what we had to do and then that the operational officials will put it into practice in the best possible way so that the citizens can be reassured that this issue is well dealt with and that the threats are perfectly located and identified and can be neutralized. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u93	Thank you very much, Mr Rangel. For the People's Parliamentary Group and to present its amendment, Mrs Rodríguez-Salmones has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u94	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed tabled an amendment to the motion following an inquiry by the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. This is the third debate on this issue of bioterrorism threats: first in Mr Moragas' appearance, then, fifteen days ago, here with the Minister of Defence, and now with this motion. It is very important that we agree, it is a matter of state where there are them. We obviously attach the utmost importance to this debate and to this motion. This affects the security of the State, which is the priority of any ruler. The word bioterrorism, together, is shocking, that is, the consequences of what can happen with NBQ weapons and NBQ threats linked to terrorism are shocking. We are therefore pleased that we can once again have an agreement in this House on this issue. If you're contemplated, Mr. Xuclà, how you wouldn't be contemplated, I don't want to waste time on this. You know that maybe there's not a specific heading that says biosecurity. Simply in the huge and perhaps most important chapter of the security strategy, in the chapter of terrorism, this is envisaged. Perhaps you would have liked to have had an independent heading. I think it's a minor matter. It's in the terrorism chapter. We have given him great importance in emphasizing our amendment to international incardination. If we have to have the highest level of prevention on this issue, we also have to have the highest level of prudence, but all this has to be within an international framework, and in this international framework we are working - and the amendment says it also takes up a socialist proposal - perfectly incardinated in NATO. As you have mentioned, we are doing so in the Committee now chairing Spain's UN Resolution 1540 of 2004, which is the moment when alarms come into the greatest tension, and, at the suggestion of the Socialist Group, also in the European Union. We Spanish citizens must have the guarantee - and in this, just as we must be very demanding, we must also be very careful - that our country is so defended, as protected as the one that most among our allies and partners. It is clear that, as shown, all this is in an interministerial framework with the main ministries led and framed in the National Security Strategy and in the National Security Council; that the preventive importance is maximal, that the importance of maintaining therapeutic stocks is maximal. I've used the word peace of mind before. Peace comes from tension, alarm and prevention, and in that area we wanted to place more emphasis once again on the fact that we are as defended and threatened as any of the countries in our environment. All this is incardine that in this legislature and, as a follow-up to something that had already begun with the Solana report during the previous socialist government, the National Security Strategy has been made, the National Security System, the National Security Council has been launched, both issues have been presented in the House and two reports have already been submitted and, lastly, the National Security Bill has arrived four days ago in this House and we will now proceed with it. For the first time there is a real system watching over all of this and welcome this motion that warns us but it must also reassure us on the issue of bioterrorism, which, I repeat, are two words that together are really frightening. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs Rodriguez-Salmones. In fixing positions, I have the floor for the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. My group will support this motion. We believe that the three forces that had tabled amendments have reached agreement, and we agree. In principle, the three points covered by this final resolution are the following: firstly, that the content of the analysis of bioterrorism preparedness, protection and response policies, which we believe to be important, should continue to be incorporated into the annual report; secondly, that it has certainly been the most controversial, that is, to be endowed - or not - with the means, equipment, medicines, etc., in order to deal with any such attack, we also believe that it is very important, because, if not, it is not worth anything. Not having enough is like navigating in the void after having made all this series of assessments. Therefore, to have the envelope, which has been updated, modernised and with the necessary measures, because, obviously, what is not used, if not updated or preserved as it should be kept, will not have any validity on the day it is needed. Let's hope you never have to need it, it's like lifeguards on ships. Finally, we believe that the third point or its objectives are important that all these security, prevention, etc. policies should be incorporated into the major European defence and security policies and also within NATO, but in any case in European security and defence, which the Spanish State is involved in and which we consider to be fundamental, because it is not at all worth carrying out these actions individually, outside a European context or framework, which is ultimately enabling such policies. My group will support this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Lozano has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is no doubt that the threat posed by bioterrorism to our societies has been adequately explained by Mr Xuclà and we consider, as his motion suggests - especially the initial text - that this threat and the appropriate policies, with the closeness and with the interest of the matter, should be adequately reflected in the National Security Report. In that regard, we welcome this initiative because we believe it points to a deficiency that needs to be addressed. However, I believe that the motion - at least the interpellation in the terms in which Mr Xuclà made it - also reveals a lack of communication and transparency in the Ministry of Defence on what I believe is important to reflect on and that in some sense it was better reflected in the first text. I am referring to the difficulties that I find in the Ministry of Defence to adequately communicate the risks and threats that our country has in this case relating to bioterrorism, but it often happens in relation to international terrorism in a broader sense. Those risks and threats are delicate to communicate because it must be done with sufficient care not to cause panic to the population, but neither must information be omitted that can cause indolence in the population that makes it not aware of the world in which it lives. Finding this balance is something that the Ministry of Defence should work on in its communication policies, on the risks and threats in general that Spain suffers, and in particular on the issue of bioterrorism. Secondly, he said that he also put his finger on the sore regarding the transparency of the Ministry of Defence. Mr. Xuclà himself pointed out in his inquiry how information on the measures taken in public policies in the United States regarding the bioterrorism threat is perfectly accessible on the website of the Pentagon, of Congress, in short, of the American government. Communication and transparency are two policies on which much better action can be taken by the Ministry of Defence. That lack was very well pointed out in Mr Xuclà's initial motion, and in particular the role that Parliament must play in receiving this information was also very well indicated. I think it is appropriate to focus on that aspect of the debate above all because I believe that this is more a debate on information than on bioterrorism itself. In any event, I announce that the points that are finally included in the compromise amendment by the three groups are the pleasure of my group and we will vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum to show our group's opposition to that first motion, emanating from the question of the last plenary, tabled by the Convergence and Union Group, and to give concrete expression to our position on that compromise proposal which was presented to us just a few minutes ago. I would like to begin by highlighting the differences between the text put forward, both in the first and in the last wording that we will be voting on today, which follows from the statements made by the proposer, especially those which we were able to hear during the debate on the question of which this motion is the result. I say this because the content of much of the proposal can seem absolutely common sense to us; moreover, we could say that both points 1, 2 and 3 of the first proposal, which is worrying that it was not being carried out by the ministry, that, in short, it is nothing more than asking for the inclusion of bioterrorism in national security policies - obviously for us this must be done within the prudence, the conspicuousness and therefore the reality - and we also considered it appropriate to include point 3, which is nothing else to provide this Parliament with the necessary information, the transmission of information on this matter to the Defence Committee, in the same way that we would absolutely do with everyone. In our view, these issues must be addressed from the point of view of normality, of the obvious, which is why I told them that there is a difference between what he puts and the words that have been heard from this rostrum not only by the proposer but also by some of the intervening groups. For us it is essential that this type of action, this type of measures do not in any case mean increasing the level of alert, and therefore the degree of social alarm, which translates after listening to certain interventions. To work properly on this matter of extreme sensitivity must be based on the optimal training - it is true - in the necessary coordination; only in this way can we give that calm which has been so much talked about here to society, something that is not achieved, as we have seen in previous episodes, increasing public alert to a subject of such extreme sensitivity. Quite the contrary, this has already been experienced in this country, in Spain: the logic of fear of the theoretical existence of weapons of mass destruction that is unleashed if we continue to feed and increase the feeling of permanent threat, in this case via bioterrorism. Such measures often have disastrous consequences, and I will not quote some of the unjustifiable military interventions that have led us along this path. We must follow another path in building security and in building peace, because for us building security means building peace. That has to be based on different cultural bases too, so we must not oversize or stir up certain fears, as I said, but do the work properly and with due diligence. As has already been said here, we share the view that such threats must be combated within the framework of international legality, as determined by UN Resolution 1540. Similarly, in the field of public policies of each State, for us, the only effective way forward in this culture of peace that I spoke of earlier is to ensure the total and absolute destruction of all the weapons of mass destruction referred to in that resolution: nuclear, chemical or biological NQB weapons. Therefore, serve this intervention also to remind us that we must move forward and push forward nuclear disarmament. Landing on specific issues, we need to address those involving the necessary prevention, the necessary coordination - some of them have already been mentioned here - and the necessary improvement in response capacity. In this sense, it is essential to clearly define the function of the plant twenty-two of the Gómez Ulla or to enhance the work of the Brisan as a reference of the NBQ units. With regard to the last point of the motion that you raised and of which we were speaking earlier in that conversation that we held at the door, which refers to the need to update the vaccine inventory, we agree to do so, but we do not agree to do so as set out the literality of the text that you proposed to us, because it did not say on what basis and how to update that vaccine inventory. Uninvited to enter other topics and other controversies, look at the profound hypocrisy that can be seen by comparing two events experienced in this country. Recently, with hepatitis C, medication was not guaranteed because, literally, it was no business for pharmaceuticals. We compared this to the extreme alarm for influenza A, which drew the limits of perception between the probable and the possible and involved the massive purchase of vaccines that have eventually ended up stored in the Ualsan, which will be there until their expiry, if they are not already expired. The first wording did not determine how these inventories had to be reviewed. It is true that this speaks of the revision of protocols and of inter-ministerial and inter-administrative coordination in order to be able to carry it out correctly, therefore, it seems good to us to move forward on this, but I will also tell you that the wording that has been sought for this point 2 is, at least, somewhat confusing. The position of our group, after having analysed and studied minimally - because it has not given us time - the proposal presented, will not be unfavourable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. Mr Xuclà, I ask you about the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is a compromise amendment which is in the possession of the Bureau, which incorporates, from the CiU text, the amendments of the People's Group and the Socialist Group and which I hope will be put to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u103	That will be done, Mr. Xuclà. That is the text that we shall put to the vote. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the posturing of the Government in relation to francking. [[Mr URBINA]] [[File number 173/000213]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u104	Motion for a resolution by the Joint Group, by Mr Urbina, on the position of the Government with regard to fracking. To defend the initiative, Mr Errekondo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u105	We present the motion resulting from the interpellation about fracking. In recent years, global experts have confirmed the risks posed by the extraction of energy resources such as non-conventional gas through the hydraulic fracture technique, and the pollution of water, air and land, as well as the seismic risks, for example, in the United States, without going any further. A number of reports issued by the U.S. Geological Service and the January 2014 report of the Spanish Geological and Mining Institute are fully implemented. Although this blind and polluted Government of the People's Party will find it incredible, countries that act from common sense and responsibility have banned fracking on their territory, such as Bulgaria or France, etc. And there are places where the precautionary principle has been applied and a moratorium of several years has been established until the health of the environment and people is guaranteed; that is, a moratorium without cheating, as some party here claims. We understand that if the moratorium is applied it must be on the basis that all activities related to fracking are suspended for the duration of that moratorium. With regard to the feasibility and dependence of fracking, the feasibility is clear that it is in doubt because it is a technology that is in principle very expensive and absolutely dependent, as we have seen recently in the fluctuations in the gas and oil markets. In fact, many of the companies exploiting this technique in the United States have been bankrupt lately. It should also be said that it is a fallacy to present this technique as a panacea against energy dependence since it already needs a high level of foreign technical support both material and knowledge. Moreover, this Government acts with absolute hypocrisy; its hypocrisy is proportional to its claims to serve the large energy multinationals, as well as to ensure that these rotating doors continue to be well lubricated. And it is that the government is obsessed with facilitating fracking authorizations to the operating companies, and for that reason it does not hesitate to adapt its legislation with interest. On the other hand, it is regrettable that the ten members of the National Competition Market Commission are appointed by decree on the proposal of the Minister of Economic Affairs himself. We are clear that only if the competition regulator itself was truly independent would the prices of light, gas and fuel fall drastically and therefore energy poverty be reduced. On the other hand, the Government of the People's Party wants us to stick it with the implementation of the environmental impact study and the fees and the tax, because the current management of the environmental impact study has no credibility. The same is true of the last invention taken from the joke, such as taxes and taxes, because the only thing this Government intends to do is to buy the will of the owners, the local administrations and the citizens. However, there is a way out, even if the Government does not recognize it, there is a solution to this energy model, even if the People's Party Government does not see it. The solution lies in a new decentralized energy model based on renewables, which is economically viable, because it is necessary to ensure the health of the environment and people, and it would also generate hundreds of thousands of quality jobs at source. We know that this is not done overnight, of course, but requires a road map replacing fossil fuel and nuclear fuels with renewable energy. Today, contrary to what the minister himself said the previous week when the question was being addressed, we know that with storage batteries this solution is a reality; an energy reality that guarantees energy efficiency, energy security and even self-sufficiency. [[The Lord]] Today the world is like a microwave and it is therefore urgent to take measures to curb the global warming that the current energy model is taking on, increasingly polluting and hot. The Basque society - I have just said this and we repeat it in the interpellation to the Minister of Industry and Energy, Mr Soria - is contrary to fracking and has declared it in numerous popular consultations, mass mobilizations and all kinds of demanding initiatives, but also through institutional initiatives in both local entities as well as in the Parliament of Navarre and in the Basque Parliament. In local entities and in a multitude of municipalities of all kinds of political colour, motions against fracking have been approved. On 15 October 2013, the Parliament of Navarre adopted the Foral Law 30/2013, which provides that the use of fracking in the territory of Navarre is prohibited. However, that rule was appealed by the People's Party Government and today we can say that since December 2014 it has been annulled by the Constitutional Court. The Basque Parliament also registered a popular legislative initiative promoted by social actors, with the endorsement of more than 103,000 citizens, calling for the prohibition of fracking in historical territories such as Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa and is currently being processed. With all these institutional and social initiatives we can see that the vast majority of Basque society rejects the use of fracking in Euskal Herria. Moreover, we are certain that if a broad debate were opened to all the citizens of the State, it would be mostly opposed to the use of fracking. That is why, since Amaiur, we have tabled this motion urging the Government to respect the decisions taken in the institutions that today represent the historic territories of Gipuzkoa, Bizkaia, Nafarroa and Araba, as well as the will of the social majority. It also respects the will of the social majority of all those territories and places of the State that have proved contrary to fracking as a method of extraction. The majority will of Basque society is what it is and clearly says no to fracking, just as it said no to the Garoña nuclear power plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Errekondo. For the defence of the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, I have the floor for Mr Josep Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we share the aim of the motion tabled by Amaiur of the Joint Group. It should be remembered that with regard to fracking different territories such as the Basque Country, Cantabria, La Rioja, Catalonia, Navarra, Andalusia and numerous municipalities have expressed very clearly their opposition to this extractive technique. In democracy it is essential to listen not only to hear and be sensitive to the demands, demands and above all arguments of the citizens and the territories of our country and more on such a specific issue that affects both the citizenry and the extractive technique of fracking. It affects the quality of life of the citizens, it affects the affected territories, in short, it affects the conception of the energy model of our country. In addition to citizens and territories, the scientific community must also be heard and this must be exposed through a political will that the People's Party Government has had at all so far. That is why we put forward an amendment to add that, from the Plural Left, we believe it reinforces and broadens the objectives of the motion tabled. There are many governments throughout Europe and part of the world that have expressed the ban on fracking techniques such as France, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Romania, the State of North Rhine-Westphalia in the Federal State of Germany, or Fribourg in Switzerland. In the United States, states like North Carolina, New York, New Jersey, etc. In short, there are several and justified reasons to oppose fracking: health reasons, environmental reasons and energy model reasons. That is what we proposed in the addendum amendment that we tabled. The European Parliament has been explicit. The European Parliament's Commission dealing with environmental, public health and safety issues has also been explicit in raising the feasibility, the risk of seismic movements and that the sustainability of gas has not been demonstrated. But most importantly, the European Parliament's resolution of November 2011 alerts the opacity of the sector. It considers that full transparency is necessary, as well as an unavoidable obligation for all operators to fully disclose the composition and concentration of the chemical content of the fracturing fluid and to fully comply with existing EU legislation. It is evident - also mentioned in the study of the Geological and Mineral Institute of Spain, prepared in January 2014 - that this combination of chemicals with water in the fracking procedure generates the pollution of the environment water by radioactive substances, such as radon or uranium, the pollution of aquifers and the atmosphere and the induced seismicity, the main concerns posed by the technique of hydraulic fracture. Fracking requires a continuous, intensive water injection of about 300 litres per second; it generates hazardous waste, and the analyses carried out tend to find high concentrations of heavy metals, radioactivity, radioactive materials and so on. It is a clear emitter of greenhouse gases, 20% higher than coal and 21 times more than CO2. There is a clear element of chemical and health risk, in fact, in studies of 362 clearly identified substances the most remarkable thing is that 25% can cause cancer, 37% affects the endocrine system, more than 50% causes nervous system damage and almost 40% causes allergies. Ultimately, questioning or minimizing the health risk of the people involved in fracking is, at least, irresponsible. I would like to end this intervention by saying that fracking poses an unnecessary alternative to the energy model. Unconventional gas is not the solution for our energy future. It is one more fossil fuel and our bet is the decarbonization of the economy with a 100 percent renewable energy model, based on energy savings and efficiency. It is clear - and I conclude with this, Mr President - that the proven rate of energy return from fracking is the lowest of the energy technologies used. For all that, we maintain the amendment and, because of the principles of prevention and precaution, we believe that fracking should be prohibited throughout the Spanish State. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. For the defence of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Maria Pilar Lucio.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u109	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is undoubtedly the great reserve of Europe's biodiversity. [[The Lord]] This rich heritage is a factor of competitive advantage for our country, but that advantage will be maintained and expanded as the commitment of society and its institutions to preserve it becomes greater. However, the Government of the People's Party is following the course contrary to the protection of natural heritage. In the last amendment of the Hydrocarbons Act it actively favours the use of fracking or hydraulic fracture technique, giving prebents to the municipalities and owners of the land where they are installed and with reduced charges. From the Socialist Group we agree with the proposing group that neither the Basque Country nor Navarre nor the rest of Spain can and should take the risk posed by the fracking technique to our environment and our groundwaters. There are three fundamental reasons to argue the statement I make: environmental, economic and social. First, there would be environmental reasons. There are no conclusive reports yet on the impact of using the hydraulic fracture technique. We have handled all kinds of reports commissioned by different private, public entities, universities, experts or the companies concerned themselves; some warn of the serious risk of the technique and others speak of the safety of the technique. In the face of this indefinitiveness, the Socialist Group has taken a political decision, committing itself to paralysing the activities of the projects consisting of drilling for the exploration, research or exploitation of hydrocarbons that require the use of hydraulic fracturing. It has also undertaken to suspend the authorisations granted and to prohibit new activities until conclusive reports are available that rule out the existence of irreparable environmental damage linked to this activity. As for economic reasons, I will tell you no more that there are large Spanish companies that have shown their disinterest in investing in these types of projects. Some, showing more sensitivity and intelligence than the nation's own government, would like to fracture the soil but not the societies in which they are found. And there I connect with the third justification, which is nothing more than social reasons. Minister Soria tried to show that there was oil in his land and the citizens, in the elections on Sunday, have demonstrated in the polls what he had been claiming in the streets. The democratic deafness of the People's Party has become meridianly clear; they seem to be worth more of a hypothetical source of gas and oil resources than the will of the people they govern. In Vitoria, in Soria, in the merindades of Burgos, in Andalusia or in Cantabria no one agrees with the hydraulic drilling in its territory. Let us remember that Spain is not Oklahoma and that neither the orography nor population density nor biodiversity are the same. I prefer to look at France, where Parliament has banned the exploration of hydrocarbons by means of a hydraulic fracture and has revoked the authorisations that have been granted, under the precautionary principle set out in Article 174(2) of the Treaty establishing the European Union, which states that the necessary protective measures must be taken before damage occurs where there are reasonable grounds to fear that potentially dangerous effects may affect the environment or human, animal or plant health. I conclude by saying that fracking or extracting hydrocarbons at sea have no place in our sustainable management model because we believe that the energy transition model can perfectly dispense with this type of technique in a country with the natural resources that Spain has. The Socialist Group is now closer than it was two days ago to be able to change this model. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio. Position-fixing turn. Firstly, Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the debate on the issue of fracking brought to us by the Joint Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in this House is a controversial matter; a matter which raises many rejections and also some very nuanced support. Some place fracking as the key to the recent economic takeoff in the United States. The lower energy dependence and its lower cost resulting from the gas abundance extracted by the hydraulic fracture system has been an element of industry's competitiveness which has led to greater economic growth. However, the great doubts about the impact of this technique on the environment, on groundwater, on seismic movements and, ultimately, on people are not entirely clear. There are those who ensure that the risks are minimal and the advantages are great, and there are those who point out the opposite. It is therefore an issue that would require a calm debate, but given the circumstances, even political ones, I recognize that it is not easy to achieve it. The Basque Group and the Basque Government have been arguing that any step taken in relation to fracking should ensure 100 per cent human health and well-being, as well as respect and preserve 100 per cent of the environment; therefore, in view of the minimal risk to people or the environment, we were opposed to this method of exploiting gas resources. The Basque Government, taking part in this reflection, considers that avoiding any risk it is necessary to know the situation and to carry out the assessment of gas resources in Euskadi, to know with what resources, with how many resources we have; a logical position for anyone who has to make decisions from the Government, a decision also prudent and responsible. And that was the position that the Basque Group has held in Madrid on this matter. By the way, our support for the recent reform of the Hydrocarbons Act has nothing to do, despite what has been said by different groups, with our position on fracking. This reform neither allows it nor prevents it, and then I believe that we should not deceive the citizens, which allows that if through the hydraulic fracture, economic resources are obtained that these, these economic resources, not only result in those who exploit the gas, but also in the citizens, their municipalities and their autonomous communities. Now, indeed, there is a popular legislative initiative that has entered the Basque House and to which the parliamentary groups have tabled their amendments. Euzko Abertzaleak-Vascos Nationalists, the Basque Nationalist Party, has tabled amendments in order to request a moratorium on exploration and exploitation for a period of five years, as well as the creation of a scientific commission to study the technical evolution of hydraulic fracturing. All this in order to preserve, as I said, 100 per cent of people's health and the environment. The Basque Government has advanced its position. In the event of the adoption of the moratorium proposed by the Nationalist Group in the Basque Parliament, the Government, which shares this moratorium, will submit to what is determined by the Basque Parliament, an identical position to which the Basque Group maintains and will maintain in Madrid. Our position, that of the Basque Government and that of the Basque Nationalist Party, is the same, as it cannot be otherwise. It has been, is and will be clear and clear in relation to the issue of fracking. It seems to us sincerely less clear what is being brought to your debate and vote in this House today, it seems to us to be relatively confusing the position of Amaiur reflected in the motion and even, if I may say so, the position reflected in the amendments tabled to the popular legislative initiative in the Basque Parliament. And that is why we are going to abstain from voting on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mrs Riera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u113	President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on fracking has been controversial since its inception, and unfortunately remains so today, as the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party also commented. The concern in society about the method of hydraulic fracture is latent and this is understandable because this technology is undoubtedly controversial from the point of view of its environmental impact, therefore, the consequences on its territory and its citizens. Each territory, ladies and gentlemen, has its own specificity and it is the territory that marks the risks associated with this technology. I will not dwell on these reflections. They are well aware of the position of my parliamentary group on this issue, as we have stated on several occasions, and they are also well aware of our firm demand that it should be the autonomous communities that decide and not only for their research competences, but that we go further, understanding that it is also them, the autonomous communities, who must have the powers of exploitation on the basis of efficiency, proximity and knowledge of the territory. I do not think it is up to my parliamentary group today to go into the specificities of this technique and the risks associated with it, but I would like to use this motion to recall the position of my parliamentary group, from Convergence i Unió, in relation to the hydraulic fracture and thereby also explain the meaning of our vote on this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, from Ciu we believe that if there is an oil or gas field in a territory, in an autonomous community, the extractive activity of these sources of energy that takes place in this territory and whenever there is a technology sufficiently advanced to guarantee that the risks are controlled, it is an activity that we understand and is the responsibility of the autonomous community and not the State. Therefore, in our opinion, it is the autonomous community that is competent to decide directly whether the permits to start this activity should be granted or not and, in any case, it should be the administration responsible to manage the incentives to that activity or to manage an alleged tax that engraves these extractions... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u114	I'm sorry, Mrs. Riera. Please be silent so that the speaker can be heard. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u115	Thank you, President. ... as recently introduced by the Government with the bill amending Law 34/1998 of 7 October 1998 on the hydrocarbon sector and regulating certain tax and non-tax measures in relation to the exploration, investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing that is important for our parliamentary group is strict respect for the majority will of the representatives of a territory, of an autonomous community. In this regard, we believe that it is up to the autonomous community to decide whether or not to authorize a fracking project. It is the autonomous community that must manage, by proximity to the territory, any competition associated with this extractive practice and must be able to decide, by means of a cost-benefit analysis, what is the optimal decision given the specificities of its own territory. For this reason, and precisely because we believe that the criterion of the autonomous community is fundamental in these cases, we would support the motion put forward by Amaiur in its own terms, understanding that this is reflected in the points of the motion resulting from the interpellation. In this case, our vote would be in favour, on the basis of the competition considerations and those which we believe should be the competence of the autonomous communities in this area. In line with this same approach and in the conviction of the role to be played by the autonomous communities in this area, in the event that the proposing group, Amaiur, accepts the amendment tabled by the Group of the Plural Left, our group would abstain from believing that it is moving away from the approach of our group, which demands - I insist - the role of the autonomous communities in the decisions on fracking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u116	Thank you very much, Mrs. Riera. Mr Flores has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u117	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again in this legislature, fracking is once again the protagonist in this rostrum. In this case, it is the Amaiur Group that presents a motion to respect the decisions of the institutions and the will of the social majority that has been shown to be contrary to fracking as a method of extraction. Much has been discussed in this House about this and different positions have been taken by different groups, but we have always started with two basic premises. It would be difficult not to agree on the first, energy dependence, since it is an absolutely contrasted fact, we are energy dependent and although we have made a huge effort in the development of renewable energies, the truth is that they cover only part of our energy mix, which is very diversified. On the second question, the risks that may arise from the use of techniques such as fracking are more complicated. It is curious how in this Chamber we have been using up to satiety terms such as technology, innovation, R+D+i, and we are filled with mouths to talk about them, but when we refer to the study, prospecting, exploration and research of non-conventional hydrocarbons there are those who put a blindfold in their eyes and close the doors to developing technologies that contribute to building a better future. In fact, the United States, thanks to its determined commitment to fracking, is now a non-energy-dependent country and has lowered tariffs not only in the country itself, but has been the cause of the drop in the barrel of oil, which we all notice when filling the deposit. It also draws my attention to the fact that it is precisely a political party with a unique implementation in the Basque Country that opposes the development of such technologies. Euskadi is a land that has been cultivated and developed thanks precisely to the strength of the working, mining and industrial spirit, inhabited by good knowledge of the risks that any innovative and industrial activity entails but absolutely tenacious in achieving its objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot stay behind in the technological race against other states because, apart from the United States, in Europe, Germany, the United Kingdom, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Romania, Hungary, Lithuania and even our neighbour Portugal, they are betting on this type of unconventional gas. Therefore, if Spain resigned, it would make us even more dependent. For these reasons I have just explained, refusing to explore and investigate new sources of energy would be a temerity on our part, just as it would be a temerity not to give the maximum guarantees to any exploration or prospecting aimed at avoiding risks. Hence the enormous effort by the Government and the General Courts to regulate and ensure the protection of the environment through a robust and rigorous environmental impact assessment procedure, which must be carried out prior, mandatory and binding before any work related to this activity is authorised. I would remind you that the European Commission makes a number of recommendations on fracking; ours obliges us to evaluate these projects. Finally, I would like to point out that this regulation is of a basic nature and has the competence of the State, Mrs Riera, without detracting from the important role that the autonomous communities and local administrations play in relation to authorisations and permits of an environmental nature. Therefore, and in conclusion, it is not possible to invoke respect for the decisions of institutions or of a popular will that are not competent in this area, and thus it was credited with the declaration of unconstitutionality of the laws that were passed in different communities, in particular in Cantabria, La Rioja and Navarra, as mentioned here, especially when it was also the Basque Government itself that has pronounced itself, with good judgment, in the sense of not paralysing the ongoing environmental impact studies. Our vote will therefore be against this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Flores. Mr Errekondo, do you accept any amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u119	No, but the vote will be separate.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u120	All right. Point one and point two. Thank you very much. That's how we'll do it in a few minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u121	We are going to begin voting, and first of all, in accordance with what has been said at the Spokesman's Meeting, I submit to the House its approval by consent of the direct and single reading of the bill amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the economic agreement between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre. [[Consent]] Adopted by consensus, the bill will be discussed on Thursday.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u122	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left on universalization of the right to public health care, restoring the legal situation prior to the promulgation of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 of 20 April 2012 on urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the National Health System and to improve the quality and security of its services. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 312 plus 1 telematic vote, 313; in favour, 142; against, 170 plus 1 telematic vote, 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u123	It's not taken into consideration. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Body for Transfer of Ownership and Competencies from AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. [[File number 122/000183]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u124	Takes into account the proposal for a law of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Organic for the transfer of ownership and powers from AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Mrs. Pérez defended you. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 312 plus 1 telematic vote, 313; in favour, 42; against, 171 plus 1 telematic vote, 172; abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u125	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u126	No bill by the People's Group on recognition of the strategic nature of high speed and completion of planned actions. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 175 against 37 abstentions 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u127	It's approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF CARE AND WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN' And men. [[File number 162/001201]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u128	No bill by the Socialist Group on the distribution of care and equal pay for women and men. It is also voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 142 against 169 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u129	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u130	Motion by the Catalan Parliamentary Group on the government's defence policy aimed at preventing bioterrorism attacks. [[Convergence and Union]] There is a compromise amendment which has been distributed to all Members and which you know. That compromise amendment is the one that we are voting on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 305 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u131	It's approved. - Motion by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the position of the Government in relation to francking. [[Mr URBINA]] [[File number 173/000213]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u132	Motion by the Joint Group, Mr Urbina, on the Government's position on fracking. The vote is on its own terms, but there will be two votes. Point one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 35 against, 273 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u133	It's rejected. Second point. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 133 against, 173 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-26-CD150526.u134	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was nine o'clock at night.
