ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u1	The meeting was called to order. Appearance of the President of the Government to the plenary session of the House to report on the European Council of 25 and 26 June 2015. The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appear before the plenary session of the House to report on the content of the European Council held in Brussels on 25 and 26 June. That is what is reflected on the agenda of this extraordinary session of the Congress, but as there have been up to four meetings of Heads of State and Government of the euro area or of the European Union as a whole dealing with the Greek crisis, I will also refer, if you will allow me, to the development of the negotiations and the agreement - which we hope will be final - that was reached last weekend. Let us begin with what was discussed in the Council on 25 and 26 June last, and we will do so with a strong recognition. The European Council expressed its gratitude to Jacques Delors, former President of the European Commission, for his outstanding contribution to the development of the European project and decided to grant him the title of a European citizen of honour. Our saying is that it is a good thing to be grateful and the Europeans in general, and the Spanish in particular, we owe thanks to Jacques Delors. So far there were only two people with the title of honorary citizen of Europe: Jean Monnet, one of the founding fathers of what is now the European Union, and Helmut Kohl, the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, of whom it is not necessary to insist on their values as worthy of this recognition. Now he joins them Jacques Delors, one of those people who can be said to have left an indelible mark. Your contributions as President of the European Commission, on such important issues as the creation of the internal market and even the birth of our common currency, point to a before and after in the history of the Union. A few days ago we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the signing of Spain's agreement to enter the European Community. Delors was then the President of the Commission. Throughout his career he proved to be a good friend of Spain and the Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to the matters before the Council. Much of the work involved the Mediterranean migration crisis on the basis of the principles agreed at the extraordinary European Council on 23 April and the recent European migration agenda presented by the Commission. It is absolutely necessary to stress - and I did so to my fellow Europeans - that the shipwrecks and deaths that have occurred in the Mediterranean are a real human tragedy, to which the European Union must respond in solidarity on the basis of the principles of solidarity and shared responsibility with a priority objective: to prevent the recurrence of tragedies such as those that have occurred in the Mediterranean. The Union must be fully involved in managing this crisis, and it must do so with ambition, common sense and maximum effectiveness. The opposite would be unacceptable and would undermine the founding spirit of this common project, which we call the European Union. During the meeting, and in response to the request made to me by several members of the European Council, I had the opportunity to present Spanish experience in the management of migratory flows. This experience was seen as a model to be followed by the whole of Europe. Agreements to establish labour migration channels have been vigorously promoted. High-level contacts and ongoing dialogue with the authorities of the countries of origin of migration flows have been established. Young people's training and employment programmes, which were the main candidates for irregular immigration, had been promoted and whose flight, owing to lack of opportunities, deprived their countries of development opportunities. Instruments of migration cooperation were concluded, including a large number of readmission agreements. Both the Frontex Agency's participation and the funding of European programmes dedicated to combating irregular immigration have increased, and multilateral forums for dialogue and cooperation have been developed, such as the Rabat Process, which aims to promote the organisation of legal migration, the fight against irregular migration and the relationship between migration and development. In the light of this experience, the European Union is committed to putting forward proposals and initiatives to promote cooperation with countries of origin, strengthen the role of Frontex and develop a relocation and resettlement system for people in need of international protection. This is a matter that has been dealt with for a long time. The European Council of 24 and 25 October 2013 addressed this issue after the Lampedusa shipwrecks, which took place on 3 April 2013. I then had the opportunity to present to the Council a number of proposals to make the European Union much more active in this area. Subsequently, on 23 April this year, an extraordinary European Council met to address the humanitarian tragedy in the Southern Mediterranean off the coast of Libya. From all the experiences received and from the implementation of the agreements adopted so far, a series of immediate reaction measures, such as the relocation from Italy and Greece to other States of the European Union, on a temporary and exceptional basis, of 40,000 people from Syria and Eritrea in clear need of international protection, are born as resolutions of this Council. The Council will adopt by consensus this same month of July a formula for such relocation. It has also been decided to grant additional emergency financial assistance to the most affected Member States and the resettlement of 20,000 people, who are also in need of international protection, from third countries to the European Union. Once again, I have transferred to the Council that Spain's involvement and support will always be available to curb, as a matter of urgency, this intolerable human bleeding and that it is a European problem that requires a European solution. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to the conclusions of the European Council contained in the second item on security and defence issues, a debate in which the Secretary-General of NATO has also taken part. We have agreed to push forward the new internal security strategy in the revision of the overall foreign and security policy strategy. Both must be closely coordinated, as security is indivisible. In addition, we have stressed the need to move forward so that the European Union budget ensures adequate funding for this chapter, which will enable us to strengthen our capacities in preventing and effectively managing the new forms of the crisis we are facing. What we have learned in recent years is that internal security and external security are closely interrelated and that all the countries of the European Union are clear targets of terrorist barbarism. And one consequence: in the face of this threat it would be suicidal to claim a separate defence from each of our countries. Ladies and gentlemen, the third part of the Council's conclusions deals with economic issues under the heading of employment, growth and competitiveness. In this area, we have dealt with three issues: firstly, we have supported the specific recommendations to the Member States within the framework of the European Semester. Secondly, the Presidents of the Commission, the European Council, the Eurogroup, the European Central Bank and the European Parliament have presented us with their report on proposals to complete the design of economic and monetary union. Thirdly, we have dealt with the European strategy for the development of the digital economy. I shall refer briefly to each of these matters. European Semester. With regard to the European Semester, as you know, the June European Councils discuss the specific recommendations addressed to the Member States. This is the last step in the process of economic policy coordination during the six-month period. The recommendations addressed to Spain this year reflect that our country's situation has changed radically, and that within the euro area it is the one that grows the most and the one that creates the most net employment. For example, only a couple of years ago Spain was on the verge of opening a sanctioning procedure for the very serious economic imbalances accumulated. Today, however, Spain has only four recommendations compared to nine in 2013 and eight in 2014. The Commission considers that our imbalances are no longer excessive. This is the balance sheet of an intense process of reforms and a great effort for the whole of Spanish society. As regards the report on the future of economic and monetary union, drawn up by the group of so-called five presidents, Spain has been very involved in its preparation, when it presented proposals that are both ambitious and concrete. Monetary union must make progress in its integration in order for the euro to function properly. We must therefore push forward a long-term process that will lead us to a greater degree of convergence of our national economies while creating the necessary corrective mechanisms in the face of different cyclical situations between Member States. In this respect, progress needs to be made in five scenarios: a more integrated internal market in areas such as energy, retail banking or the digital agenda, among many others; in labour mobility it is important, in particular, to ensure the portability of workers' rights, such as unemployment benefits, throughout the Union, and also to ensure full recognition of professional qualifications and qualifications; coordination of economic policies to prevent fiscal and external imbalances from accumulating which put the euro at risk and to this end, new competitiveness indicators are needed, as they existed in the Maastricht process, allowing Member States to implement economic policies compatible with the single currency; in the fiscal union with the creation, sooner rather than later, of a budget for the whole euro area, and greater political union to ensure that the governance system agreed for the euro area respects democratic legitimacy in decision-making. In order to advance this integration Spain defends a gradual but continuous process based on convergence criteria. Well, many of the ideas put forward by the Spanish Government have been reflected in the report of the five presidents, so I can only express my satisfaction. For example, the report advocates the establishment of a gradual convergence process based on indicators. This process would lead to greater fiscal integration and the creation of fiscal capacity for the euro area. The five presidents consider it necessary to strengthen the monitoring of competitiveness as an essential element to ensure the stability of the euro and recognise the importance of further progress in the internal market and in labour mobility. The challenge now is that this report by the five presidents can be agreed as soon as possible so that its measures can be implemented immediately. Within this economic chapter I will also refer, as I pointed out earlier, to the Digital Agenda. We believe that this is a key area of action to ensure economic growth, employment and innovation as a productive model that takes full advantage of the opportunities offered by digital technologies. We are among the countries that defend long-term ambition and vision for this agenda, and in order to benefit fully from this technological revolution Europe needs, in order to cope with market fragmentation, to build support infrastructures and to contribute to the digitisation of industry. In this, as in the rest of the Europe 2020 initiatives, both the European and national administrations must coordinate their efforts to achieve the necessary synergies. The Internet and communication and information technologies are now reaching the entire economy. The global economy is increasingly a digital economy and the digital economy can be an important driver of growth, innovation and quality employment. In this new reality, the European Union cannot stay behind. It must strategically position itself and promote wealth creation at all levels of the digital value chain, from the content industry to the development of digital platforms and the deployment of networks. To this end, we must make progress in integrating the European digital market, while ensuring that consumer rights are protected and that content creators are adequately remunerated. Thus, in this European Council we have committed ourselves to progress in various areas of the Digital Agenda, as reflected in the conclusions. In particular, the European Union will take measures to remove barriers to trade in on-line goods and services, with the aim of ensuring that consumers have equal access to on-line goods and services sold in another Member State. Secondly, ensuring portability and facilitating cross-border access to content, ensuring high protection of intellectual property rights - this was included in the conclusions proposed by Spain -. In addition, in this area the European Union will ensure the protection of cultural diversity. Thirdly, to promote the development of digital skills among citizens. It is essential that citizens have the necessary training and tools to make the most of the advantages offered by the digital economy - this was also introduced in the conclusions proposed by Spain -. Fourthly, progress in standardisation; it is about Europe developing its own standards, those that best fit our market and industry, an issue that we discussed at the October 2013 European Council. The European Union then decided to give impetus to the digital market and to the development of the single market in telecommunications. This commitment has been embodied in a new regulation, by which important steps are taken. Firstly, roaming charges are eliminated from June 2017, i.e. European citizens will no longer have to pay a surcharge for their calls or messages when travelling within the European Union. Already since April 2016 the rates will be cheaper, by introducing the regulation limits to surcharges both for voice calls and for SMS or data messages. In addition, the regulation introduces strong rules to ensure the neutrality of the network, i.e. to ensure that citizens can freely and under the same conditions access all content of the network, without the platforms being able to discriminate or prioritize content without just cause. Ladies and gentlemen, I will never insist on this matter enough. Unfortunately, in Europe we are lagging behind in this area and there is an urgent need to speed up the pace. Allow me to bring here a few words with which I was beginning to appear before this House in October 2013. They are as follows: Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, already in this year 2013 more than half of the books published in the United States do so not in paper media, but in digital media. It is an example, among many, of the effects of the so-called digital revolution and the best proof of that is that, as you will have read a few days ago in the press, three of the world's first four companies by stock market capitalization are digital companies: Apple, which occupies the first place; Google, the third, and Microsoft, the fourth. 40% of new jobs created in the United States are jobs in the digital economy. On the contrary, 300,000 job vacancies in this sector were left uncovered in the European Union in 2011 and, if this trend is not reversed by 2015 - it said in 2013 - there could be up to 900,000 uncovered job vacancies. Europe is not having the leadership it should aspire to in this digital economy. The main companies are American. Digital jobs are created primarily close to the decision-making centres of these large digital companies or in emerging economies with a trained digital talent base, such as India. It is clear that Europe has to gain digital prominence. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to the Greek matter. If we had to explain in very few words the situation that had been reached in the negotiations between the Greek Government and the European institutions and the rest of the States of the European Union, it would be sufficient to read the first paragraph of the Euro Summit Declaration of 12 July. It says: The Euro Summit underlines the crucial need to restore a relationship of trust with the Greek Government as a precondition for a possible future agreement on a new programme of the European Stability Mechanism, the MEDE, and in this context the assumption of responsibilities by the Greek Government is key, and successful implementation will be a consequence of political commitments. Restoring trust or otherwise, returning to a previous situation that had been lost: mutual trust between the Greek Government, the institutions and the rest of the countries that make up the economic and monetary union. Overcoming the mistrust generated in recent times is the challenge we are trying to overcome. This was agreed unanimously. Last Sunday's Council set out a clear and precise road map to guide it out of the maze that had been reached in the negotiations. It is important to highlight this. A clear process has been defined, with specific content and time targets for verification. It is not an agreement of intent, it is a catalogue of concrete measures. As far as our position is concerned, Spain has always had a constructive attitude and, at all times, has been in favour of maintaining Europe's support for Greece; it is not something new. We have been in that position for more than five years, but, yes, in a framework of mutual loyalty. European aid demands the Greek Government's responsibility as a counterpart and there can be no doubt as to its willingness to fulfil its commitments. It is not necessary to detail the latest events that you all know, but the result of what has happened is as follows: First, the economic situation in Greece has deteriorated very rapidly, in a matter of months; it has gone from a growth forecast of almost 3% for this year to a decrease of between at least 2 and at least 4; it has also deteriorated the situation of the banks, not to mention the problems that the citizens of Greece are having, who are victims of a corralite and do not have free access to their money. Secondly, the unilateral actions of the Greek Government have also led to a huge deterioration in the confidence of its partners, and it is absolutely essential to rebuild that basis of political confidence. We must act on three objectives: to meet the urgent financing needs of the Greek economy, to lay the foundations for overcoming this situation as soon as possible and to return to scenarios of growth and job creation, and to restore confidence in the Greek Government's commitment to the euro and to the rules of the single currency. We have seen - we shall see what happens next - a radical change in the attitude of the Greek Government, without which no agreement would have been possible. This change opens up the possibility of negotiating a new bailout whose amount has increased significantly due to the damage suffered by the Greek financial system during these weeks of restrictions. In any event, the possibility of negotiating a third aid programme is open provided that Greece offers a very firm commitment to comply with the agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last three weeks we have had four summits to discuss the situation in Greece: the extraordinary Euro Summit of Monday 22 June; the European Council of 25 and 26 June; the extraordinary Euro Summit of Tuesday 7 July; and the extraordinary Euro Summit of Sunday 12 July. Four summits in three weeks, with the calendar subjecting us all to insufferable pressure; and five months the time running from the end of January to the end of June in which it is difficult to qualify the negotiating strategy of the Greek Government. Although it is almost telegraphic, it is worth recalling the substantial aspects of this negotiating process. Before the January 2015 elections, Greece had an existing financial assistance programme that remained to be paid out of €7.2 billion and met some of its conditionality, i.e. those measures that countries put in place in return for financial assistance. These measures are aimed at channelling economic policy and placing the country on the path of growth and in a situation where it can be financed on a regular basis by issuing debt on the markets. Support for Greece had allowed the Greek economy to grow again – already in 2014 – and its forecasts for 2015 were close to 3% economic growth, as I pointed out earlier. Syriza's arrival in power marked a radical change in the situation. The new Government proposed not only non-compliance with the current programme, but to reverse many of the reforms carried out. The uncertainty created paralyzed economic activity and massive outflows of deposits from Greek banks began to be recorded. This shows the uneasiness of many Greek citizens with the new situation. From the outset, the position of all euro countries has been clear. Europe has always been ready to support Greece, but within the Community law that we must all comply with and within a framework compatible with the economic policy decisions of monetary union. This has, of course, also been the position of the Government I chair. Thus, as early as February, the Eurogroup reached a minimum agreement: the Greek Government had to present alternative measures with similar effects to the current programme and, in return, the outstanding EUR 7.2 billion would be disbursed, and a four-month extension was agreed to end on 30 June. On the basis of this - I insist - minimum commitment, the European Central Bank has been supporting Greek banks. The Central Bank activated its emergency liquidity line for Greece; this line, which can only be used in the event of temporary liquidity difficulties, has avoided the bankruptcy of Greek banks and the loss of savings and deposits of many Greek citizens. Therefore, as early as February, the scenario was clear: the euro area offered support and flexibility; in return, Greece was asked to respect the rules and to launch a solid reform programme that would serve to correct the country's imbalances and generate sustainable growth that would allow it to refinance itself normally in the markets. In four months, however, the Greek Government did not submit proposals for reform which, within the framework of the flexibility of the February agreement, would enable it to be complied with and ensure the disbursement of money. We then had an extraordinary first Euro Summit, on Monday 22 June, in which there was a more constructive attitude by the Greek Government. Negotiations continued in those late June, however, and despite progress and close positions, on the morning of 27 June the Greek Government agreed to convene a referendum. All political forces of the opposition, except the neo-fascist Golden Dawn, voted against this call in the Greek Parliament. It is still unclear what the issue was before the Greek people; what the Government of Tsipras submitted to it were documents of a negotiation still under way and which also corresponded to a programme which, by decision of the Greek Government, had been allowed to expire. In view of the lack of commitments by the Greek authorities, the financial aid programme expired on 30 June without an agreement having been reached. Without the protective umbrella of an aid programme and with ever-increasing outflows of deposits, the Greek Government had to decree the closure of the banks and impose a corralite. The citizens saw their cash availability restricted to 60 euros a day and Greek retirees had to queue up to collect part of their pension, even with the support of the European Central Bank. If the European Central Bank had withdrawn its emergency line, the Greek banks would have broken down. The result of all this has been very negative for Greek citizens. From an expected growth of around 3 % in 2015 to a clear deterioration in the economic situation in Greece, as I pointed out earlier, from an additional 3 % to an increase of between less than 2 % and less than 4 % in 2015. In these certainly complex circumstances, because we did not use another expression, we met again at the extraordinary summit on 7 July. The steps to follow were then agreed upon. After the end of the second programme, the maintenance of European aid will require the granting of a new programme; a third programme which Greece had rejected, as you all know, previously; a third MEDE financial aid programme, in accordance with the rules of this institution. On 8 July the Greek Government submitted to the MEDE an official request for a third programme and on 9 July a detailed proposal for reforms to be implemented in order to obtain funding. This is a three-year macroeconomic adjustment programme with specific conditionality. The Greek request already included a detail of measures to be implemented immediately, very similar to the proposals being discussed before the referendum was called. This proposal was supported by the majority of the Greek Parliament, with the support of the main opposition parties: New Democracy, To Potami, Pasok and Anel, despite the vote against seventeen Syriza deputies. They also protested against the Golden Dawn Party and the Greek Communist Party. From here, as set out by the MEDE Treaty, the following is necessary for the adoption of a programme: detailed assessment by the institutions of the country's financing needs, the sustainability of its debt and the risks to the financial stability of the euro area and a unanimous agreement by the Eurogroup to start negotiations. Once this agreement has been reached, a detailed memorandum of understanding - MOU - of specific conditionality must be negotiated and agreed by the Eurogroup for the final approval of the programme. In addition, there are six countries that need the approval of their parliaments in order to carry out these procedures: Finland, Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, Estonia and Slovakia. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce to you that, although this procedure is not compulsory in our country, it is my intention to bring the Spanish position on the programme to Parliament for debate and, if necessary, to this House, because there are many resources that are being demanded to guarantee Spanish taxpayers. [[Applauds]] I am already telling you that I am in the best position to bring this matter to an end in the best possible way. Ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation carried out by the institutions shows how much worse the situation has worsened in these months. Public debt, which was sustainable at the end of 2014, is now unsustainable, and this is due to the relaxation of policies in recent months, which have led to the growing economic deterioration. Banks now need 25 billion euros to keep running. In addition to the strong outflows of deposits, there was an increase in outstanding or doubtful claims; doubtful claims reached 36 % of the total by the end of the first quarter of 2015 and defaults were already 8 %. For all the above, Greece's funding needs have increased significantly. The institutions estimate that a new programme of between €82 billion and €86 billion is now needed. Before the expiry of the second programme and the closure of banks, the estimated financing needs of the International Monetary Fund were EUR 52 billion. We thus arrived at the Eurogroup on Saturday 11 July and at the Eurosummary this Sunday. As I have already said, the position of the Spanish Government has not changed; we remain ready to support the Greek people within the European rules. This is also the position of the rest of the euro area partners, but the Greek Government has caused a breach of confidence and the first thing it has to do is to regain the confidence of the rest of the European partners. That's essential. We have lent Greece a lot over the past five years and this has been a major effort, especially for countries that, like Spain, were not experiencing an easy economic situation. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has already received more than EUR 200 billion in loans on very favourable terms - this is more than its GDP - and now it needs EUR 80 billion more. Support has not only been through loans. Already in 2012, the euro countries adopted restructuring measures that eased the burden of Greek public debt. This included an extension of time limits, interest rate cuts and a 50% write-off of the debt in the hands of private creditors, which resulted in a reduction of EUR 100 billion in debt to Greece. Greece was granted a lack of interest payments of 10 years and the principal of 30 years. Moreover, then, we European partners commit ourselves to taking further measures if necessary, as long as Greece also fulfils its reform commitments. The euro area remains ready to honour this commitment as long as Greece implements the MOU measures still to be agreed and not before the first revision is successfully completed. In the Sunday agreement, nominal debt write-offs are completely discarded. Ladies and gentlemen, at the 12 July summit we agreed that Greece will immediately legislate a number of reform measures in line with what was offered in its letter of request for a programme on 8 July. These measures include the following. Today: VAT reform, reform of the pension system to make it sustainable, full implementation of the European commitments on budgetary stability and the fiscal pact; Greece will also adopt a quasi-automatic rule on spending cuts in case of deviations from budgetary objectives. Before 22 July: reform of the judicial system to speed up procedures and reduce costs and full implementation of measures taken at European level to regulate bank resolutions and restructuring. Once the first reforms, i.e. today's reforms, have been approved by the Greek Parliament, the Eurogroup will be ready to agree on the start of negotiations for the third programme. This third programme will involve the International Monetary Fund, which has been a condition in all the macroeconomic adjustment programmes approved by the MED. Thus, the Greek Government is committed to formally requesting support from the International Monetary Fund from March 2016, when the current programme with the institution expires. With regard to the conditionality of this new programme, account must be taken of the deterioration of the situation in recent months and the increased funding needs. This implies a need for strong reform commitments by the Greek authorities in key areas for the success of an adjustment programme, i.e. pension system, product markets, energy system management, labour market and financial sector. The ultimate goal is to bring Greece back to a path of sustainable growth and get it to regain market access as soon as possible. In addition, the Greek authorities have committed themselves to speeding up the implementation of the privatisation programme. As part of the agreement, EUR 50 billion of Greek assets will be transferred to an independent fund. The sale of these assets will generate resources to deal with bank recapitalisations, debt reduction and finance an investment programme of €12.5 billion. Working methods with the institutions will also be standardised in accordance with the rules of the European Stability Mechanism. In the event of a financial assistance programme, the Greek Government shall consult with the institutions any legislative initiative in the areas relevant to the success of the programme. As part of this commitment, the Greek Government will reverse those reforms introduced in recent months that run counter to the objectives of the programme or adopt equivalent measures. Except for the Humanitarian Crisis Act, which was adopted at the time by the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, all this must serve to restore confidence between the Greek Government and its partners in the Eurogroup and to lay the foundations for a new programme that will definitively lead the Greek economy and enable it to resume the path of growth that has now been interrupted. Having said all this, the euro countries are aware that Greece has immediate financing needs for now; it has to deal with major payments with the European Central Bank in July, next Monday, and in August, and it has to resolve its arrears with the International Monetary Fund and deal with the situation of banks after more than two weeks of closure and write-off. The solution to this problem is not easy. There's little time. The first payment, as I have just pointed out, is to the European Central Bank for more than EUR 4 billion by 20 July, and Greece also has a non-payment to the Monetary Fund for EUR 1.6 billion. Once the Greek Government has allowed the second programme to expire, there are no mechanisms in place to mobilize the necessary resources rapidly. That is why we have agreed in this Euro Summit to give the finance ministers a mandate to discuss these issues as a matter of urgency. I would also point out that the Commission is committed to working with the Greek authorities to mobilise €35 billion over the next three to five years in support of investment and economic activity. As part of this support package, exceptional measures will be taken to enable Greece to make better use of the resources allocated to it from the Structural Funds. Greece also has opportunities for investment financing under the Juncker Plan. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have laid the foundations for a solid and lasting agreement to support Greece in this Euro Summit. It is now up to the Greek Government to fulfil its commitments and to regain the confidence of the European partners. In recent months a great deal of time has been wasted and the economic situation in Greece has deteriorated considerably. The most harmed in the last instance has been the Greek people. I now believe that it is time for the Greek Government to show wisdom and responsibility at a time. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been a sad story that can end up better than we could have imagined just a few days ago. It has not been miraculously, but by the recovery of wisdom and the recognition of the most obvious reality. It will be difficult to return to the lost levels of confidence, but it can be achieved. It will be more difficult to avoid the frustration of a part of the Greek people, who are induced to reject some proposals just over a week ago, is now forced to accept others more demanding because the situation is much more serious. It'll be hard but you can get over it. What I am sure is that the euro, our common currency and the best symbol of an ongoing project will emerge from this test. It will not be the first time in the process of European integration. If in 1993 the European monetary system entered into crisis, then the reaction to create the euro arose; if between 2010 and 2012 we suffered from the sovereign debts of the European periphery, the reaction was to increase the ECB's powers and the development of the banking union. We've already done it and we'll do it again. We will achieve new political commitments that will allow us to achieve new levels of economic, social and political integration, and that will be, have no doubt, good for Europe and good for the citizens who inhabit it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Interventions by parliamentary groups. Firstly, Mr Sánchez has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, after listening to you, believe me, with attention, I am certain that you have been a stone guest to a crisis in which Spain played a lot. Your appearance, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, is preceded by a black week for the Government in Europe; five days, five facts demonstrating the absence of Spain in the major European debates, which prove the failure, if not the isolation, of the Government of a Spain which in the past was a heavy burden of the Union and which today is only a light burden. [[Rumors]] The first of these events, to which you did not refer in your speech, was Mr De Guindos' bad candidacy to chair the Eurogroup. It was not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to be more papist than the Pope; it was not enough the support of the greatest defender of the grexit, that is, of the German finance minister, Schäuble; it was not enough the Spanish complicit silence to the most reactionary theses of the European Union, which advocated the expulsion of a Member State, that is, Greece, victim of of course of its mistakes, of the errors of its government, but also of the austerity imposed by Europe; it was not enough and it proved to be an insufficient price to obtain the presidency of the Eurogroup. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, today we know that Spain will pay a high cost for its institutional absence. The second of these events, ladies and gentlemen, as happened in Greece, has been to know that the Government of the Valencian Community, led by the one to whom the President of the Government promised never to abandon and always to be behind him, in front of him, lied in the public accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, the Valencian People's Party lies will cost Spanish taxpayers EUR 19 million. Who, Mr Rajoy, assumes the political responsibility for this deception? Before I presume, I believe that the Government of Spain should be humble enough to apologize to this new known deception. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the third of these events known this week to the Spanish Government in Europe has been the shameful use that the People's Party has made of the Greek drama. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards have witnessed in recent weeks the lack of scruples of a government president in the face of Greek suffering. In his despair, Mr Rajoy believed that the Greek corralite could vote for him, and with that the only thing he has shown in the eyes of all the Spaniards has been his low political height at a historic moment in the construction of Europe. The fourth of these events, ladies and gentlemen, has been that while I had the opportunity to speak with the European Social Democratic leaders to defend the interests of Spain, which were only passing by to avoid the grexit, I could not speak with the President of the Government of Spain, of my own country, in order to be able to agree on a state position. I knew of your opinion, Mr Rajoy, for your rallies and for your false beatings, never for the direct dialogue that the leaders of this House deserve as representatives of national sovereignty. In the Greek crisis, Mr Rajoy, you have set an example of partyism, not patriotism. The fifth of these, Mr Rajoy, has been asylum and immigration policy. The position of the Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, to this fact reflects the genuine ingredients of its policy, which are the blockade, the insularity and the insensitivity, insensitivity to a tragedy that is pressing for an immediate response and once again blocking the solution that our European partners want to implement as soon as possible. Five days, Mr Rajoy, that marked your blackest week in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the decisions of the Blue Bank have made Spain absent from the Community economic institutions at a key historical moment. We lost the chair at the Council of the European Central Bank, the Vice-President of the European Commission was lost and we were then told that it was in exchange for the Presidency of the Eurogroup; everything, Mr Rajoy, is a lie. The truth is that Spain never had less weight than with you in front of La Moncloa. Look, ladies and gentlemen, just a point. During the last parliamentary term Spain won the representation in the G-20 in hard fight precisely against a Dutch candidate. The irresponsibility of the current tenant of La Moncloa has made our institutional presence in Europe equivalent to that of countries such as Cyprus. This is the foreign policy of the Government of Spain. Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen, we support the agreement reached on Greece. I have always defended the irreversibility of the euro. Greece's stay in the euro was unquestionable to us, but we are also all aware that the euro cannot go on like this. What has happened these weeks could and should have been avoided. The European and Greek mistakes have been highlighted and we must learn from them so that they do not happen again. Ladies and gentlemen, what is clear is that Spain has played a null and void role in the Greek crisis. As I said, I would have liked your Government to have articulated a common position, a state position, of the Spanish as a whole, but it was not possible. He preferred to use suffering to obtain an alleged election benefit that will not be given. All this is based, ladies and gentlemen, on a number of lies by the Spanish Government. The first of these lies is to say that, thanks to the reforms of the People's Party and the Government of Spain, Spain is shielded from the tragedy in Greece. Lie. The Spanish stock exchanges have lost €62 billion in capitalisation and the differential with the German bonus reached 161 basic points, i.e. an increase in the risk premium of 30% since the crisis in Greece began. Decapitalization primarily affects small savers and small investors and a worsening of the financing conditions of our public debt would affect us all and would be of a magnitude more than considerable if those differentials were consolidated. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain is today far more vulnerable than at the beginning of Mr Rajoy's mandate, among other issues because of the sharp and crazy increase in public debt. [[Rumors]] Mr Rajoy, you inherited a public debt of EUR 70 billion and increased it by EUR 30 billion in just over three and a half years. That is to say, it has overcome the psychological barrier of the billion euros of public debt; by the way, 200,000 million euros more than it told us in its first stability programme that it sent to Brussels in February 2012. You should have been one of the main stakeholders in tackling the Greek crisis, because it has cost us billions of dollars to small savers in Spain and it has also cost us billions of euros to small investors in Spain. Instead, he preferred to threaten with the grexit before and after the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, I, as a Spanishman, feel sad and baffled when I compare the active and constructive role that European leaders such as Hollande or Renzi have had with their role, Mr Rajoy. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth euro economy, set up at the expense of the partners of the European right, has a profile in the face of the biggest crisis in Greece, Europe and with a strong impact in Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the great truth, the only truth, is that thanks to the European Central Bank, the contagion has been controlled, thanks to the fact that it continues to apply its weekly or monthly debt purchase for EUR 60 billion per month, including also the Spanish debt. The second of the great lies used by the Government of Spain - in particular, by the President of the Government - is that what happened in Greece is the sole responsibility of the radical left that rules right now in that country. I'm the one who thinks Syriza's government is wrong. He has been wrong in his strategy of confrontation and has been wrong in his alliance with the extreme right, with a nationalist front, and not articulating a Europeanist front. He has been wrong in the composition of his Government, with the total absence of women, and he has also been wrong in his lack of reformist pulse to put an end to the massive tax fraud that suffers from an economy like the Greek; by the way, making like you a tax amnesty that we reject. Mr Montoro, Mr Tsipras and Mr Rajoy united by the tax amnesty. This is good proof that the ends are touched. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, I see that you - and you in particular, Mr Rajoy - have a great ignorance of the Greek crisis and an interested amnesia of what has happened in Spain since you arrived in La Moncloa. Let me explain some key facts to you to understand. Greece already had in 2007, ladies and gentlemen, before breaking Lehman Brothers and the great recession began, a public debt of 100 % of its GDP and a public deficit of 7 % of its GDP, and it had them, by the way, with a conservative government, a member of the European People's Party, in which there was a certain Samaras, the candidate you went to support Athens in January, precisely in an election campaign. I remind you that the Greek crisis broke out in 2009, when a new socialist government won the elections and a 10% hidden deficit GDP and bills kept under the carpets. There are only two cases of hidden deficit sanctions in Europe, one in Greece and the other in the Valencian Community, with two governments of the People's Party, Spanish and Greek. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to defend that another Europe is desirable and possible. Of course, Greece must implement reforms and improve its competitiveness, productivity and institutions in order to have a stronger State that allows a more efficient economy. That is clear, but Greece will not be able to lower its unemployment rate or recover the economy without European aid. It is therefore a priority for its banks to re-enter the European Central Bank in order to eliminate the fear of bankruptcy and curb the corralite and for the adoption of the agreed investment plan to be speeded up. If Greece does not get out of depression soon and does not grow, it will not be able to pay its debt. From this rostrum, Mr Rajoy, I ask the Government of Spain to lead in Brussels the articulation of a European humanitarian aid plan that compensates for the suffering and poverty that millions of Greeks are going to suffer next year. They are European citizens who deserve our full solidarity. Mr Rajoy, you told us in this House that the banking union was already a reality, but the Greek corralite has shown that it was false. A crisis cannot be wasted. The Greek crisis has re-emphasized the weaknesses of the European project, and we must tackle them. Socialists are Europeanists and, therefore, we want to improve things that do not work well in Europe, in order to strengthen a political project that has achieved the greatest period of peace and prosperity for European citizens and for Spanish citizens in all our history. Jacques Delors, whom you mentioned in your first speech, Mr Rajoy, said that Member States could only gain sovereignty by sharing sovereignty. We must therefore move, as we have always advocated by the Socialists, towards the creation of a debt amortisation fund, the creation of a European treasure and a Community budget and the sharing of debt and the issuing of Eurobonds. In short, ladies and gentlemen, banking union, fiscal union, economic union, social union and greater democracy in the euro area. Ladies and gentlemen, the third lie used by the President of the Government and his Government is the irresponsible threat to a potential corralite in Spain. Mr Rajoy, you should be more careful, because you are not to teach anyone lessons. Do not forget that you are the only president of the government in the history of democracy who has been rescued. Yes, Spain was rescued; rescued as was Mr Tsipras' Greece, Mr Rajoy. By the way, you announced today that you intend to bring the Greek rescue to the Congress of Deputies - it seems to me good - but you should have done the same with the bank rescue in our country, which was debated and approved in the German Bundestag but whose approval in the Congress of Deputies was avoided. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, in January the Social Democrats, led by Hollande and Renzi, in the European Council, we reached out to the new Greek Government to negotiate an agreement and a third rescue which would have been infinitely better than the one they had just signed. Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, denied our help. He preferred to agree with an anti-European right-wing party and opted for the conflict strategy rather than signing an agreement in the best conditions for Greek citizens. It refused to introduce a credible reform programme and has led to a flight of capital and deposits into Greece, creating more unemployment, more poverty and more suffering. In 2012, Mr Rajoy, you were equally irresponsible, because you decided to delay the presentation of the budgets until the Andalusians voted and, therefore, did not know the tax increases and the massive cuts that you were going to make in health, education and pensions. In 2012 you passed a decree that caused Bankia's fulminant bankruptcy and, together with your candidate to preside over the Eurogroup, handled the banking crisis badly, which led to a capital flight of 20% of Spanish GDP and a deposit flight like that caused by Mr Tsipras in Greece. I remind you, Mr Rajoy, that the presidents of Bankia were his fiscal amnesty, Rodrigo Rato, and his predecessor, a former fiscal adviser to the People's Party, Miguel Blesa, when the Gürtel belt was starting to be set up within his organization. When you arrived in Moncloa you had 30 billion euros in the current account of the State in the Bank of Spain available of received inheritance that well managed would not have forced you to ask for the rescue. Since January this year Greek citizens, ladies and gentlemen, have taken deposits from banks worth EUR 50 billion. Between January and August - ladies and gentlemen - of the year 2012, when you were being rescued, Spanish citizens took EUR 170 billion out of the banks, that is to say 17% of our GDP. Mr Rajoy, you, like Mr Tsipras in Greece, caused the greatest leak of deposits in the history of Spain, it is you who threaten the well-being of our citizens. That's why they rescued you, Mr Rajoy, and that's why our banks came to owe the European Central Bank EUR 40 billion, that's 40% of our GDP, and that's why you had to apply cuts that sank the middle class and working women by sinking our economy with it. Unfortunately this is what is going to happen to the Greeks. On second thought, ladies and gentlemen, Greece and Spain have something in common: a government and a prime minister who lies to you like you lied to the Spaniards in 2012, which tells you that the rescue is a great achievement of the government, a loan under unbeatable conditions, as you told us to the Spaniards. Lie after lie. Mr. Tsipras will end up, like you, in breach of your election program. Mr Tsipras lied to the Greeks as you, Mr Rajoy, lied to the Spanish. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to dwell on the issue of migration and asylum policy, and in particular on the growing pressure of displaced persons in the Mediterranean. We are experiencing an enormous tragedy of deep roots because the crisis Libya, Syria, the migration and human crisis in the Mediterranean, are absolutely interconnected realities. The decision that Europe has made - you mentioned it in your first speech - is to relocate 40,000 refugees and resettle 40,000 people. The Commission has put forward a proposal, in our view, which is reasonable and supportive, to share among the Member States the burden of the current asylum and migration crisis that must be shared between the different countries of the European Union. In spite of this, ladies and gentlemen, last week, at the informal meeting of EU Ministers of the Interior, Spain, together with Austria, again blocked the implementation of the agreement, which is postponed until 20 July. To justify yourself, Mr Rajoy, you have come to resort to the manoeuvrable recourse of the so-called effect and even to parapet the Spanish unemployed. It is regrettable, Mr Rajoy, for the moral insolidity that your response represents for the situation of thousands of people who escape horror, war and repression by finding many of them death at sea, a human drama that is not worth the insensitivity or blockade that you are perpetrating and provoking at the European Council. It is also regrettable for the insolidity it shows towards countries such as Italy and Greece that they have reception problems that they cannot solve on their own. This is not the case, Mr Rajoy, as Europe is being built, turning its back on the needs of the Member States. And it is regrettable because with its unacceptable manifestations you want to ignore that we are talking about refugees and not about economic immigrants as the Frontex Agency, displaced from countries and war zones, is recognizing. We are therefore talking about asylum seekers, protected by international laws, by European treaties and even by Spanish legislation, that is to say by our own Asylum Law. There are human beings affected, thousands of people who deserve a fate that at least alleviates the horror they are living and you are dedicated to blocking Europe's efforts to help them. Mr. Rajoy, it's not all about politics. Mr Rajoy, there are moral and legal limits to your unacceptable position. And, Mr Rajoy, from this rostrum I demand that you put an end once and for all to the unbearable blockade that you are holding on to this matter. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by making a political reflection on the situation in our country. Mr Rajoy, since last 24 May the Government, with its president at the head, has used the press briefings of the Councils of Ministers, the press briefings with foreign leaders to disqualify my party and my person. I would like to state in this rostrum, Mr Rajoy, that I do not at all share your understanding of government and democratic debate. It is addressed to those who do not think like you in a derogatory tone, in all contemptive to those who do not lower their heads before their decisions, in a disparaging tone to those who believe that your Government has also made serious mistakes on the issue before us. I, Mr Rajoy, am of those who do not think like you, I am of those who do not lower their heads before their decisions, I am of those who believe as millions of Spaniards who have been wrong in these transcendental weeks and I say this to you from institutional respect and from the conviction of representing the opinion of millions of Spaniards. [[Applauds]] But you are not showing authority by being scornful, disparaging and disparaging; on the contrary, you are losing it. It is not showing security in its management; on the contrary, it is manifesting inability to deal with the problems of the Spaniards. Failure to respect the representatives of other political parties is giving up respect for himself, for his own responsibility, for what it means to be the president of all the Spaniards. Mr Rajoy, for a long time you have stopped representing all the Spaniards, for a long time you only represent yourself, and what seems sadder to me is that I think you are fully aware of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió, Mr Macias has the floor in the first place. Please, I ask those who are not attending the debate to clear the corridors.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that our Group, Convergence, as long as no one has professed a convinced and militant Europeanism. That is why, like millions of Europeans, we have experienced with concern the crisis in Greece, a country which is certainly important for Europe despite having modest dimensions. It's going to allow me a comparison exercise with Catalonia. Greece's GDP is EUR 179 billion, compared to Catalonia's EUR 209,000; the Greek population is EUR 11 million compared to Catalonia's EUR 7.5 million; Greek exports amounted to EUR 27 billion last year, less than half of the EUR 60 billion exported by Catalonia. On the other hand, we must recognise the great effort Greece is making in social policies; for example, pension expenditure accounts for 16.2% of Catalonia's 13.5 %. However, such a modest economy has seriously jeopardized the ever fragile political balance of the European Union. No one is hiding Greece's enormous geostrategic importance for Europe. We need Greece within Europe, ladies and gentlemen. It would make no sense if it were third countries that, in the end, guaranteed Greece the support it does not find in Europe. Therefore, Mr President, we can point out that the problem of Greece is not one, there are two: the problem of Greece and the problem of Europe. This weekend - as you well know and have told us - we have finally reached an agreement, a demanding agreement, a hard agreement, the saddest agreement or even an agreement that means the surrender of Greece or that turns Tsipras into the administrator of a protectorate; they are qualifiers and headlines that allow us to guess the drama of the solution agreed between the Commission and the Greek Government. It is an agreement whose implementation will not be without difficulties, as both the social response in Greece itself and the foreseeable difficulties for its approval in the chambers of several countries demonstrate. Mr President, in Convergence we believe that Greece's exit from the euro would have been an economic failure and a political failure; an economic failure because it would affect the credibility of monetary union itself and break the principle of the irreversibility of the euro by opening the door to the risk of contagion to other countries, perhaps even to Spain, but above all it would be a political failure, the failure of monetary union, which was based on the concept that economic integration would ultimately catalyse political integration. We shared a currency while, regrettably, economic divergences were widening. The French Minister of Economy, Emmanuel Macron, said a few days ago: Our economies - he said - have gone as far away as our peoples. For Timothy Garton Ash, professor of Stanford, the populations of the continent have become more pragmatic, cynical or disappointed with the European project. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the reality. If Europe wants to be credible before its citizens and before the rest of the world, it must fight to ensure not only economic stability, but also political stability and social cohesion. Europe, Mr Rajoy, cannot be synonymous with many citizens of markets, bureaucracy or economics, but must be seen as the first ally of citizens for their progress and well-being. Mr President, there are some good recommendations that we must make right now. We welcome your initiative to discuss the programme here, but it would be good if we could already share a few elements. Firstly, we must express our appreciation for the efforts made by Greece, its Governments and its people. I would like to give some data - sometimes they forget - so that an idea can be made of the magnitude of the effort that the Greeks have made. In 2014, Greece grew, its GDP grew, its fiscal balance was 3.5% of GDP - by the way, less than the Spanish one - and its very high public debt only rose from 175 % to 177 %, and even its high unemployment also decreased by 1.5 points, and all this at the cost of great sacrifices. There are two figures that need to be known in order to assess the effort and suffering of the Greek people. In these years of crisis and adjustment, public employment in Greece has fallen by 30% and family consumption by 40%. In Spain, the decrease in consumption has been 12% and we all know the costs it has had. The first point, therefore, is to recognize the efforts made by the Greeks. Secondly, Mr President, I am sure that you and a large majority of the House share with me that we cannot point to those who encourage mistakes. I am going to quote a textual phrase from a European policy: I was happy with the no to the referendum. A people in Europe has risen up against the technocrats in Brussels and has expressed their rejection of the austerity policy imposed by the troika, a true social carnage. Marine Le Pen. I am sure that we cannot aim to encourage the mistakes that may have been made - and they have certainly been - as extremist political forces like the one I have mentioned are doing. True, Tsipras has surely made too many mistakes and perhaps the greatest of them has been the arrogance, the arrogance of those who confuse their anti-system verborea with simply finding solutions. There is an image that has impressed me especially with this arrogance of some Greek rulers, it is the image of former Minister Varufakis coming out on a high-cylinder motorcycle with his wife and without helmet, absolute disregard for the law by whom should set an example before the citizens. Fortunately, this arrogance of Varufakis has now had a counterpoint in Tsipras' immediate willingness to negotiate after the referendum, which must be welcomed. You spoke of mistrust and I believe that Europe - and we are all Europe - must overcome this mistrust in order to deal with the situation. Europe, Mr President, cannot contribute to greater distance between its peoples. In this regard, we ask you for an exemplary attitude based on respect for the sovereignty of each Government and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, on the avoidance of pre-election use of discrepancies. Mr President, I believe that we must also recognise our own mistakes. Spain, unfortunately, does not count as it counted; the failure of Mr De Guindos - which we can personally regret - demonstrates the little political weight that Spain has in Europe and above all makes us long those times of that axis Madrid-Paris-Bonn. Mr President, time is the key right now. Draghi's asset purchase program, like the American Federal Reserve, allows indebted economies to have time in debt markets, which is necessary for structural reforms to start generating growth, and the new agreement, the third bailout, is precisely within this framework. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand we slow down the debt chronometer to relieve its unbearable weight, on the other hand there is an imperative need for reforms to recover growth, but, above all, time runs inexorable for the Greek citizens who suffer. Mr President, allow me to refer to the European Council on 25 and 26 June. As far as the European security and defence system is concerned, in Convergence we would like to stress once again the lack of a model of our own, despite what the Union's own treaties provide for. This gap causes permanent subrogation in the United States in genuinely European conflicts, as is currently the case in eastern Ukraine. There is certainly a need for diplomatic action, but also for coordination of the European defence system from the Member States' systems. This reality is very embryonic and too reactive, Operation Atalanta against piracy and now the operation to curb migration flows in the Mediterranean. Europe has unique security problems that are not often the priority of the United States and yet we are not equipped with our own defence system. With regard to migration, Mr President, do you not think that Spain should have a more receptive position? Our culture of hosting political asylums is certainly weak, in Syria there are many. It has cost two years to welcome the 241 committed since 2013, while in some Nordic countries they welcome many more, thousands of them. Hosting political opponents, persecuted people, is especially typical of a democratic culture, still to be fully developed in Spain. It's over, Mr. President. He mentioned that the European Council expressed its gratitude to Jacques Delors for his contribution to the development of the European project and awarded him the title of Honorary Citizen of Europe. We're glad. I will allow myself to quote, in order to finish this speech, some words contained in an interview with Mr Delors at The Telegraph in a month already distant from December 2011. Jacques Delors said: Jean Monnet said that when Europe has a crisis it gets reinforced. And Delors adds: But I think Monnet was too optimistic; you have to be too vigilant to get out of a crisis in a better position. Delors ends up pointing out that he, like Gramsci, prefers to say: I am a pessimist of intelligence, an optimist of will. This is our Europe and we have been demanding from Convergence that it not disappoint the European feelings of billions of Catalan and Spanish citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. I have the floor for the same group, Mr Duran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u8	Thank you very much, President. Mr Rajoy, it is true that the conclusions of the European Council of 25 and 26 do not speak of Greece except to refer to it, together with Italy, as one of the countries that should receive aid on the subject of refugees; but, from what you explained and this House knows, of course, without giving exclusivity, I will prioritise my speech on behalf of the Members of the Catalan Democratic Union referring to Greece. I sincerely believe that every effort has been made to take account of the circumstances and that for two or three days we are also in serious danger of dropping the Greek country and therefore leaving the euro. I will not go into depth to analyse, let alone judge, the role of the present Greek Government; it will be the voters, and I believe that rather sooner rather than later, who will have to judge and evaluate the management that the present Greek Government has done. I do wish to point out that in our view there has been irresponsibility on the part of this Government and that it has been the victim of its own game, which is a good warning for sailors of all kinds who stir the waters of populism. Manipulating citizens, playing with their feelings, playing with feelings for personal interests, supporters or by manifest unconsciousness of their own reality in the end makes a sad bill to society, but it also ends up passing a bill to that party, to that leader, to that ruler who is playing with all those values. It is also true, and I think it must be said, that in the Greek case, before the errors of the present government, there are other responsibilities, as true as the European Union also had them. If not, why, in 1981, was Greece allowed to enter when it did not meet economic conditions? Did you just get the geopolitical thing first? Secondly, why has Greece been allowed to fail to fulfil its economic commitments for so long? Thirdly, why have the International Monetary Fund and the European Union itself allowed Greek debt? Have they therefore contributed, beyond irresponsibility, to the irresponsible indebtedness of the Greeks, to that debt? Questioners without answers, Mr President, to whom, as I said before, you must certainly also, apart from the responsibility of the present Greek Government, report in your day. About the end result I want to say three or four things. First, the European authorities have admitted that the Greek debt level is unsustainable; the road to a Europe of transfers on both sides is therefore opening up, and that is the European Union's first handover to the agreement. The Greek authorities, on the other hand, have subordinated national sovereignty to the obligations of belonging to the euro area - with fiscal adjustments, structural reforms -, sacrificing short-term recovery for greater strength of growth in the medium and long term. When I value this agreement and talk about structural reforms, I cannot forget - and I used to comment on it with some Member of another parliamentary group - the month of May 2010. There was a debate in this House and a decision was taken. We act responsibly and thanks to the responsibility of others, but also to ours - not thanks to their responsibility - Spain did not finally follow the path of Greece. Who has won or who has lost in this crisis? Frankly, I understand that it is said that by respecting the irreversibility of the euro, he and the European project are strengthened as such, but the scars that I believe leave this debate are so deep that in the end I believe that the project is weakened. It opens the door for other countries to leave in the future, starting with Greece itself depending on the evolution of its economic situation. On the other hand, it is very complicated, following the Greek example, to opt for greater political coordination, when if something needs Europe at the moment precisely to respond to what has happened would be greater political coordination. Many questions have arisen during the crisis, many unanswered questions: lack of economic, fiscal, financial integration, we are not prepared for the next economic slowdown, starting from the fact that the current cyclical recovery, which is more or less intense, is already, in our view, very mature. Finally, before entering into any other kind of observation and continuing with the Greek issue, I will say that the lack of coordination and political convergence with increasingly weakened governments, coalitions or minority governments are venturing new amigos of crisis in the near future, which logically highlights the need for political stability in the whole of Europe. The Greek agreement, Mr President, should allow for a change of perspective, through a clear will to break with Greece over the past forty years and resist the temptation to impute the fundamental part of the problems to external causes, a change of perspective, I say, which leads to the view that their democratic legitimacy - in this case that of the Greeks - of which they are holders, cannot be imposed on the one which is also embodied by European counterparts, who also have their own democratic legitimacy. On the basis of these conditions, there is no doubt that the Greek structural reform measures will have to be accompanied by a clear plan to start from aid that really goes to what is Greece's economic growth; Greece must resume economic growth. Greece is important for the European Union as a whole and it is also important that some kind of reflection be made on what has happened in Greece. European integration is, Mr President, a continuous exercise of shared sovereignty. This implies, therefore, that the exercise of full sovereignty is no longer possible in these terms, and even less so if that puts in difficulty the sovereignty of other partners of integration. Shared sovereignty implies a collective responsibility that gives rise to solidarity between the partners and not the other way around, because in this case the order does alter the value of the product. I ended with regard to Greece, Mr President, saying that we are grateful as Europeanists - and no one has mentioned it - for Juncker's role as President of the Commission; the Commission has not in this case been a mere manager or a mere manager of the European Council, the Commission has had an important role in paving the way for the agreement to be made possible and it is fair to acknowledge it and it is also, as a European, to express my satisfaction. Beyond the Commission, it is clear that there have been three groups of States, Mr President. A group of States that have supported the thesis of: why do my taxpayers - be they Baltics, Slovenians or Portuguese - have to contribute to paying for Greece, when they have already paid and charged for their drastic reforms as a result of similar economic situations? Another group of States, which does not simply pass through Germany - and Germany does not end with Mrs Merkel; it is sometimes ignored that in Germany they govern, and there are no cracks from that point of view, the SPD and the CDU - but others even harder than Germany such as Finland or Holland, have not been willing to give any other kind - if I may say so - of a gift to the Greek Government. And a third group, with France at its head, which has had an active role - and it must be acknowledged - that they feared, and not without reason, the consequences of the grexit. All these as a whole were aware that Greece had to be saved in order to save Europe, but when, for the third time in this case, it is logical to ask for conditions, especially if confidence in the debtor has been lost; the treaties, Mr President, say that we are brothers, what the treaties do not say is that we are cousins. I am now going briefly to the content of the conclusions to tell you that in the area of migration I disagree with the Council's outcome. Not so much of the conclusions, because they say little, but of the political debate at the European Council. I do not agree that, when these asylum seekers or those people who, for economic reasons, need to enter Europe, each state says that this is my responsibility. It is a very serious mistake, one cannot confront the reality of asylum seekers and the reality of economic or immigrant refugees for economic or social reasons from the perspective of the competitive play of each State. Europe is, above all, humanism, the Europe that in its day founded Adenauer, De Gasperi and Schuman is and must be a Europe that can continue to look each morning in the mirror; a Europe that thinks, as its founders thought, that it is so much or more important the person and his dignity. In that sense, Mr President, I do not think the position of those who say open doors is correct; here everyone can enter, nor those who defend closing the doors to call and chant. Apart from seeking integration policies, apart from combating xenophobia, apart from other policies that we must implement within the European Union, the European Union as such and not the States must take into account, from a perhaps non-existent European foreign and security policy - which was also discussed at this European Council - that is the key to being more present and more active in crisis management. Behind every person who crosses or dies in the Mediterranean there is a human tragedy, there is violence and there is war. Therefore, Mr President, in this regard we are not pleased with the attitude maintained by the States in general and ours, the Spanish, in particular. To finish, I want to give you two last brushstrokes. Firstly, employment, growth and competitiveness. It has not given much explanation as to how the projects presented from the whole Spanish State are going. What we need is an economic return from these projects, the airports without planes, the AVEs without passengers, the lighthouses without streets. What the Juncker Plan requires, what Europe requires and what our society demands are investments with economic return. Mr President, I agree with the European Council on Jacques Delors. He deserves the title of Honorary Citizen of Europe. I end up with something that, if there had been a European Council yesterday, would surely have been included, which is the reference to Iran's agreement with the Western world on the nuclear issue. I am glad for that, but we must do everything possible to ensure that this agreement is complied with. It is a historic agreement, but if we do not do everything in our power to force Iran to comply with that agreement, perhaps instead of a historic agreement it is a historical error. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Duran. Mr Garzón has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Rajoy, we will not go rodeos and from the first moment we will tell you what we think is happening in the last few weeks and very particularly in the last weekend. We believe that the principle of the end of the European Union has been sealed, signed. We have had a fighting and courageous people, but a small people, whose economy represented around 2% of the European Union's gross domestic product, who fought against a giant; a giant who crushed him, a giant who has managed to double his interests, a giant who has been able to double the interests of a government that was valiantly defending its people, but a giant made up of a handful of bureaucrats who did not seek the recovery of the Greek economy - or seek it - do not seek the welfare of the Greek people. The only thing they have sought has been humiliation and punishment of a rebel Government, which is the only thing they have sought with that pact. It is a pact that does not serve to recover the Greek economy, it serves nothing other than to give an exemplary punishment, as we said. Mr Rajoy, what a paradox, the same mistakes that gave rise to the origin of this European Union are repeated. You know, Mr Rajoy, that in 1919 the Versailles Pact was signed, which was the economic origin, unfortunately, of the Second World War. It is from the drama of the Second World War that the European Economic Community is fundamentally born from. That Versailles Pact served to humiliate the German people, but it did not serve to recover their economy, that Versailles Pact is being signed in the European Union, but this time against Greece and, what a paradox, also signed by Germany. That Versailles Pact gave rise to the germ of fascism, gave wings to Hitler, just as the pact that you have signed this weekend is to build a highway for the far right of France and build a highway for what you have rightly pointed out as the neofascism of Golden Dawn. They are slogans of bureaucrats found, designed in the laboratory of European social engineering that do not attend to the welfare or material conditions of Greek citizens, who will never understand as after six years, being prescribed a poison that has not recovered the economy, will insist on that path again. Mr Rajoy, it is a long time ago that we are saying, almost a hundred years ago that Covenant of Versailles, but it is important to recover that memory and that is why, Mr Rajoy, we insist that we must know that memory and know those who wrote about it. That is why I recommend, I suggest that you reread Keynes' book The Economic Consequences of Peace. I imagine you have already read it, but in case I will give it to you today on behalf of our parliamentary group to make history, to remind you of the failures that led to the Second World War, the failures that led to the construction of fascism in this community and in this continent because they are repeated. Another huge paradox, what is it? According to French intellectuals, the European Union was built to prevent the German empire from having the potential to rebuild itself. It was believed that the designs of the institutional networks of the European Union would serve to forget about the panzers and, what a paradox, in the end, what we have is a new construction of a German empire, but that on this occasion it does not use the panzers and the military route, but rather economic tools that also serve to make the governments and peoples of Europe claudiate to impose the measures and to make them a protectorate. That is the reality, and in that we agree with European leaders such as Mélenchon or Beiras, who speak of the new German empire; a new German empire that uses economic tools, no longer needs the military route to bend countries. A third paradox is that you and other European leaders are talking primarily about the rhetoric of preserving the social state. It is a lie, you have just signed the gravestone of the social conquests built by the anti-fascist generations and that in this country it was the generations that built around the transition the social state. You, by signing the pact with regard to Greece, are doing precisely what you are doing to end that process. They have not dealt with the structural and economic failures of the European Union, something you have not mentioned, in fact. Europe is a myth and it is for a double reason, not only because it is the Phoenician woman, seduced by Zeus turned into a bull, but because, when we talk about the European Union and talk about social conquests, with a model different from the Anglo-Saxon one, we lie. It is a myth because what is being supported is precisely the social regression and the finiteness of these social achievements characterized by public health, public education, public pensions and public services. That is what you have done in Greece, to promote the privatization of all the remaining public services. Sometimes we talk about the democratic deficit of the European Union, Mr Rajoy. What can be called a democratic deficit, it is that there is no democracy, it is that it shines for its absence! The European Union is a hydride, it is a monster with many heads, where it is not well known who makes the decisions, if Merkel does it, the Eurogroup does it, the European Commission does it or the European Central Bank does it. The real boss in this really existing European Union is the financial power, which uses puppets, bureaucrats, in the European Union to finally decide the concrete policies. You talked about the Greek corralite this morning here. Corralito is the answer, it is the effect of the policy of the European Central Bank, which is not ideologically neutral. The European Central Bank has an ideology whose policies affect the social majority. We are talking about a deeply neoliberal European Union, and not just because in 1983 Mitterrand had to make a neoliberal turn or in 1986, with the Single Act; or in 1992, with the Maastricht Treaty, to which our group opposed because we knew what was next, but because we know that this European Union has been designed to avoid any alternative to neoliberalism. It's like a straitjacket; don't tell us then that there's no alternative, say they're building a multi-headed monster to avoid alternatives to neoliberalism, to avoid people being able to decide democratically. There is much talk of democracy in the European Union, but what happens when a people votes against the wishes of the European elite? What happened to the failed European constitution when the Netherlands, France or Ireland voted not in the referendum? That the elite led by the European Union decided that the voters had been wrong, that they had voted badly and that the same content had to be included in the Treaty of Lisbon. They are the same reactions that you had the other day when in the referendum in Greece it was said no, and it was said no, not to the euro or the European Union, it was said no to the austerity that you were imposing. And you have not made any reference to these problems, nor have you made any reference to economic problems either, because it seems as if the cause of the Greek crisis or of the Spanish crisis really were caused by the citizens who wanted to have access to a home, who wanted to have a car to go to work with when it really had nothing to do with all that. Nor does it have anything to do with whether Mr De Guindos is head of the Eurogroup or not, because the choice was between death and death, and we want life. Because it is not a question of the Spanish accent in the Eurogroup, it is a question of changing economic policies, of changing suicidal policies. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, Spain works on average 277 more hours each year than Germany, Greece, 650 more hours than Germany. Let's just get rid of the topic that the Mediterraneans are vague. It turns out that we are also cheap, because the average salary in Spain is 73% of German and in Greece 55% of German. We will also remove the ideology of the employer and its proposals. Do you know, Mr Rajoy, what is the fundamental problem of this European Union? They have deindustrialized us, bipartisanism in this country has deindustrialized, has turned our economy into an industrial desert; also in Greece, also in Portugal. Because it is productivity and the productive structure that explains the economic differences, and you never talk about this, not only do you never talk, but you kneel before the interests of Germany and the economic centres that truly benefit from the fact that there are no industries here and that this is simply a market to maximize profits. You have not spoken of this, you have preferred to continue to say that the problem is of the citizens, who wanted to have public health, public education and another series of privileges, when they are not privileges, but social conquests. It is not they who have been responsible for the crisis, it is not us and we, the citizens of the European Union, it is precisely the banks, the financial institutions, especially German and French, that have been enriched in recent decades, and you, Mr Rajoy, know it perfectly well. He knows it perfectly well because he knows that those who benefited from this economic model, the economic miracle of Aznar, Rato or Mr Montoro - who is also here - were primarily creditors, those who lent to speculators and builders, they have names and surnames: they are German banks, French banks, who lent to Greece for waste, they lent to the Greek governments to plunder public accounts, and it turns out that in the last six years throughout the European Union the behaviour of political leaders and the troika has been to rescue those responsible, they have rescued the banks. In the case of Greece it is truly spectacular, because they were the creditors of the public debt and in these six years of false, so-called so-called ransoms the risk has been transferred from those private banks to all of us. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we have found that suddenly six years later, the German and French international banks had nothing to lose with bankruptcy in Greece, who had much to lose were us and us, the citizens to whom you had transferred the risks, the losses and to whom you had prevented us from socialising the profits in previous times. Really amazing, really a scam. Mr Rajoy, you have spoken of something that I believe is very striking, you have said that debts are repaid. I suppose it will also refer to financial bailouts, because the figure that we knew last week was lost by this government that you preside over is 40.3 billion euros, 40.3 billion euros that we are going to pay all and all for its management, 40.3 billion euros for the rescue of a social minority. Really, Mr. Rajoy, I have to ask you: do you think we're fools? [[Applauds]] I have to ask you, EUR 40.3 billion, which is almost half of Greece's gross domestic product - almost half of Greece's gross domestic product - which we have lost, which we have lost the citizens to rescue the banks; and in Greece three quarters more of the same. Therefore, the only conclusion we can reach, Mr Rajoy, I say to you with respect but with total sincerity, is that you are thieves; you are thieves, white gloves of course, with enormous elegance, but you are Robin Hood's antithesis, because you rob the poor to give it to the rich.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u11	Mr. Garzón, you have to be careful with your vocabulary, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u12	I'm putting the last name on what I think is an extraordinary legalized scam mechanism. I am not calling Mr Rajoy a criminal, I am saying that there has been a monumental transfer of public money to private hands, that the rescue during these six years has been to rescue banks and not to rescue citizens. It has been 40.3 billion euros that we have put the citizens, who have put our parents, our mothers, our grandparents and our grandmothers, to rescue the financial system. You then say that there is no money for public health, that there is no money for public education, that there is no money for pensions and that we have to privatize, but there is money to rescue the friends. This is what we used to put in relation to that expression. I'm finishing up. Mr. Rajoy, I'm going to ask you the following. When have you been to Greece? You were, I think, in January of this year and you were not as a citizen anymore, you were supporting the leaders of New Democracy who were running for election. Have you seen the streets of Greece, Mr Rajoy? Have you seen poverty, poverty and inequality? Have you seen how life is there? Have you seen the suffering of these people? Because they are the result of the policies of the troika, the shamans and the economist sorcerers of the troika who have recommended poison policies for Greece. It is you who have adopted those policies and of course there are those responsible, Mr Rajoy. I'm not saying it's an abstract entity, it's responsible. You know, for example, because you have also witnessed that in the first person, who a few years ago the Greek Government made accounting traps to hide the magnitude of the deficit to allow its policies to continue. He cheated on all Europeans and also on the Spanish people and did so by the Government of New Democracy, the Party of the People's Party. It turns out that at that time the one who helped them was also a company, an American speculative investment fund called Goldman Sachs and it turns out that the vice president of that investment fund was Mario Draghi. So those are also responsible for this situation and you are not only not looking for those responsible, but in the end you make a thank you, because then Mr Draghi has the shame of acting from the European Central Bank to provoke corralitos and to act, I will tell you in a very clear way, as a true school thug, because what was the need to humiliate Greece? What need was there to humiliate the Greek people? The power of the European Union should have allowed solidarity, fraternity and the construction of a European Union of solidarity, and yet it has been sought to sign a pact worse than the previous ones. Why? Because the Government had decided to hold a referendum and to speak to the people. That is humiliating, and that should not be the daily practice of the European Union. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, six years of neoliberal policies have served nothing, except to rescue a social minority, of course, but they will do nothing to restore the economy and that is why the importance of the book I am going to give you right now. It will serve no purpose because on the streets unemployment, misery and inequality will continue to be a drama in Greece and citizens will seek answers. You have humiliated that people and that people will seek answers, so in history we unfortunately find that these experiences do not usually end well and, as we said, we also need to point out a symbolic character. Our continent is called Europe, the European Union, recovering the values and cultures of antiquity, and I do not know, Mr Rajoy, whether you are more in favour of the radical democrats of antiquity, such as Pericles, Clistenes, Efialtes, or whether, on the contrary, you prefer another kind of policy, but we cannot fail to point out how paradoxical it is that in the cradle of Western democracy, even if we speak of so many centuries of difference, the European leaders who take the name of that democracy are those who try to humiliate the Greek people and Greek democracy and in this way also to humiliate the economic alternatives that are possible and necessary and that, however, the door is closed to them only to preserve the banking benefits of a social minority. That is why this European Union has signed this weekend the beginning of the end because there is no political community that can be built against the population. There is no political community that can be built by humiliating the peoples who are part of all that. I do not know whether the handful of bureaucrats who are in the Eurogroup live in bubbles or do so on conscience, but what is clear is that in the streets of Greece and in the streets of Spain no one understands how the leaders work against the people and that is why we have to express here that we want to build a different European Union because we are Europeanists, but it is the true Europeanists who believe that it is done around the solidarity and fraternity of the peoples and that it is not done around the humiliation or the mob and thug behaviour of a handful of bureaucrats. Thank you very much. [[Mr Garzón Espinosa delivers a book to the President of the Government]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, I will not stop in this first speech in the repeated catalogue of good intentions that you have raised on some issues that are not new to the debate every time it comes from a meeting of the European Council. [[The Lord]] Therefore, I will not stop to reiterate to you our concern about the lack of vigour and political action, for example, in relation to the humanitarian crisis. You have raised here today some issues on which there has been compromise or on which you have spoken at those meetings. If we reviewed the interventions of other meetings after previous European Councils, we would find the same words. Nor will I stop at your appreciation of the need for a common European security and defence policy. We share it and also share the weakness - at least in our opinion - of the European position; still too little European, let me put it that way. Nor will I insist on another issue which you have reiterated again and which is the need for economic, political and fiscal union. It is also another issue on which every time there is a meeting of the European Council we speak again here and I have the opportunity once again to express to you on behalf of my group that, while there is no common position in Europe on economic and fiscal matters, we will not have the political unity we need. Therefore, on those issues that you have explained, we could say that there has been more of the same at Council meetings. I welcome on behalf of my group your decision announced here to bring to the House a debate on the consequences for Spain of the Greek rescue. I wish we had had the opportunity to talk about this before you had met with your fellow Europeans. I hope that this debate would have taken place as it has in other countries; without going any further, France, whose prime minister went to the meeting with a position discussed and adopted in its legislative chamber. You know that our group has asked for this on many occasions, but unfortunately it has not been possible. Something is better than nothing and you're going to come a posteriori to explain here what the consequences are. We would also have liked to be able to discuss the consequences of the Spanish rescue - which you deny has occurred - but in any case our group welcomes your decision to bring this debate here and, in that regard, we are waiting to be able to do so. I will talk about what you have defined as the Greek matter. I have found a way - let me put it this way and not take it wrong - somewhat light, if not frivolous, to define what you know and we all know it is one of the biggest political crises in Europe and the euro. What has happened has to do with Greece, but it is not the Greek affair, but it is our affair, the European affair. In this connection, I will start with that issue on which we basically agree, beyond some expressions I have heard in the debate between those who preceded me in the use of the floor. I think the referendum was a huge mistake for Syriza and Tsipras for many reasons. First, because he raised as a nationalist and not a national plebiscite what was a matter of interest to all Europeans. Solidarity relations between the European Union and a Member State in crisis were raised in that referendum, although he raised it as a nationalist issue. I called it national, but I was really nationalist, and I was talking about something that affected all Europeans. That was the first mistake of the referendum. Apart from asking an inexplicable - and by the way unexplained - question of dubious understanding, the approach itself was a disaster. Moreover, the negotiating position of the Greek Government worsened. It didn't benefit anyone. It's like the stupid theory, which is capable of hurting everyone and, besides, screwing up itself. In this case, exactly the same thing happened. It also turned a strategic decision, as I said at first, whether or not Greece was still in the euro and under what conditions, into a question of electoral confidence for itself, for Syriza and for Tsipras. It's all been a disaster. In my opinion, and from the perspective of the Greek citizens, than of their party, and of all European citizens, could not have been made worse. Having said that, Mr Rajoy, it would be unfair, absurd and false to suggest that the responsibility for what has happened is solely with Greece or your Government. Political responsibility is not only Greece's. Economic governance, which is as guilty as the crisis itself, was accepted by all Member States, this governance that has led us all where we are, also Greece. Moreover, all countries, and not only Greece, have made national policy with the so-called grexit. Political irresponsibility belongs to everyone. All countries have made national policy. This weekend's agreement is not a supranational agreement, it is an intergovernmental agreement. All the rulers have been thinking about how they explain it in their country and in all there has been a certain nationalism of country. To solve these kinds of problems - we have discussed it on more occasions, Mr Rajoy, and we might even agree - we need more Europe and fewer European countries. It may seem a contradiction, because Europe is the sum of the countries, but supranational and non-intergovernmental decisions would be required; supranationals are European and the others are the sum of the interests of all, which are sometimes contradictory and have not yet brought us to a good place. Our group believes that another rescue will not solve the economic problem, let alone the political problem. In all these weeks, two impulses have been seen here: the Greek Government, its leaders, wanting to raise the issue as a purely political problem and some European leaders, many, too many, wanting to raise it as a purely economic, not even economic issue. And it's not, because it's a political problem and it's an economic problem. I say that it will not solve the economic problem because the consequences in terms of well-being and inequality are and will be tremendous - then I will stop on this issue - and, with regard to the political problem, because uncertainty will not be reduced either, and I will explain why. Let us look at the new intergovernmental and not supranational basic agreement, as I said. For our group, it is substantially an agreement that insists on repeating the mistakes of the design of the past, of the design of the first programme for 2010, when the Greek debt was 130% of GDP, I think I recall, or of a figure of those characteristics, and of the design of the second plan for 2012, in which the strategy of the first one, which was already a failed plan, was emphasized. Despite the acknowledged failure of the 2010 plan, the same adjustment logic was imposed in the second rescue in 2012, and the same results were obtained. Why was it emphasized in 2012 in the same strategy that had already failed? I remember that the analysis that was made then - we also talked about it here in this House - was that the problem was not in the design of the plan - it was said - but in the lack of commitment on the part of Greece and in the failure to comply with the plan. Now, how is it possible to fulfill a plan when your economy is being devastated? I do not know whether or not Greece had the political will to comply when the situation was that of a devastated economy, what seems clear is that it did not have the opportunity to comply, from an economic point of view. Even if he had had all the will, the most wonderful institutions in the world and the most responsible politicians - which I doubt he would come together in all places and at the same time - yet Greece would not have been able to meet its commitments under that 2012 plan. Now we have a new deal. The new agreement reached on the morning of July 13 repeats, in our opinion, diagnosis, prescription and I fear what consequences of the past. Once again the mantra of non-restructuring of the debt/tax contraction is applied, yes, that so good - in quotes - has yielded results for Greece and for Europe. Moreover, quite perversely - I do believe that a corrective has been applied, if not punishment, to Greece; although it is said that no, we believe that a corrective has been applied, we will not call it punishment - nevertheless, it is insisted that the programme has failed only because of Greece. I have said this before, our group has no doubt that the new Greek Government is irresponsible, but we also have no doubt that a plan that cannot work does not work. The novelty of the plan is to introduce in this case two mechanisms to ensure - it is said - the Greek commitment: first, a parliamentary agreement; second, privatization of 50 billion euros of state assets, half of which will recapitalize the bank. With regard to the first, Mr Rajoy, you know that you have the value you have: none. Regarding the second, it seems like a joke because, how are the assets of the state valued? Selling state assets can take months, if not years. In the meantime, will the banks be recapitalized for that moment? In addition to practical impossibility, all this is quite obscene in political terms. The loans granted to Greece following the first two programmes, both in 2010 and 2012, amount to approximately 125 % of the Greek gross domestic product. That seems very generous if it were not because this money has mostly been spent on avoiding the non-payment of loans - as has been said here - both from the State and from the Greek banks to their foreign creditors, to which it has devoted itself. Only 11% of all this money has been spent on financing the services and investments of the Greek Government. Isn't this obscene, Mr. Rajoy? Only 11% to finance services and investments from the Greek Government. I think it would have been much more honest - let me tell you this - and better for the Greeks as a whole to have given that money directly to foreign banks. The Greeks, in any case, would not have received it, but at least the debt would not have increased, in addition to avoiding austerity and of course the precariousness of life for all citizens. That would have been quite embarrassing for all of us, but the result would have been generally better and also fairer. As I said, there is nothing left to eschew in Greece and that is why the new programme puts its eyes on public assets. The agreement also includes a recapitalisation of the European Financial Stability Mechanism of EUR 10 billion. This is the money that in the first instance will allow the Greeks to leave the corralito, it is said. This amount of departure is absolutely insufficient, as you and all of you very well know. Only between September 2014 and May 2015 came out of the Greek banks 33 billion euros, not counting the liquidity needs caused by the high ratio of loans unpaid by individuals or the fall in the value of sovereign debt. What, then, will the EUR 10 billion recapitalising the European Financial Stability Mechanism do? Not at all. This brief review of the situation, where we come from and where we are, may we ask ourselves what now, even if we put ourselves in positive terms. The new programme will add 25% more of GDP to Greek public debt. The conditions required of Greece will not be met, simply because they are impossible to meet. The programme will be reviewed if it is concluded that Greece has not fulfilled its commitments and financial aid will be suspended. Next is a new episode of grexit. This is the picture. In the meantime, Greek citizens will suffer even more, any hint of state welfare will disappear, public services will be further dismantled and, with this, any opportunity for social protection. The agreement, Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen, leaves Greece, for the moment, within the euro, but its citizens outside Europe, far from the well-being and progress that the European project could once represent. In the medium term, they'll both be out if we don't do something different than what we're doing. That is why we ask ourselves: who benefits from this agony? Mr Rajoy, I believe that in this situation in which we are in any case, a European solidarity fund or mechanism should be set up with Greece, a mechanism managed by the Commission and aimed at directly granting social assistance which limits the impoverishment and exclusion of the weakest groups affected by the economic crisis and adjustment measures, such as children, unemployed young people, the long-term unemployed or families without income. I would insist that a European fund be managed directly by the Commission and intended to provide social assistance directly to Greek citizens. We also believe that it is important and necessary for the European Parliament to include regular political control clauses in the implementation of the rescue programme and its implementation by Greece. In short, President, after this black panorama, our group wants to insist on something that I have just said. If we do not do something of this which I am putting to you on behalf of my group - and if we do so, perhaps there is no solution - what we will have decided this weekend is that Greece remains, for the time being, within the euro but the Greeks leave the European Union, the Greeks leave Europe, and that would be a catastrophe not only for the Greeks but for the whole of Europe and for all those whom we consider ourselves, first of all, European citizens. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, of course I, too, have to start with Hélade, I have no other remedy. I understand that on many points I may repeat some of the things my colleagues have said, but I believe that it is necessary to establish a party and group position on this issue. An agreement has been reached; it does not come out of the euro. If things are going well - and a series of conditions still have to be fulfilled - the corralite is done. Well, we saved the situation. It does not come out of the euro, which would have been not only a real disaster for Greece but also a very dangerous situation for the rest of the European economies. Nor do we know how the markets would have reacted and even what would have happened to the stability of the currency itself. So, there was a lot of play. Let us hope that the corralite will end and the Greek economy will begin to move something. Of course, it is better an agreement than nothing, both for the Greeks and for the rest, and that will end - although, unfortunately, I think it will be momentarily - with uncertainty. I have to admit, I don't understand anything about each other's movements. I'll start with Greece. With the Greeks it has happened to me as to the monks of the Middle Ages, the Amanuenses, who dedicated themselves to transcribe and, suddenly, arrived at a paragraph and wrote: Graecum est non legitur. As the English say: It's all Greek to me. I don't understand anything about the Greek strategy, it's absolutely tangled to get anywhere. To begin with, calling a referendum is a real abdication of responsibility, because if you have been placed as president of the government and ruling, it means that citizens have given you a mandate and it is about you looking for the ways out, not returning the ball to the citizenry abdicating your own responsibility. On the other hand, they knew positively, because the dates were expiring, that the convening of a referendum was going to provoke a corralite that was going to sink even further the Greek economy. So, it's stepping on yourself. It turns out that from a non-enthusiastic, two-day euphoria with the no - and it seems incredible, but the left sometimes plays a rascal nationalism - we have passed to the yes, but also to the yes with capitals. I have tried to find a word summarizing all this and, of course, the Greeks have it; it had to be the Greeks who had it. By the way, it is a word that is not even in the vocabulary of my learned companion Mr Olabarria. We've been talking about it before. The word is enantiodrome, the notion that everything is going against it. And I already believe that it has gone against it, and also in an accelerated version. Enantiodrome, a veritable misconception. It has also been the case that, in a national emergency situation such as the Greek one, not all parties have agreed to go hand in hand and present a common front, a positive front of proposals, in an attempt to agree with the European institutions. It is a mistake that military spending doubles in percentage with reference to GDP the rest of European countries and that a party on the left also refuses to lower it, because, among other things, it is allied in the government with a more extreme party on the right. It is a misconception made from Europe that closer links with Russia are not going to provide anything, no economic or strategic exit. Finally, there are some deplantations that have sometimes reached the level of insults, which have certainly not helped to find an agreement. But did Greece and Tsipras really have any alternative other than the agreement with the European institutions? No, because neither the Russians were going to give them an economic solution nor the solution was to return to the drachma. And I'm worried about Schäuble's position, which he insists again today, and then I'll come back to this. And it wouldn't be a solution because getting out of the drachma would mean drastically lowering your economy and that which had a value of one hundred was going to have a value of twenty, other than that by that simple exit the debts were not going to be erased, but they were maintained and with less money to face them. Moreover, with such a low economy, there was no hope of reactivating or getting out of the way. There was no alternative coming out of the single currency and I am convinced that Tsipras knew that, because with the referendum we have been called upon to send a letter accepting more or less, except for certain clarifications that could have been arranged, the European offer. This was the situation and we have found ourselves, at least because of what you read in the press and because of the information you have, with a Merkel and some Nordic and Baltic countries engaged in a double twist of nut, with a Hollande and a Renzi trying to secure things but that twist of nut was not so great and, Mr President, I do not know what position you are in. I know, because he told me at the end of June when we spoke on the phone, that he believed that Greece should remain within the euro. But in relation to this concrete negotiation, taking into account how things have gone, in your speech you have not made clear to us what position you have aligned with, what you have defended, whether you are in agreement with this agreement that you have reached with Greece or whether you believe that another solution would have been better. I insist that the Greek position has been a disaster. I agree that they have ignored so many warnings and that there are a number of structural changes that have not been made, even though some of them had been committed. But what about the European Union? How many meetings do we have on this matter? It's a real chapter film and, unfortunately, we haven't seen the last of the series yet. I understand that in the face of this problem there is a disjunctive about how to act. Do we act as bankers or as Europeanists with a political project? Maybe virtue is in the middle. Of course, you can't say that money doesn't matter, that nothing happens. You pointed out that the Spanish contribution through the MEDE after this third rescue will be approximately 10 billion. If we divide them between about 40 million citizens living in Spain, they are 250 euros per person; a family of four members will have to contribute 1,000 euros. And well employed are if they serve to maintain the euro, if they serve to maintain the European project, if they serve to get Greece out of the crisis. That does not mean that no attempt should be made to get them back as far as possible. But look what I tell you, even if part of it is lost, well-used is if it serves to get Greece out. But have we really left things settled down with this agreement, or have we spent our time putting the gums on it? Because without the referendum things could surely have been simpler. But, Mr President, despite the referendum and that the verbal criticisms - not only there, at the meetings that you have had, but also in public - could have been great and hard and that more money could be needed, which has led to the corralito and the exit of capital, beyond that, with regard to guarantees, why has not the offer been kept approximately at the end of June? And beyond humiliations because everyone has to respond to what he has done, to the responsibilities he has and to the debts he has incurred, I insist, beyond all that, why more guarantees, more pressure and faster reforms if that can perhaps drown the Greek economy and I no longer say to the welfare of the Greek citizens themselves? It would have already been enough humiliation for Tsipras to have to swallow the agreement that was proposed to him at the end of June and without putting so much pressure on the citizenry. The key, I repeat, is whether this agreement will serve, under these conditions, to get Greece out of the situation in which it is or whether we are engaged in a fourth rescue. You're gonna need a lift? In October, too, we have to ask for a lift. Today Mrs Lagarde again insists that a further restructuring of Greek debt is necessary in time, and I imagine that it is also necessary to remove it. I know that interests, shortcomings and deadlines can be relatively comfortable, but in the situation where it is, with the highest unemployment in Europe, with an economy absolutely weakened, with a capital flight, with a lack of absolute confidence in the markets, will Greece be able to leave under the conditions that have marked it? I ask because there are also two matters that Germany has promoted that concern me because they denote what I told you before. The money is there and we have to try to get it back, but to some extent, I insist, because if it is good for Europe to move forward, we could think of losing something because it would have been useful. But what worries me is whether, from a Europeanist point of view, the funds of assets that were raised in Luxembourg can be raised, outside the control and practically the knowledge of the Greek authorities themselves. And it was also said: to pay the debt. That is indeed the view of the banker, who is unacceptable to someone who wants to lead the European Union. How does Germany want to lead the European Union, in a political spirit of integration, ultimately with a pro-European national sense, or looking at its interests? It is true that in the end 50% will be for bank restructuring, 25% for investment and only 25% for debt, and remains in Athens. But the approach scares for its lack of Europeanism, as well as the approach to the temporary exit of the euro. Would we really be solving something with the temporary exit of the euro, so what I said earlier about what would happen with the return to the drachma? Would we be working something out? No, it gives one the feeling that Mr Schäuble wants to get Greece out of the euro, and not just the euro, but sometimes gives the feeling that even from Europe. And I believe that in this we must stand on the wall because this situation, Mr President, is the perfect storm for Eurosceptics. And I am not talking about the United Kingdom, Eurosceptic per se; I am talking about all those parties that exist from Hungary to some of the Scandinavian countries or Mrs Le Pen's, etc. Whatever you do, it's going to be bad, because if you give money, they'll say, "Fuck you, look at how we're being abused by the nationals of every country, but they have money for these Greeks who don't do anything! If you don't give money, they will say: so we will all end up, like Greece, look at what the European institutions are doing! The perfect storm for Eurosceptics, Mr President. Therefore, this Greek issue cannot be constantly on the agenda of the European institutions; it must be put on the agenda now. If you have to give it generously, you have to, but you can't be putting partial patches on. There is indeed a lack of confidence, but there was also a lack of confidence, Mr President. However, we cannot turn around again because what we are doing with that is expelling Greece from the euro, and we are playing Europe, Mr President. It is not just the Greek interest, however much face - let us say so - that they may have had some; let us not be obsessed with that face of some will not be that we are treading ourselves when making certain decisions. Consequently, we are faced with a solution, or not, as you would say, Mr President. You'll find out! By the way, a solution that passes through the Greek Parliament - to see what happens - today and six other European parliaments, and you tell us that you will also bring it here. I honestly don't understand why you're going to bring it because you're already hearing the opinions of all the groups. You have adopted things unilaterally and with the sole support of your parliamentary group by an absolute majority. It does not bring - as Mr Sánchez has already said - the issue of bank restructuring, nor that of Gürtel, as the rest of the House's parliamentary groups are unanimously asking, and it continues to ask for the opposition every week and, however, it brings this issue which we are already discussing here and which we are mostly expressing in a positive way. I don't get it, unless it's for a pre-election press release of those reds coming from! And watch out for Syriza! By the way, let's remember that Tsipras is a disaster, I said it from the beginning, but this Greek situation was created by Nea Dimokratia - I think it sounds closer to her - and the Pasok - which also sounds close to others. I therefore sincerely believe that it is not necessary and creates some uncertainty in the Spanish position within what has been the European agreement, which is absolutely unnecessary. I insist, I only understand it if it's done in pre-electoral code. If you don't, Mr. President, you'll explain to me what the reason is. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The lessons that at least we draw from what has happened are, firstly, that it is clear that the governance mechanisms of the euro need to be improved; secondly, we cannot leave our duties until the last day, when all deadlines expire. Of course, this has to be done by both sides, also by the Greeks, but we cannot run out of time until we see this problem coming and we have to find a solution. We must get to work now, follow the Greek issue continuously and not solve it by chapters but definitely to cut that advantage that the Eurosceptics are taking. Finally, as a result of this, what is needed? More European integration, as we have been insisting over and over again on this type of debate. Finally - I have already exceeded the time, but I will do so briefly, Mr President - I will say something about the conclusions of the European Council. I want to make an observation. How long have we been talking about the famous Juncker Plan! Nothing, we're still unconcreted. We don't know where the money is, what the plans are, what the projects are. When you said that even Greece can count on the Juncker Plan, I thought we don't know if Spain can do it, so the Greeks... I suppose you'll be referring to the EFSI, who occupies a paraphyte and says nothing. I used to say that for remembering. As far as immigration is concerned, Mr President, I am concerned about one thing. It is announced - and then will be discussed in this House - the launch of Operation Eunavfor MED. That part is to put a barrier, put a wall, cut the mafia, etc., but it's about no boats coming. And then it is said that we will have to tackle the problems at their origin - I say yes - and that we will talk to the governments, etc. Who are we going to talk to? What is causing this wave of recent times is the terrible Syrian crisis, united with the Iraqi crisis, the crisis in Eritrea and the Libyan war. The other day an agreement was signed which is not yet being implemented and which is also partial, in which not all groups have entered. The Libyan war itself makes it impossible to even talk to a Libyan government. Let us not talk about South Sudan or even a country that is sending many immigrants and that apparently seems stable and with a government that can be spoken to, that is Pakistan, but that has a real civil war in the south, in Balochistan, and that is causing huge migration. Who are we going to talk to? Who are the interlocutors? What are we talking about? What the European Union will have to do is face the Syrian crisis, take sides and stop looking from the barrier. It's the same on the Libyan issue. And if not, the flow of immigrants will continue and continue to come. Put the patch of the ships, put a wall again, neither goes anywhere nor is humanitarian nor is it Europeanist. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Joint Parliamentary Group, which accumulates the turn of the replica also in this turn. Mr. Larreina, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, when I heard you talking about the recognition given to Jacques Delors, I thought that perhaps this recognition could be the last exemplary European citizen, because what is really being done now - hearing his description of what has happened at all these European summits - is totally betraying the initial spirit of the founding fathers of the European Union. I am convinced that Jean Monnet would not be identified at all with the Europe that you are driving, that you are building, because you are returning to the origins, to that coal and steel market. Why? Because what originally was a means, an instrument to build a Europe of the citizens, a Europe of solidarity, you are turning it into an end in itself. In other words, the market is the end in itself; it is no longer an instrument, a means to build this Europe of the citizens, this solidarity Europe, but in the end it is to put everything at the service of the markets. What you have explained to us in your speech is in that line, and the conclusion I have drawn is that we are facing an increasingly insolidary Europe inwards and outwards. We are faced with a Europe that, in that spirit that you said of compliance with the rules, of compliance with the laws, is ultimately betraying itself. Because, by also collecting a Greek concept, the laws must be applied with epikeia, that is, in the spirit of service to those who are directed. For you, epikeia does not exist in the application of these rules, because they are rules that turn the back on the citizens of the European Union. He said it was an insolidary Europe out. You have referred to all that humanitarian crisis, to that blue cemetery that goes from the Atlantic, around the Canary Islands, to the sea that surrounds Greece; that blue cemetery that denotes a humanitarian crisis that you are eventually turning into some kind of procedure. I was frightened when he said that the model that Europe is going to adopt is the model of the Spanish State because the model of the Spanish State is that of the CIE, that of Tarajal, that of that delay and blockade in the granting of asylum that is taking place in the last few months in a totally inexplicable way and that endangers thousands and thousands of people who are threatened in their countries of origin. It is also an insolidary Europe within. The Greek theme is a clear example of this insolidity. What is being discussed in Greece is the model of Europe, whether we are in a Europe of the citizens or in a Europe of the markets. In the end all the measures that you are taking turn your back on the structural problems of Greece and the whole of the European Union and, above all, turn your back on the citizens of Greece. All such rescue aid is not intended for the people of the street, it is not intended to solve the serious problems of humanitarian crisis that are taking place in Greece; it is intended to solve the problems of the banks and the States that are the creditors. That is a reflection that needs to be done. For once the International Monetary Fund is right, Greece's debt is repayable. By the way, the debt of the Spanish State too. The latest OECD report is very clear when it says that there is a serious danger that the Spanish State's debt will reach 170% of gross domestic product. It's a serious real danger if we don't go to the root of the problems and we're not doing it. Greece's debt is unpayable, and that must be addressed. In the meantime, they're putting on patches. Just as your Government has promoted a Second Opportunity Law - limited, by the way, because it is not really a second chance as we would have liked many - I think that a second chance law should also be promoted for Greece, that is to say, to end that financial debt of abusive interests, in most cases, which are drowning Greece and can also drown other States of the European Union, we are talking about the Spanish State, Italy or France. In the end, we are faced with a problem that is structural and financial, caused by this submission to the markets and that turns its back on European citizens. You have focused on the referendum as a serious mistake, forgetting the outcome of the referendum. In my opinion, what needs to be considered is the outcome of that referendum, as a very significant percentage of Greek citizens disagree with this policy. In Europe this flow is going to increase, most European citizens are becoming less and less identified with the European institutions because they see that they are turning their backs on citizens. They have become a kind of closed circle of technocrats who are losing touch with reality and, above all, are losing touch with that primordial idea of the European Union serving citizens, of a social Europe, of a Europe of the citizens, of a Europe of the peoples that is attentive to these daily needs of the people. That is the fundamental problem, and that is exactly what I have missed in your attitude in these European councils. The Spanish Government has to stop being like Mrs Merkel and the technocratic approach within the European Union. It must begin to connect with the demands of the citizenry and it would have to join that current which is growing in the Spanish State and in the whole of the European Union - in Euskal Herria it has a special presence - of giving prominence to the people, of taking into account the people, of building Europe in another way and of doing politics in another way. Those technocratic approaches must be abandoned and people's needs must be met. Mr President, I shall conclude by talking about another matter to which you have referred, employment, the economy and competitiveness and the digital agenda. In that area you could do much more. The Spanish Government is turning its back on an important reality of the digital economy because the digital economy has two approaches, one purely economic financial technocratic and another more social approach. I believe that the digital economy in Europe can have a broad development with regard to everything that moves around free software, open source software, of great potential and that it has a concept of socialization of knowledge that is important. In Europe free software has tremendous potential in the face of those approaches that you have said about large American companies such as Microsoft, Macintosh, etc., but you, the Spanish Government, are not taking advantage of it. In Germany, its entire system of government turned to open source software precisely for security, illegitimate surveillance by the United States. If the Spanish Government chose to move its entire administrative system to open source software it would boost the digital economy and empower a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises that are pioneers in Europe in digital software and that have a presence in the Spanish State and especially in Euskal Herria. That would be an important way to boost the digital economy and to boost the proximity economy and technological development in Euskal Herria, the Spanish State and the European Union. Finally, Mr President, I return to the beginning of my speech. I believe that the principles originating in the European Union must be taken into account; we must return to that Europe of the citizens, to that social Europe and turn our backs on that Europe which is subject to markets, to the financial economy and to the speculative economy. That is the demand for the citizenship of Euskal Herria, the Spanish State and the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, today you present yourself here as a winner, even as a bit of a vigilante, but for us this is a great irresponsibility and even a great frivolity because you should feel - as I know this will be asking for pears from the elm - a little embarrassed. Note that from the photograph of the Azores - Bush and Aznar - we move on to the next photograph, where you are next to the hooligans, the most hooligan leaders, those who make political masons of those who provoked the crisis, are managing it and also intend to get much richer out of it. With this you commit an irresponsibility to the extent that you are responsible, first, for violating Greek sovereignty, blackmailing the Greek people; second, condemning the Greek people to misery, putting the Greek social and legal state for sale and, finally, dynamising the European dream. But, look, they do not demand, for example, justice for the Greek tyrants, for the Greek leaders, both social-democratic and right-wing, who sold to their people. We are not talking about this, we are talking about attacking Greek sovereignty, condemning the misery of its people, invigorating the European dream and, above all, with a new paradigm, which is to threaten the peoples because, in the background, the subliminal message is the threat, it is a warning to navigators: your well-being, the peoples of Europe, can never contradict our economic benefits. This is the message of this new Europe that the satraps of the troika are coining. This is the currency of those who are designing a new Europe, where the peoples of the Mediterranean will have to act as maquila of the peoples of the north: work cheaply for the peoples of the north if you do not want to stay settled in misery. I insist, I think you should be ashamed of all this today. Nevertheless, the Greek Government and the Greek people have given a lesson in democracy, because the dignity which the Greek left had, which the present Greek Government had, by putting to the vote in referendum what had to be done, even though then the realpolitik forced other circumstances, the dignity of asking the people what was the way to choose, did not - I repeat - do neither the Greek right nor the Greek social democracy nor did you here, both the Socialist Party and the People's Party, because you understood perfectly at the time of deciding, from the back of the people, a modification of the Spanish Constitution in order and effect to make pre-eminent the payment of the debt to the troika and subordinate the welfare state. So lessons of democracy to the Greek people and to the Greek left cannot be given from the current Spanish state and with the Spanish political system. As I have no more time, I regret not being able to make some references to everything that has been said or to the conclusions relating to the humanitarian tragedy in the Mediterranean Sea. I will take advantage of the subsequent debate, in which you put to the vote by this Parliament the military participation of the Spanish army in the Mediterranean operations, then we will express our position, but it is clear that you do not attend to reasons in everything that affects the great drama that is taking place in the Mediterranean, because it is calculated, unfortunately, that 30,000 people will die drowned in 2015. Faced with that, the conclusions are frankly very poor; but we will have an opportunity to discuss them within a couple of hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mrs Fernández, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, let me say that the European Union has shown in recent weeks that it is of insolidity in the serious crisis of emigration, because even considering it a humanitarian tragedy, as you say, they are incapable of acting accordingly. One states throw the ball at another, proving that they do not want to take real solutions to such a serious problem, and I will not repeat the figures just given by the spokesman for the Republican Left. Greece. They were more committed to defeating the government of Tsipras politically, Mr Rajoy, than to bringing economic solutions to the Greek drama; that is why they manifested themselves inflexible. And to restore confidence, as you say, they committed themselves to getting the Greek Government to lose the confidence of their people, humiliating it, Mr Rajoy. They do not forgive the referendum; they do not forgive it because it was a forceful demonstration against European policies, as was also a forceful demonstration by the citizens of the Spanish state in the last autonomous and municipal elections. In other words, neither the Greek people nor the people of the Spanish State are in line with the policies that are leading to impoverishment for the entire population. Once again, Greece was subjected to insufferable Leonian conditions for its population. You can be happy to defend European economic power as well, as much in favour of economic control as in favour of people's impoverishment. And as an example, your management, Mr Rajoy, so submissive to the troika's orders and carrying out all the required reforms. A clear indication of his Government's failure is the Social Security data: as many members as 2011 but much less income. For example, in 2007, with the same increase in social security members, 8.26 % was raised; on this occasion, Mr Rajoy, as a result of the management of his Government, barely 0.96% of the collection was made. That is only the clear demonstration of the precariousness and impoverishment in which you leave the citizens of the Spanish State at the end of your Government. By the way, Mr Rajoy, we also need to talk about this European solidarity, about that same solidarity policy which is making it possible for the Galician agricultural sector to be caught up in poverty by the inability of the dairy sector to survive. What have you done, Mr. Rajoy, so much submission, so much not being able to defend people's interests? They have been left out of all the Community institutions. That is certainly the role that lies with the subjects and not precisely with a government that should be acting in the defence of the welfare of people, which you, with the data I have given you from Social Security, have not done because, as I say, those data are proof of the precariousness and impoverishment in which you leave the citizens of the Spanish State. We do not need to tell you much more because that means that your reforms and cuts have resulted in workers having less wages, worse working conditions and reflecting that same data in that deficit Social Security, but to which you are so happy to offer - above - benefits to demonstrate in an election campaign that you will give things to the people. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mrs Oramas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rajoy, I'm starting with immigration. In the summer of 2006, 80,000 people arrived in the Canary Islands in three months. We are the southern border of Europe and Spain has to be on the side of Greece and Italy because in that year 2006 we cried out to Europe alone for a problem that had to be of Europe and of European resolution. I agree with what you said about counting the Spanish experience, but at the moment the Spanish Government has not been seen with firm and determined action to resolve immediately, not in time and timidly and with statements back by some government minister, the situation of chaos that Italy has, in Lampedusa, and that Greece has, with a very difficult economic situation, as we saw in the Canary Islands with 80,000 people at that time. We have to take a step and not hesitate to stand next to Italy and Greece because at any time, Mr Rajoy, we can have that humanitarian drama again as very well as you say we live not only with those who arrived, but with those who stayed at sea. With regard to Greece, I will tell you one thing. Yesterday I remembered from May 2010 - before Mr Duran i Lleida commented - because at that time Europe demanded from Spain a significant cut of 10 billion euros and that night the president called us all the spokespersons. We had been told at a certain point that Mrs Merkel had guaranteed the abstention of the People's Party and then Mr Duran i Lleida and I, Convergence i Unió and Coalition Canaria, with a sense of state because it had an electoral cost, abstained so that we could make that cut and not intervene in Spain, which you did not do in electoral terms. But it's past and one day you'll know the whole exact story of that. It is a good thing that there is now no People's Party in Greece in electoral terms, as it happened in 2010, and that opposition, with the electoral cost it will surely entail, will support measures that are necessary. I agree with you that Greece has to make the same efforts as the pensioners of the countries that are helping it and that Greece cannot have an insurmountable defence spending when the two countries are in NATO. Of course you have to make efforts Greece! What concerns us and what I raise with you are other issues. The International Monetary Fund and many experts have said that 10 million Greeks and the evolution of the Greek economy, even with the best prospects in the coming years, do not have the capacity to repay 280,000 million euros. Yesterday there was the scream that it's not going to take off. Is this a patch? Is the restructuring of the debt not being put on the table, again due to electoral issues of governments such as Spain? Let's get things straight. Everyone acknowledges the inability of Greece, even the German minister last night has made statements in which he says that this is not going to work and that the current conditions are not going to do anything. And what does Mr Tsipras, the President of Greece, say? He says he doesn't believe in this. If they don't believe, they're the ones who have to implant it and convince them... I say that Greece must remain in Europe and the necessary sacrifices must be asked of it, but there must be hope at the end. We cannot ask for sacrifices, that they go to suicide and that in the end Greece has no way out. So we only postpone the problem two, three or four years. Let us make the decisions with solidarity. Let us not make decisions or postpone them for electoral matters in our country. Let us have the height enough to be able to solve and take a step forward on issues that have an economic cost to the Government and Greek citizenship, as well as to the thousands of immigrants who are currently in Greece. The other day I told the minister that we had a very positive experience in Spain with the management of unaccompanied immigrant minors, part of the problem that Italy has. Let us put it on the table, help resolve an issue that would not represent a burden on unemployment in Spain and give an example of solidarity showing that at a time of European difficulty we are at the side of Greece and Italy. In any case, I want to say publicly that we regret that Don Luis de Guindos is not in that position. Of course, it had our support and we hope that Spain will be represented in international bodies in the near future, as it is due to its political weight, its economic weight and the height of this country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Baldoví, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to make a preliminary consideration, Mr. Rajoy. I've waited three years, six months and twenty-four days to tell you this. In the investiture debate of December 20, 2011, you said to me in a disparate way: If you do not win even in your people. In Sweden the PP has had more votes, 30 points more than you. Democracy was not invented by you, Mr Baldoví. Okay? This is literal. Mr Rajoy, I say to you with pride and no spirit of revenge that in my village, Sweden, Compromís has doubled the PP in the locals and we have drawn more than 15 points in the autonomous ones. I did not invent democracy, Mr Rajoy, but neither did you. [[Applauds]] After this small and comforting relief, I turn to the matter before us today, to Europe. [[Laughter]] A few days ago you said: The Spaniards can be quiet; Spain has a serious government. He insisted: Greece, in addition to seeking solidarity, must fulfil its obligations. But what was our surprise when yesterday we had lunch with this headline: The European Union confirms the fine of 18 million to Spain for manipulating the Valencian deficit. It is a fine of almost EUR 19 million for manipulation, for serious negligence of the deficit and debt statistics of the Valencian Community through the systematic concealment of part of the health expenditure. Can we be calm, Mr. Rajoy? Is this meeting your obligations? Are you a serious government? You have done the same as your Greek New Democracy counterparts, yours, with whom, by the way, you have prepared to campaign. A manipulation of the bold and gross deficit, and now we are fined 19 million. One question: Won't they pretend that the Valencians will pay that fine? Because it was the government of the Valencian PP that manipulated the accounts and it was the government of the Spanish PP that audited them and sent them to Europe. This is the tranquillity and seriousness of what you presume. In his speech he has given a catastrophic version of the new Greek government, which almost seems to have taken four ruling legislatures for six months: unilateral actions by the Greek government, everything goes wrong. I want to give you four reminders. I remind you of the evolution of Greek debt. In 2005, it was 100 per cent of GDP and in 2014 177 per cent of GDP, with governments of their New Democracy or Pasok counterparts. Something will not have worked well with the policies imposed in the first two rescues, as it has caused 25% of the fall in Greek GDP. I also remind you that it was your New Democracy counterpart, along with the investment bank Goldman Sachs, who hid the debt and deficit data. I remind you that the IMF itself has said that Greek debt plans are not going to work. And I remind you that Spain's debt in 2011, when you came to rule, was 70% of GDP and now it is 97%, despite its policies, of which you so much presume. I'm done. Mr Rajoy, I have the impression that you always side with the liars - New Democracy, the government of the Valencian PP - and the powerful, the bankers, who then end up slapping him in the face with Mr De Guindos. Mr Rajoy, with liars and bankers we will never build a social Europe. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Alvarez, you have the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I rise to this rostrum to try to convey to you my views on matters concerning Europe. I will not focus on immigration and security matters, which would greatly shorten my time. In my view, there are a number of issues that explain your position on policies relating to Greece. First of all, I do not think that Spain is playing a relevant or leading role in this matter, Mr President, given the example we could theoretically set for European countries. I have the feeling that your evasive wandering, practicing your favorite sport, which is just hearing what I see, only leads us to irrelevantness in Europe, said with all due respect. Secondly, I believe that the holding of the Greek referendum is by itself a challenge of nationalist struggle against the outside world; that is, partners and friends yes, but the donkey in the linde. Mr President, a new European and geopolitical picture is being defined, not only economic, and statements like yours on 9 July - if the referendum wins, Greece only has to leave the euro - do not seem to be prophetic, but rather aggressive and perhaps lead to Greece opting for the Dutch and not for Mr De Guindos, social-democratic beds apart. Everything seems to be heading, with costs for everyone, especially for Greece, but it is arranged. I'd like you to clarify this contradiction for me. Thirdly, it is shown for the umpteenth time that Europe is a great craze where the word perpetual negotiation is magical and where it is not appropriate to question and exhaust the value of the country itself to the first difficulties that have arisen. I say this because you, at the dawn of the new time, quickly put in circulation the adjustment machine, from which we will take time to get out and from which some will no longer come out in terms of employment. I then told him that cuts in social benefits were a song of submission and that there would surely be other ways to vae victis towards the citizens. What would have happened, Mr Rajoy, if the adjustment machine had slowed down with lower social costs by increasing the presence of the solidarity machine with Spain in Mrs Merkel's hands? What has more political value, Mr Rajoy, to distort citizens more in breach of electoral commitments or to consult them and to require them institutionally and solemnly in view of the critical state of our economy the need for cuts in the welfare state in a framework of austerity? What has the most political and ethical value? Don't you think that even ransoms should be approved by all contributing States? I have just heard that yes, that you are a supporter - and I congratulate you - because we are talking about 10 billion that together with the 26,000 are 36 billion of the wing that fly us and we will really never see them again, in my opinion. Perhaps we would be like now, Mr Rajoy, but you would perhaps have a better sign before society and we would not have the feeling of being a vegetable at the service of Germany. I believe, Mr President, that trust, solidarity and austerity are concepts that must coexist in the construction of Europe and also in the Spanish government of autonomy, where the concept of solidarity - if I may, Mr Rajoy -, as in the case of Asturias, shines in its absence. Let's see - I've heard you - if we get on Juncker's train, if we see it happening - you already understand what I mean by Juncker's train - at once. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Alvarez. Mr Salvador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u29	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Three are the themes of last June's summit. We agreed on the analysis of the migratory phenomenon. We need to treat this problem as a European, not local or neighbouring issue. We must set objectives, agree and activate a common strategy and do so under two principles: solidarity and responsibility. I am convinced, Mr President, that all countries are aware of the gravity of the problem, of the challenge it poses for all to manage it with humanity, without demagogicism and without deception. We will trust that they will do well because empathy with the most disadvantaged is also one of the founding values of our European Community. On security and defence, I suppose we will all agree that threats and challenges, attacks on our security and our freedom are getting stronger and closer every day. It is obvious that any effort of intelligence and cooperation will help to combat them more effectively. [[The Lord]] I know that the State Security Forces and Corps are working to be prepared for any contingency, and I want you, Mr President, to convey to them from my group our gratitude and also our encouragement. Indeed, we in the Navarro People's Union believe that a political pact against terror, such as that signed by the main forces of this House, is very useful, because unity is undoubtedly the basis for the best response to this phenomenon. They also talk about employment, growth and competitiveness. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we can look to the future with a more positive view than we had four years ago, I think it is objective. It is true, as the conclusions show, that in order to cope more successfully with the future we must use, take advantage of, regulate, understand digital technology much better. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a global race to know, to control, to take advantage of, to innovate. More than a race is a lockdown, because we can't be disappointed with it, but we must take advantage of it and face it with global platforms that allow us to optimize its obvious benefits and in turn defend us from its many risks. Allow me to conclude by making a small reflection on Greece which can also be useful for Spain. In order for us all to enjoy our rights, politicians must be careful to fulfil our duties. It is always true that there are those who propose easy solutions to complex problems, and as is often said: easy and wrong. Over the past four years, the most irresponsible thing would have been not to meet our commitments; the easiest thing to do, to follow as if nothing; the hardest thing to do, to recognize mistakes and the most responsible, to act and to make decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, if today the experts agree almost unanimously on the improvement of our country - and the growth forecasts say so - it is because your Government and Spanish society have acted fundamentally in a good sense. The European Union can be accused of many things, but not of lack of solidarity. The question is, how far can you help someone who doesn't know how to help themselves? Mr President, I recognize my limitations and the agreement is too much to be easily interpreted. I hope that it will help to restore confidence, which is most important, although it is true that many questions remain open, especially because many of the conditionals are in the hands of the Greek Government, which is the one who must assume them. I am therefore afraid that we are still far from the final outcome of this tragedy. I'm done, Mr. President. Although we are already in the pre-election period, my party remains confident that beyond the urgency of some, the sectarianism of others, the demagogy or facilism that is being established in our society, this does not prevent future consensus on important issues such as migration, security, defence, growth, employment and competitiveness or the very solution of the Greek problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the People's Group, Mr Hernando has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the House, Mr President of the Government, it is clear that the European Union is facing important challenges that will determine its future of integration, consensus and progress. Since the end of the European Council on 25 and 26 June, these challenges have worsened and the European Union, as the President of the European Council has said, has experienced the most critical moment in its history. This consideration is not exaggerated. Europe has been immersed in a situation of extraordinary complexity as a result of the effects of the Greek crisis. The erratic action of Mr Tsipras's government has jeopardized the solidarity effort of all Community partners to find a way out of the worst economic crisis on this continent since the last century and to strengthen the viability of the euro. The irresponsible actions of the Greek Government in recent months have not only placed the European Union in an unnecessary situation of uncertainty, but have particularly harmed the Hellenic people themselves who chose them. We find it regrettable that in less than six months a political party has been able to obscure the future of Greece and lead the European nation's forecasts of abandoning the second bailout and growing by 2.9%, to a new economic, social and institutional recession that has called for them without referring to a third bailout; a recession that has been further aggravated after the closure of the banks, the convening of an opportunistic referendum and the political games of a government that have only served to squander their confidence in the rest of the European partners, to collapse their economy and to place the Hellenic country on the verge of suspension of payments. At a critical time when high-ranking rulers were demanding, Mr Tsipras and his Government have shown a clear lack of office, as they also demonstrate - and have demonstrated today - some leaders and some spokesmen, especially Mr Sánchez. It is also a great irresponsibility to aggravate the situation intentionally with the support and applause of populists and anti-Europeanists from other countries, including some training here in Spain. If these are the winds of change that some bring and offer, we already know where they want to take us and each other. Mr Sánchez, do not be a demagogue, do not confuse the rejection that results from the irresponsibility of a government that prefers to freeze pensions for a while rather than reduce its military spending with our sentiment towards the Greek people. Spain has always been and will be next to the Greek people. Spain's solidarity with Greece is indisputable, as shown by the billions of euros that we have lent it, as well as the additional 10 billion that we will have to contribute to this third rescue at a time of difficult time for all, also for the Spaniards. Without a doubt, we want Greece to remain in the eurozone, but we also want the rules and rules governing this single currency club to be respected. That is to say, we firmly believe that European solidarity must go hand in hand with Greek responsibility, and that the money borrowed must be returned; and the money borrowed is not - as some said - a big business; it is simply a show of solidarity. I would therefore very much like to welcome the announcement by the President of the Government to appear and bring to the House the results and wishes of Spain's new contribution to European solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain in 2011 looked a lot like Greece in 2009. Both countries, governed by left-wing parties, had entered a dynamic of uncontrolled public spending, with two-digit deficits financed by the foreign sector and with tremendous destruction of the productive fabric and employment: 3.5 million people had gone to unemployment in Spain while a government had tried to alleviate this situation by creating 300,000 public jobs and making an unsustainable bubble of public spending. At this point without return the decisions of the citizens were very different in the two countries. In Spain 11 million Spaniards gave their support to the People's Party, which, supported by that majority and with the stability of this House, has managed to avoid the rescue, Mr Sánchez, which the Socialist Party was asking us from those seats, which some of its star records were asking from their stands and which other star records of other political groups were asking us to shout. Spain maintained national sovereignty and made the necessary reforms to ensure the viability of the welfare State. Mr. Sanchez, you're too young for your memory to fail. This is what happened in Spain: we are faced with the rescue, the decisions that you left prepared for us to take and we were able to turn the tortilla and take the country forward. That's what we did. [[Applauds]] Meanwhile, the Greek people, after a succession of weak governments, sometimes with unstable coalitions that made it difficult to make decisions, and after two ransoms and a debt relief, surrendered themselves to the false prophets of the extreme left populist party, Syriza, who has taken him without reference to this third ransom. The results of those decisions are what we see today. In Spain all the officials know that they are going to collect their payroll, even the one they had to leave in 2012 to make a great effort and help square the accounts; that the 9,300,000 pensioners will have their pension on the first day of each month; all the citizens know that they can go to the cashier to take money and go on vacation with the peace of mind that on the way back everything will continue to work. Also, many workers, pensioners and self-employed in Spain know that this July they will have to pay less taxes thanks to the People's Party, the People's Party Government and the decision of the President of the Government. [[Applauds]] There is a second reason why we can put ourselves on the skin of the Greek people. It is not, as some say, to appeal to fear, but to establish a reality. Before Syriza's arrival to the government it was expected that Greece, as I said before, would grow by 0.9 % in the first quarter of the year, exactly the same as Spain. Today Spain has met its goals and will grow even more in the second quarter; Greece does not. We know well that the road is not easy, that it requires sacrifices, that there are no shortcuts or magic recipes. How will we not know if only four years ago we were the unreliable partner, with serious economic imbalances, who hid bills and made up public accounts, Mr Sánchez, those hidden debts of 27 billion in the deficit of 2011, the 16 billion of the health care, the 40 billion of the debt of promotion, the 80 billion of the commercial debt, the 25 billion of the deficit in the electricity tariff, the more than 100 billion that we had to contribute so that the autonomous communities and the municipalities of the country could pay their bills because there was an irresponsible government that had annulled a law, the Law of Economic Stability, and had induced them to improve their situation through excessive increases in public spending? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we were the partner who put Europe's future at risk - some have lost their memory -, the partner who left his people hanging -46 million Spaniards coming out the back door - giving up presenting the budgets of the following year, with the certainty that it would be on the other hand, that the People's Party would have to face this situation limit and would bear in the eyes of the public with the ultimate responsibility for a rescue that they would take for granted and that they would rush to request. That era and that is the origin of your speech today, Mr Sánchez, but fortunately your speech today has nothing to do with the reality or history of this country in the last four years. Ladies and gentlemen, just as we know that the road is not easy, we can say that the effort and sacrifice of the Spaniards to get out of the crisis has been worth it. Just three years after the horrific socialist, the European Commission recognizes the seriousness of our Government in implementing reforms whose success is unquestionable, showing Spain as the example that other countries of the Union must follow. That is where the success and recognition of a country lies, not in the number of high-ranking officials we can have in international institutions, let alone if those high-ranking officials are people like Mrs. Aido, Mr. Clos or Mrs. Pajín, who act in the United Nations as an element of opposition to the Government. Not to mention Mrs Alvarez, who had to leave the EIB for corruption. That's not the prestige we have or the one we're looking for. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the UN Security Council today, and when meetings are held in Australia from the G-20, the Spanish Government is asked to explain what its prescriptions have been to turn the tortilla and the ruin left us by the Socialist Government. The International Monetary Fund highlights today that we are the most growing and growing developed economy in the coming years and the OECD that we are the country that most employment creates and will create in the coming years. Today no one considers it impossible that our commitment to have 20 million people working in our country can be a reality, and it can be a reality, no doubt, if the course does not change and the same policies that are being made now are still being made in the years 2016 and beyond. Today Spain is growing at annual rates of 4%, today Spain is growing twice as much as the rest of the countries of the European Union, today Spain is creating half of the employment created throughout the European Union. And that has been thanks to the structural reforms, all of which have been denied by the Socialist Party in this House and voted against. The reform of budgetary stability, the financial system, the promotion of entrepreneurship, the tax and tax system, the new labour market and the energy sector have made it possible to change the productive model of this country. And, ladies and gentlemen, we also intend to change one fundamental thing, this is a government that will not have to go out the back door, as the previous government did, we will not have to run out of this House. That is why we will bring the General Budgets of the State next year, because we believe that this is how things are done, giving stability, continuity and confidence to the institutions and to our European partners. Ladies and gentlemen, some have spent all this time denying recovery or simply saying that recovery was a matter of the winds coming from outside. But those same winds, Mr Sánchez, have come for others, here we have what has happened in Greece and we see how France or Italy do not grow at the same level as Spain, perhaps because they have not made the reforms. I am not going to talk about what is happening in Spain, because then I would have to talk about what is happening in Andalusia, a region in which one out of every four unemployed people we have today in Spain lives, which maintains an unemployment rate of ten points higher than the national average, which has the highest percentage of households in difficulty, which leads the statistics of evictions in our country. With the same winds as the others, it remains and is the autonomous community record in cuts, record in taxes, record in unemployment and also record in corruption, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] This solid growth of Spain is the result of the efforts of a government and above all of the Spanish citizens. The rest are false mermaid songs that reality unmasks from minute one. There are those who talk permanently about rights, especially from the left, and we talk about rights but also about obligations and responsibilities, which is the way to talk to citizens and trust them, because they know how hard it is to get out every day ahead, they know how hard it is to have to lift the blinds of your business every day and wait for customers to come in and have financial availability to buy. That is why it is very important to improve the economic opportunities and incomes of families, and that is why it is also very important, when possible, to reduce taxes, as the Government has done. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not figures. Behind all these achievements there are people. It is these 3,157 people who have found a job every day last June, it is the 80,545 young people who have found a job last year - one of every two young people who found a job in Europe did it in Spain -, it is the 90,000 women who have been able to leave unemployment in the last two months in our country, it is the 898,755 jobs created since January last year, very close to the target of one million jobs between 2014 and 2015, it is the 302,000 fewer unemployed that there are now since the government of the People's Party took over the country, it is the 109,417 new entrepreneurs that there are since December 2011, the 18.2% more of new indefinite and full-time contracts that have been signed in 2015 regarding other years. Ladies and gentlemen, macroeconomics is the sum of the micro-economy of the different citizens, of those more than 46 million Spaniards. They are lords, 1,105,648 daily and real stories that since the worst time of the crisis - February 2013, when this government was able to stop the bleeding that you left - have found a job that allows you to face your life and that of your families with better expectations. That is the social agenda of a Government, an agenda that serves to create employment, because employment is the best way to combat inequalities, to create hope for the future for all citizens and to bring about the doubts and ghosts of the past. This is the social investment, the investment in a national plan for the inclusion, in the Comprehensive Family Support Plan, in the National Plan for Children and Adolescents, in the strategy for employment and youth entrepreneurship, in that reform of basic education to incorporate as an element of competitiveness our young people into the world today, that reform of education that has made it possible to incorporate dual training as an essential element for our young people, that has reduced school dropout by more than 4 points, that has increased the number of scholarships, which has allowed today more young Spaniards in the university who have more public aid than they had just four years ago. That is the policy of the People's Party and of Mr Rajoy's Government, the policy of doing so and also the policy of doing so, because we have a lot to do. We have complied with our electoral programme, Mr Sánchez, and we are proud to have done so. This is what has fortunately made it possible to change things in Spain. Today, Mr Sánchez, you have come up to this rostrum and told a story that is only the result of your obsessions and your complexes; of your obsession to hide that in the last municipal elections you obtained the worst result of your party's history, and you have intended to hide it with pacts of all against the PP, violating the democratic decision of the majority of Spanish citizens in the various cities that voted for the Popular Party. [[Applauds]] It is also the fruit of its complex on the left. You intend to lead and lead the left, but you're wrong about the kind of left you have to lead. He would have to lead a moderate left and, unfortunately, has embarked on a project that only aims to make him the leader of the radical left, competing with Mr. de Podemos, with those of Compromís and with another series of characters who are going through political life today in Spain. Mr. Sanchez, you have spoken of lies. I'm going to remind you one: I won't have to deal with populism before or during or after because the PSOE is a left-wing party that looks at the center and attracts the center. Mr. Sanchez, shut down and let's go. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Less lies, Mr. Sanchez. We have seen how you have been able to light up new forms of government for all against the PP to prevent the People's Party from ruling where citizens had decided by majority that it would rule, which was in the cities where the elections had been won. That is sectarianism, Mr Sánchez, not that the President of the Government is not on the agenda of his lordship to call him every day to see what needs to be done in the Eurogroup, as you seem to have, unfortunately, mentioned this morning. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party government has also made a great deal of money over the years here in the House for the struggle for political regeneration. We have adopted the most important anti-corruption package and I would have liked to find the loyal support of the opposition, the loyal support of some political groups. We haven't had it; we don't care. Today we have legal guarantees that some cases of the past will never occur again and never again, and this is very important for all Spanish citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, a country's stability needs consensus, it needs agreements and that is true, but there are some who favour incommunicado. They are those who make sectarian criteria with a majority force like that of the People's Party, with a government vocation and who have brought great things to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that a principle must be defended, and that is why we are going to propose to you in what is left of the legislature some measures and we will propose, now that there does not seem to be a municipal election until four years from now, a new reform of the Local Electoral Law, in line, of course, with the Socialist Party's programme, with a fundamental objective, ladies and gentlemen: to govern in the institutions who win the elections, not those who win the agreements, the components and the programmes in the offices, who never know who they are. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is certainly the owner of its future today, having overcome the worst economic crisis in decades. That is why we advocate strengthening the European spirit of agreement and agreement, because Europe is the best response that can be offered when it comes to meeting the demands of peace, cooperation and solidarity on the continent. But we have much to do and, above all, to consolidate. The road is not without risks, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore, if the Spanish act wisely as they did in 2011, the future of growth and employment will be guaranteed. That is the social model that we are experiencing today, that of positive change, that of growth with social balance. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the one who always brings the People's Party to this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I usually do, I will try to respond to the various speeches that have taken place. I will see if I am able not to repeat the arguments because, as you all know, there are people who have used and referred to the same matters. I shall therefore try to respond to all the concerns expressed by your ladies and gentlemen. Mr Sánchez, in all cordiality, your speech has not had much to do with what the agenda says, and that the issues raised here are important for our country, for the Spanish citizens and also for the whole of the European Union. Others who have spoken have referred to the issues on the agenda; some with a particular approach, others with a one-way approach, others have said that they felt right or wrong about the decisions taken and the arguments used by the President of the Government. But, frankly, what you said this morning is both for a debate on Greece and for a debate on the CAP, on the IBI, on NATO or on the activities of the Higher Sports Council. [[Applauds]] After what has been discussed at the last European Council, the leader of the opposition and secretary-general of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party could be expected to have something to say about the Digital Agenda, about the European Semester - a key issue because it is the recommendations that are preceded by the Commission's diagnosis of what is happening to the European economy - or about security and defence policy, matters on which he has not said a single word. Little to say about immigration policy, except to take advantage - as you have done in your speech as a whole - of attacking my modest person. We have heard many personal disqualifications, some other insult, an incomprehensible overaction, but little more. I would have liked - and therefore I cannot reply to it - to have taken a stand on the various issues at the European Council; to have given us an opinion, for example, on the referendum in Greece; on the conditionality that has been raised with Greece; on whether it is good or bad that the VAT in Greece has three rates of 6%, 13% and 23%; and to have your opinion on the VAT that has been put on the tourism sector because it is a matter that also matters to Spain. We would have liked to know what you think about the pension reform that Greece has to do or about the tax pact that you and your party adopted when we reformed article 135 of the Constitution together. You felt bad, but now you say that you feel good about what has been imposed on Greece and that is article 135 of the Constitution. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I would have liked to know what you think of Greece having to incorporate the Banking Resolution Directive or what you think of the Investment Fund of EUR 50 billion and that half -25 billion - have to be devoted to bank recapitalisation and 12.5 billion to debt payment. I would have liked some position on these issues that were discussed at the European Council on which I have come to report, but I have not been successful, so it is very difficult for me to reply to you on the issues that were on the agenda of these Councils. In any case, don't worry about any of your ladies and gentlemen because as the rest of the speakers have referred to them, I too will be able to do so. [[Applauds]] The fact that I have just said this does not mean that I will not reply to any of Mr Sánchez's allegations. Believe me, I have had to make an important intellectual effort, yes, yes, important intellectual effort and not precisely because of the brilliance of Mr Sánchez's arguments, which have not existed. [[Rumors and Protests]] [[Several Members: Oh!-Rumors]] Imagination. Mr Sánchez has made a brief comment on what has happened in the Spanish economy over the years but has been confused. He has taken what has happened in the Spanish economy during the years 2008-2011 and has not realized that we are already in 2015. Have different things happened? Indeed. By 2011, 3,400,000 Spaniards had lost their jobs. The growth figures were the ones we all knew, negative, we had all the possible imbalances and we were faced with the threat of bankruptcy and rescue, but no longer. Now the imbalances have been corrected, now there is economic growth, now employment is being created, now no one talks about the rescue of Spain, no one talks about the bankruptcy of Spain. It's just that some things have changed. You talked about the G-20, because the G-20 I remember what happened to me in 2012 and what I experienced at the end of last year. In 2012, newly arrived in the Government, at the G-20 meeting in Los Cabos, Spain was no longer the European problem, it was the world problem, and in 2015 Spain was given a lecture in Brisbane, Australia, by the same members of the G-20 that you mentioned, whose title referred to how structural reforms can lead to economic recovery. That is what I can give you on the G-20 issue. [[Applauds]] I do not know how you see the Spanish economy, but if you try to believe that we have not yet emerged from the situation in which you left us, it can be placed in a position contrary to the world. Please see the May 2015 report by the European Commission and the European Bank. The report says the following about Spain: The economic recovery was further strengthened towards the end of 2014. The reforms introduced since 2012 have contributed to improved labour market prospects, greater expansion of financial conditions and greater confidence. As a result of a significant improvement in recent years, the current account balance remained positive in 2014 and the current account balance is expected to continue in 2015. The private sector continues to unravel in an orderly fashion and access to credit - it is important that you listen to this, as you have spoken about the financial sector - for households and for businesses, including SMEs, with prospects for positive growth, has improved significantly. An hour ago we just heard a report from the Banco de España that says that the price of SME credit less than EUR 1 million today has the lowest rate since 2003. Something has been done right, and if it hasn't, at least let us know that we're lucky, that it's not bad either. It's always better to have good luck than bad. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I continue with the report by the European Commission and the Central Bank, which continues to say: Tax quality and efficiency have been improved with tax reform. The insolvency framework has been strengthened and a personal insolvency framework has been developed that provides for a second opportunity for debtors. The real estate market shows signs of stabilization and with the deficit of 2014, reaching 5,8, that is, to the stated objective, fiscal consolidation is on the right path. As for the financial system - another of the matters to which you referred in your speech - I could say that you did not do anything and that was the situation that the Spanish financial system came to. We had to make some complicated decisions, but today the Commission and the Central Bank say that stability in the banking sector continues to be marked by improving the quality of assets, strengthening solvency and liquidity; that the sector is once again profitable and doubtful loans have decreased; that the restructuring of the banking sector, in particular of the banks that have received financing, is progressing well; that most of the banks in the process of restructuring are in a very advanced phase of their restructuring plans; that there has been positive progress in the sale of public equity from publicly funded entities. That is what the European Commission and the European Central Bank are saying; perhaps they are against you, I do not deny it, but it does not seem very reasonable to me to do this just to annoy you. I should recognize that the situation in the Spanish economy has improved and I could also say that much remains to be done. Yes, that's what I'm telling you, but it's certainly improved. If you do not recognize it, you are at serious risk of not taking it seriously, which is already beginning to happen on the part of some. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the International Monetary Fund says that Spain is the fastest growing country among the advanced countries; the OECD says that Spain is the country that will create the most employment in 2015 and 2016, as it says that exports will grow by 6.1 in 2016, that our exports account for 32% of GDP and that we are the second country among the major economies, ahead of France, the United Kingdom and Italy, only behind Germany. There are 150,000 exporting companies in our country. In recent years, sales in Latin America have increased by 60%. We are located in the eleventh place in the world as investors and in the second in Ibero-America. Please don't talk bad about Spain; if you want, talk bad about the government, but don't talk bad about the Spanish economy and the results that are taking place. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, a wealthy political leader should not confuse the outflow of capital with the outflow of deposits. From Spain have not come out 170 billion euros of deposits from March to November 2012 - you see the figures of the Bank of Spain, there is no such leak of deposits -. What happened was a capital outflow. Notice, regarding the sale mainly of Spanish debt or stock exchange: in 2010, 36 billion; in 2011, 68 billion - I did not govern then -; in 2012 - I governed -, 51 billion came out, but in 2013 30 billion entered - we also ruled - and in 2014, 50 billion euros, therefore, it is worth talking with property. I would like to remind you of some aspects concerning the euro, its exit and what you said in your speech. In 1996, we were going to enter the euro, but in the second division, in the second speed, but we made a great effort and entered. In 2011, when we arrived at the government, everyone was debating how long Spain was going to be in the euro, because we are in the euro and fortunately we have overcome a situation of enormous difficulty. I will not be silent about what has happened in the Eurogroup because I can explain it perfectly. The first thing I would like you to know about the House is that Spain has no representative at the European Central Bank because when I arrived at the Government I had already closed a compromise with the representative of Luxembourg. It is true that we do not have a Vice-President of the Commission, but neither do they have a Vice-President of the Commission, Germany, France or the United Kingdom. And why do Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Spain have no Vice-Presidents of the Commission? Because they don't have a wallet, and we prefer to have a police station with a wallet - that's two really, because the one in Energy had Germany and the one in Climate Change has Denmark -; I prefer to have a police station with content than a vice presidency without it. [[Applauds]] It is true that Spain has not won the Eurogroup vote, but I am happy to have given that battle. It is true that the Socialist Party did not give us the support; moreover, the head of the Socialist Party's economy said that he preferred a Social Democrat and that Mr De Guindos did not like him. That did not happen when, for example, very few days ago Mr Moratinos tried to preside over FAO with the support of the People's Party, he lost and the People's Party did not blame anyone who had not reached the presidency of FAO. [[Prolonged applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, life is sometimes lost and sometimes earned, that is the law of life. I would have liked Mr De Guindos to be the president of the Eurogroup, well, we will try again. - Then I'll tell Mr. Baldoví something about this matter. What happens, this always happens and you should review it, is that whenever someone from the People's Party comes forward, the Socialist Party by definition votes no. Because Juncker presented himself and Juncker voted for the whole European People's Party, the whole European Liberal Party and all European Socialists, except the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Hey, why do they do that? Well, I find no other explanation than because he's a member of the People's Party. Mr Arias Cañete is presented and voted for: the whole of the European People's Party, the whole of the European Liberal Party and all the European Socialists including the President of Parliament but you. Now, if candidates are elected, they protest. They did not like Juncker to be elected and did not like Arias; and if they did not get elected candidates, although they did not want candidates to be elected, as with Mr. De Guindos, they also protest, so that we present, do not present, win or lose, nothing seems good to them. [[Prolonged applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have made an important effort over the years. I do not want to bore you or overwhelm you with data, but I do not want any doubts in this House about some of the statements we have just heard. In the European Commission, in 2012, Spain had two Directors-General, now it has four. I have to say that the European Commission allocates to Spain a quota of 7.38 % - which affects us - for the presence of nationals in the EU institutions. We had two Directors General, now we have four of the thirty-eight existing, 10.5 % of the total. In the banking union we have the Director-General of the Single Supervisory Agency, which is a very important responsibility, and one of the five members of the Single Resolution Mechanism, to which I have just referred. There is another very important issue which is the cabinets of the members of the Commission. The nation that has the most members in these cabinets is the German case; it has four chiefs of cabinet and five deputies, and Spain today is the second ahead of the United Kingdom, Italy or France. We now have thirteen nationals in the cabinets of members of the Commission and we had nine before. There is also another very important issue, which is that we have two of the eight Directors-General of the Council, 25%. This is certainly a battle we have given, in which Spain has achieved a very important representation. The same is true of the European External Action Service: 11% of the management posts are held by Spanish nationals, behind Italy, which has thirteen and ahead of the United Kingdom, Germany and France. [[Rumors]] Spain is the second Member State with the highest number of heads of delegation - the largest - 10.8 of the total, only behind France. Then there are battles that are sometimes won, there are battles that are sometimes lost, but it is good for you to illustrate yourself about some of the important battles that we have fought in the European Union because they are important responsibilities. If you want, I'm already on substantive issues. In the common agricultural policy we fought a major battle and achieved support of €47 billion; we achieved support - which seemed impossible because there was less money - even higher than in the period 2007-2013. The same has happened with the multiannual financial framework, because when everyone predicted that we would become a net non-beneficiary, we became a net beneficiary. The same applies to interconnections with France, where we have made significant progress on youth employment issues and many others. Therefore, a fair trial should be conducted, because if it does not cease to be, on the positions that everyone has in the European Union. Mr Sánchez, there is one issue that is important for us all to be clear about. You said that it is not true what I have pointed out that we are now in a better position than in 2012 to deal with the problems that Greece can cause. Well, it's true, and you said you've raised the risk premium, but what do you say? If the 10-year bonus is now at 2.1% and the risk premium is far from 200, when at that time the 10-year bonus was above 7.5% and the risk premium was constantly exceeding 500 basis points and then 600. What do you say, Mr Sánchez, when there were autonomous communities in Spain that were being financed with 7.75 % annual patriotic bonds? Please, a little objectivity, balance and measure in making critical approaches. I understand that you have to look for tickles to the government, but I would appreciate it if you would make some slightly better arguments, if you are naturally capable. As for the money that has cost us the Greek crisis, it would be useful to review some of the debates that have taken place in this House over the last few years. When the first loan was granted to Greece with the favorable vote of the People's Party, the then responsible for the economy in Spain said: the conditions will allow the Spanish to pay nothing for that debt, which will be returned within the prescribed time limits at the rates that are expected and which are higher than the interest rates that Spain is paying for being in debt at that time. That was said here in 2010. I have to say that it has not been returned within the deadlines because nothing has been returned at the moment, and there are still a few years left for them to be returned. I assure you that to the types that were planned not because they have already gone down and, unless we start paying, you cannot go down any further. Nor is it true that they are higher than the interest rates that Spain is paying for being in debt at that time, because we have paid to get that money and to lend it to Greece much more than Greece is paying us at this time, which is nothing. That was affirmed here in this House and also affirmed by the then President of the Government, but it does not make the case that he comes in to quote you here today. I am not going to talk about the Greek political parties because I do not know what that means. I can tell you what Greece was like when in January 2015 - I take the opportunity to answer some honourable Members - I went to Greece, as on other occasions they will support people from their party. You've had people here supporting you and so have I. Moreover, the policies that were being implemented were much better than those that were being done at this time. Then Greece's growth forecast for this year was 2.9 % and for 2016 it was 3.7 %, and now the growth forecast, as I said earlier, is between less than 2 % and less than 4 %. At the time Greece was creating employment and, at the moment, Greece is destroying employment. At the time, Greece's debt was sustainable in January and is now unsustainable. At that time there was primary surplus and now there is no such surplus. The financial system was sufficiently sound and now it does not need EUR 25 billion. The corralite did not exist then and now it did and, of course, the confidence was much greater in the previous Government. These are objective data. I am not going to make judgments of value, the only thing I do say, and I have the right to express in this House as others express positions different from mine, is that there are different ways of making policies and there are some that get the country to start moving forward as happened in Portugal or Ireland and there are others that do not produce the same effects. That is exactly what is happening right now in our country. As for Mr Tsipras and Mr Montoro, quite frankly, you cannot say that Mr Tsipras and Mr Montoro think the same because you, as you have remembered here today, have given the votes in important municipalities, against the first political force, to Mr Tsipras' party in Spain. He has no moral authority to say that. [[Applauds]] Little more I have to tell you, Mr. Sanchez. I'm going to get on the agenda now. [[Laughter]] I rise on the agenda and respond to the intervention of Fr Pere Macias. Is Greece to be recognised? Yeah, yeah, and I'm worth the argument I just used right now. Last year, there was economic growth in Greece in 2014, which means that there was a people who understood what had to be done and that there was a government that was able to do it. As I pointed out, there was growth and good forecasts, job creation was beginning, banking was functioning reasonably and not now. It is therefore clear that the effort must be acknowledged to the Greek people. The problem is that from January of this year to today a lot of time has been wasted. It has now been resolved in 24 hours and one of the people who intervened this morning, Mr Esteban, asked why we had to wait until the last minute. No, we were in favour of solving it as quickly as possible. In fact, on 20 February they were given an extension until 30 June and we have been talking since 20 February, but, as you said very well in your speech and I am not going to make any value judgments, for these things to happen, it is necessary for two interested parties to arrive at an understanding. I am not going to enter into the value judgments that Don Pere Macias has made in his intervention, which does not mean that he does not give reason or give it to him, but it is true that arrogance and pride are not good advisors, not only in politics, but in every facet of life. He also spoke of the third ransom. The third rescue is necessary and I wish it was the last. We will all have to ensure that Greece can receive more than EUR 80 billion. As the document itself says - many of the speakers have also referred to this - it will probably be necessary to do some operation with the debt; in no case nominal withdrawals, but it will probably have to do some other operation, as has been done on other occasions, because we have history with Greece in this matter. The third rescue is absolutely essential if we want Greece to follow the European Union and the euro and, above all, if we want - which is the most important and the objective of this whole operation - to have economic growth and employment in Greece. Mr Pere Macias has referred to the European security and defence system and I agree that there is a lack of a model of its own. I agree, and therefore I will not tell you otherwise. We have made much progress in economic union, although much remains to be done, but we have made little progress in foreign and security and defence policy. It is one of the major political challenges that we will face over the next few years. I agree with what you have said about immigration. In the area of immigration, a decision has been taken which will be taken at the European Council on 20 July, which is quotas. However, reducing the issue of immigration to 40,000 people for political reasons - mainly Eritreans and Syrians who are currently in Greece and Italy - being distributed throughout the Union or bringing 20,000 more people from Syria - which is what has been agreed and which is very well - does not stop being a patch. Nor does it stop being a patch - one of the speakers who spoke here this morning also refers to this - the debate that we are going to have next on the operation in the Mediterranean. We need to have a global immigration policy based primarily on three legs. The first is to improve cooperation; and, in fact, Spain is doing so. The second is to make readmission agreements, because it is a very clear and understandable condition that anyone who comes illegally must return; it is a very clear and clear message to the mafias. The third is working together with countries where people come from and where they transit. A very effective operation was carried out here in the Canary Islands and Mrs Oramas referred to it in her speech. Moreover, it was done by the socialist government - I recognize it, because it is true and it was so - and then it continued. Thousands and thousands of people came to the Canary Islands each year in cayucos. Well, I was in Senegal the other day and I saw how cooperation with Senegal, Mauritania and other European Union countries ends up producing positive results. As far as immigration and security and foreign policy are concerned, much remains to be done, but, as you know, Europe is not something that has been built in half an hour and we still have more than half an hour left to close the model permanently. Mr Duran appreciates the agreement with Greece in his speech, and it is a common sense position. Here we can criticise that there has been agreement and we can criticise that there has been no agreement, and good arguments can be used to defend a position and good arguments to defend the opposite, but considering everything at stake, the fact that there has been an agreement is positive. Mr Duran, what I do not agree with is that this is not good for the euro and that it creates doubts. It creates scars, yes, but the euro wins, because the rules are respected, and respecting the rules is something very important in any facet of life, and in a matter like this, where unanimity is required and where we are faced with a problem of trust, it is more important. The European Union's and Greece's bet, because it has also pledged to remain in the euro, is a very positive fact. Now, there is something else, as you have said, which is also very important: economic growth. Greece must resume economic growth. If Greece does not have economic growth, it is doomed to be a country to which no one lends except the European Union until a moment comes when it ceases to lend. Therefore, either policies that generate growth and employment are made or this will be very complicated for the future. As far as immigration is concerned, I have already stated my position when I replied to Mr Macias. I don't agree with open doors, nor do I agree not to let anyone in. I agree that there are sensible, reasonable rules, and that there are rules, and that they are respected. He also spoke about growth and competitiveness, because it was one of the important issues of this Council. We are talking about whether countries are doing things right and achieving results. I will not remember, because I have already read some of the Commission's conclusions here. I join in the words you have spoken in relation to Mr Delors; I did so recently when we commemorate the 30th. the anniversary of Spain's accession to the European communities. I agree that there has been great news today, which is the agreement with Iran. The key, like so many times in life, is to achieve a fulfillment for those who have to do it. Mr Garzón, I do not agree with any of the statements you have made here, and I am absolutely convinced that it does not surprise you at all; I would be puzzled if you were surprised at that. I do not agree that this is the beginning of the end of the European Union; I do not agree in any way. When an institution complies with the rules, complies with the procedures, complies with the word given, that institution goes not towards its end, but towards its strengthening. I will tell you something else, and with that I also respond to some of the people who have intervened. I cannot share with you the expressions 'humiliation and punishment'. That's not true. What we decided at the last European Council is that we are going to start working to ensure that Greece has a programme of EUR 82 billion, which is in addition to the programme which already has Greece, the sum of bilaterals and the MED, of EUR 200 billion. In other words, the European Union already makes nearly EUR 300 billion available to the Greeks, which is far more than its gross domestic product. In addition, you have to take into account something else that is important, and that is that no one in the world lends it to you. If the European Union did not exist, Greece was doomed to leave the euro, to have a currency that, as has already been said here, could be worth 20% of what the euro is now worth, to financial problems of all kinds and to a general impoverishment of the population. The European Union cannot be attacked in such an indescribable manner. The Spanish people, if this programme is approved, will have to guarantee with a guarantee the loan that the MEDE, which will have to go to the markets, will make to Greece. So it's not fair. You may or may not agree with some of the conditions, but also take into account that, although countries are not subject to rescue - there are three at the moment - all have their obligations. In fact - we have not discussed this because the leader of the main opposition party did not want to talk about it - we have approved the Commission's recommendations to all countries in this European Semester. Spain does some and others do others, and all countries have to reduce debt and all countries have to reduce the deficit. It is true that the situation in Greece is much more complex, and that is why the demands are greater. With your permission, I will read you some statements made by a Social Democratic political leader and which, of course, I, who am not a Social Democrat, share: A country that owes a barbarity of money neither is sovereign nor has democracy worth it, because it does not own itself. That is very important - the best thing that could happen to Spain and any country is to owe nothing to anyone - just as it is very important for a normal person. Look, this social-democratic leader - who was then president of the government in Sweden - found himself in a public deficit of 11% and had to make very difficult decisions. Look what he said: That debt that we had humiliated us, and to suppress that debt that humiliated us and prevented us from being free had two ways: to do what was due and not to be re-elected - he said - or not to do what was due and surely not to be re-elected but also to harm my country. Well, he did, and he was re-elected. [[Applauds]] There are different policies, this is not a problem with a specific political party. In 2014 Greece was better; it was wrong, but as I pointed out before and even repeated on some other occasion that something was already beginning to be seen and the expected growth for this year - 2.9% - was not wrong. Look, now you're going to lose 5 or 6 points, those 2.9 that you don't win and the 3 or 4 that you're going to lose. I'll say something else about social conquests. Social conquests, who suppresses them or who reduces them, are the ones that make an economic policy that is not able to generate growth and employment. We all have the best intentions, but we need to see what policies are effective and what are not. The policy that needs to be done, which is right for Greece, Spain and any country in the European Union, is a lot of economic growth and a lot of employment, because that means more state revenue and better public services. That's why I'm saying I can't share some of the statements you've made. You have made a whole amendment to the European Union. I defend the European Union. I believe that the European Union is one of the most important political operations that have been carried out in a long time. It has its political origin - as you said - in the Economic Community of Coal and Steel, which was not an economic operation, although it may seem otherwise, because what was below was a political substrate. It is true that it was then fundamentally advanced in economic matters, I have now told Mr Macias, and that much remains to be done in political matters. The European Union, since it exists as such, has managed to put an end to something that seems impossible to have existed, but that existed - the world wars to which you referred - and exists in other places that are not so far from the European Union. Something positive has been achieved. The European Union is the area of the world where there is more economic progress and more welfare. I always set the same example, even it seems to me that I did it in this House. When the Ebola epidemic took place, while a person here entered a hospital without paying - which is one of the great achievements of the welfare state -, in other large countries he entered with a heel of $500,000. Of course, the European Union is the world's area with the highest level of freedom and individual rights. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I cannot share - I am sorry - that amendment as a whole. In relation to my presence in Greece, I am proud to have gone. I went to defend what I believed in. I do not know if you have, but Mr Lara has been in Greece defending positions other than mine and I do not blame him, unless there is some other kind of reason. Mrs Díez, the Greek issue is obviously a European one. I used the Greek subject expression in a colloquial tone. I'll try to be more precise in the future. I absolutely agree with what you said: The referendum is nonsense, it is clearly nonsense. It is very easy to say that with the referendum the people are consulted, but, ladies and gentlemen, I say one thing: when you are in the government and have the biggest problem your country has had in a long time - as has happened now in Greece - you have to have the courage, determination and courage to make the decisions you have to make, win the vote in Parliament and then explain it to the people. That is why it was foolish and because a referendum was also decided in full negotiation and without notifying anyone, the rest of the countries of the European Union or the representatives of the various institutions. It is inexplicable and I agree with you that it worsened, and much, your negotiating position, because it liquidated the rules, liquidated the procedures and generated a huge mistrust. I know that there are many people who do not share this statement, but I, of course, absolutely agree. All of us who make the decision - you say - did it for national reasons, not for supranational or European reasons. Man, I have to say that, in fact, national reasons weigh me down. If someone tells me that there are 80 billion euros to endorse, it is not the same - with forgiveness - as if you invite me to have coffee. Of course, I have to take that into account, as I have to take into account other things, as everyone else does, but you have the complete and absolute assurance that if we came to the agreement that was reached it was to preserve the euro, which is a substantial part of the political project called Europe. You say - other speakers have also said - that another ransom solves nothing. I have to see things from another point of view, because I was there when the decision was taken and I supported it. We have some examples of European countries that have overcome difficult situations. Ireland was in the situation that you all know and the same has happened to Portugal. They had to make complicated decisions, but now, with legitimate pride, Portugal can say: I am going to grow this year 1.6; and it has had many difficulties and problems with its Constitutional Court. In Ireland things have also changed and Greece had a better path than it has right now. Undoubtedly, if things are done with wisdom and seriousness and you are willing to drag some unpopularity - which you have to do when you engage in this noble activity - you can get results. This also serves to respond to the expression 'Greek agony'. Greece can leave if it does things right and, moreover, if it does them right it will have - it has already been proved - the European Union. As far as the Solidarity Fund with Greece is concerned, I understand that it was primarily concerned with humanitarian matters. This was one of the debates that took place there, because some of them claimed that the fund that was set up, worth EUR 50 billion, was not based in Greece but in another country, and to some of those we were there it did not seem to us to be a most reasonable solution. Mr Esteban began by saying: We have saved the situation; it does not come out of the euro; the markets are quiet; better an agreement than nothing. Well, that's what there is; that's exactly what it is. This is what has been going on for many years and what I am absolutely convinced - although it is true that governance needs to be improved - that will be over the next few years. He says to me: You did not understand the movements of each other. Man, not one's; I've understood the other's. The strategy followed by those responsible for the Greek Government did not lead anywhere. It didn't make any sense. A referendum had been held in which exactly what was being voted on was not known. An agreement was apparently put to the vote which was not such, because it had not been approved by the Eurogroup with the institutions, but as the referendum took place after the programme ceased to be in force, it automatically ceased to make any sense. Then nothing was put to the vote. What was ultimately put to the vote was a political concept and there was one person who said: Careful, here you can get out of the euro; and another who said: This is going to strengthen me. And the winner didn't achieve his goal, as you all know. What's this all about? I could do a psychological analysis here, although it doesn't make any sense. If I had to bet on something, I would say that it was mainly due to the lack of knowledge of how the European institutions work. Look, I think that's the most important reason. There are others who can talk about sectarianism, about poor political management, but I think the reason is basically that. Anyway, it's the same, because that's an analysis. The important thing now is to focus the future and do it in the most reasonable way. They tell me about my position towards some of these things, they tell me: this is usual, you don't paint anything, you what you do, what you go for. I know you didn't say that, but I take the opportunity to answer without referring to anyone in particular. Spain's position was always the same. We are in favour of Greece remaining in the euro, we are willing to be supportive, but we must have a demanding position. In the end, there are those who are tougher, those who are less hard, those who are not, and these things are resolved unanimously. They have to be worked on a lot, everyone ends up giving in a little bit or putting something that seems important to your country or to the European Union, but in the end all these things are decided unanimously and, frankly, I believe that the agreement, as the situation was, was very reasonable. If the programme is approved - we are talking about 82 billion -, Spain undertakes to endorse approximately 10 billion euros, but, as it is the MEDE loan, we will probably have to pay the main one in thirty years - because the credits are being paid in thirty years - or we will see when. In any case, well employed is this if we are able to do things reasonably. You asked me if things are finally resolved. This in life, not only in politics, is certainly complex. They are definitely not resolved, but they are in the pipeline, and I repeat again what has happened to Ireland and Portugal, which are still in a difficult situation, but they are already emerging from these difficulties. With regard to debt relief and debt restructuring, you referred to the report of the International Monetary Fund. What is said in the conclusions is nominal removal no, but it opens the door to something that has already been done in previous years: the lengthening of deadlines and the lowering of the interest rate, which can no longer be lowered. That door is left open, but after the first review of the programme's implementation, there has to be thorough follow-up on how things are going to be done to prevent what has happened now from happening again. Greece is in a bad economic situation, indeed - you have said - it is worse now than in January, but the key is that this agreement serves to improve it. It has also referred to the EUR 50 billion fund and the privatisations to be made. It is not easy, but I think I remember that it will be a period - I don't have it in my head - between three and five years. And if you don't want to, I don't bring the program here. Whatever you say. I wonder why I bring the programme to Parliament now. I have no greater interest. This is an important contribution, even in the form of endorsements, that the Spanish State has to make, and it seemed reasonable to me that, even if the law does not require or make any regulations, we would do so. He talked about the times and the negotiations. And as far as immigration is concerned, you have raised something that is true. There are places where there is no dialogue, it is true, but I tell you one thing: This is either spoken with the countries of origin and transit or has no solution, as you know, unless the level of well-being and wealth in those countries increases. No doubt there are problems in Syria and Libya there is a very modest advance. At the moment the problem is in Libya: 170,000 people came to Italy last year and many others died in the attempt, of which only 200 were Libyans. There are countries of many nationalities, from which more, indeed, from Eritrea and Syria, but it is certainly a complex issue. Mr Larreina, I cannot share that assertion that Europe is insolidary inwards and outwards and the social Europe and the Europe of the citizens. Honestly, no. It cannot be said to the European Union, as I have pointed out before, that it is inconvenient when it is going to contribute EUR 82 billion, which is in addition to those 200,000 to which I have already referred many times throughout today. In addition, the European Union's policies of economic growth and employment are the most supportive. So, that of the citizens' Europe, of the markets... The decisions that are made in political life are to try to help citizens. Of that €82 billion, some party has to pay creditors, yes, but if it is not paid by creditors, it does break down and that is the worst thing that can happen to all the citizens of a country. I cannot accept that, therefore, and I shall refer again to what has happened in Ireland and Portugal. You say some things - with which I can agree - that the International Monetary Fund has pointed out on debt, but, as I have just said to Mr Esteban, that has led us to leave open the possibility of restructuring the deadlines and the rates of debt. I note something that I found interesting in relation to the Digital Agenda. Without a doubt, it seemed new to me. Mr Tardà has intervened in the line of others who have spoken from ideological positions similar to his. Frankly, I do not believe that people are threatened or humiliated or that this is against the dignity of any Government. I don't think the referendum was a good idea either. I don't think so. I've explained the reasons before. It seems to me to be no less than a reason that the rulers have to assume their own responsibilities. And if you then make a referendum and a result comes out, you should respect it. But in that I must not enter as the president of the government of a euro area country. I insist, I cannot share those claims. Mrs Fernández says that we are insolidarians in immigration matters. No, we are not insolidarians with Italy or Greece. I was the first to support Mr Renzi's request - when the events in Lampedusa occurred - to hold a debate on this matter. The debate was held and Mr Renzi thanked me for the support I gave him. Therefore, we are not insolidary, among other things, as you have said, because we have experienced that and because there is nothing to point out that similar situations cannot occur in the coming times. No one wants to defeat Mr. Tsipras either. This is a policy problem in the European Union, but the decisions taken in the European Union are far less ideological than some believe. The conditions that are placed on Greece do not like you, but then what do we do. We can tell them: Do whatever they want, but don't count on us or at least don't ask for money. In life, except for donations or sponsorship approaches - which are not common among States - these things are so. If you ask for credit in a bank, will some conditions put you, or will you just give it to them? He's gonna get there and they're just gonna give him the credit? Some conditions must be put in place so that the debt can be repaid. It's just that if no one lends you and you don't realize it. How can Greece live without the help of the European Union? It cannot be said that there is no solidarity from the European Union. That's not true, and you should take a look at these matters. He's taken some social security contribution data from me, but he forgets a few things. It forgets that we have established a flat rate of EUR 50 - that in many cases means less collection - and that a few months ago we have decided that the first EUR 500 under certain conditions - indefinite contracting - will not pay. For these reasons the accounts are logically resented, yes, but that and another different economic policy have led to the creation of jobs in Spain now, which was not the case before. It is already known that this should not be a measure forever, but in politics and above all in economics there are decisions that need to be considered whether it is good to take them or not, because at one point it can be, and at another it can have a different interest. Mrs Oramas has told me about immigration, Greece and Italy, and I think I have already answered this question. It also reminded me of what happened in 2010. He told me about the International Monetary Fund, about debt restructuring... Frankly, I can assure you that on the electoral issues in Spain it is the last thing I have thought about, especially on issues of debt restructuring, because, as I pointed out earlier, the agreement was that we were going to see it after the first revision. That issue was not even discussed, because the only thing that became clear at the beginning was, first, that there were no nominal withdrawals in any way and, second, that if on previous occasions the debt was restructured, now, if things go well, it can also be restructured. But we can't say we're going to restructure the debt for nothing. That can't be. In life and not only in politics but of course among governments everyone has their rights, of course, but it is impossible to build anything in any country in the world if people besides rights have no duties and obligations. [[Applauds]] Otherwise, I'm incapable of understanding it. Mr Baldoví has to be congratulated on the results, and I admit that giving up is always good. But the same way I tell you this, I'm putting you in Sweden for the next call for municipal elections. You're posted. [[Applauds]] Positions on what has happened in the Valencian Community? We are going to appeal to the Court of Luxembourg. We have resorted in its day to the initiation of the sanctioning procedure and the resolution of that appeal is pending. We have done so because a regulation has been applied retroactively, and that, as you know, when it goes to the detriment of the person suffering from it, cannot be done. The penalty is the lowest that can be imposed, it is the minimum penalty. In terms of transparency of public accounts, there has been some progress in our country, and who discovered the error, or whatever, that occurred in 2011, was a Government presided over by me a year later, in 2012. The rest of the speech is in line with what some of your ideological colleagues say; therefore, I will not repeat it. I defend a position of Europe as an advanced democratic area, which is, with the guarantee of fundamental freedoms and rights for citizens, as I have pointed out before. I advocate a competitive economy, among other things, because it is very difficult to compete with those who do not have a welfare state and whose pension budgets are zero euros, when they account for almost 40% of the government's budgets, and a similar amount is included in public health. Therefore, in order to maintain that, which is undoubtedly one of the great achievements of Europe, we have to make reforms, be more competitive than them and be better. Mr. Sostres, you have dedicated some truly remarkable qualifications to me. I don't know if there's any reason to justify them. If there is, I'm totally unaware of it, and if it's okay with you, you'll tell me one day. He does not agree with anything we have done in the case of Greece. He talks about perpetual negotiation. Negotiating is never bad. Some say that negotiations should not last very long, but if one has a deadline, sometimes it is not bad to exhaust it, because if the deadline ends on 31 and day 2 we make the decision, it may well have occurred that between 2 and 31 we might have had other things that would have made that decision much better. Therefore, I am not so clear that running out of time to the end is necessarily negative. It may or may not be. He spoke about social benefits and government decisions. After having lost, in 2008 and 2009, 90 billion euros of collection and after being then three years in a recession, in Spain we can be reasonably satisfied to continue to maintain the great pillars of the welfare state. I understand that you may have a different opinion, although I recognize - and therefore you have not - that it is difficult to argue it. Mr Salvador, solidarity-responsibility is indeed the only way to approach such a complex and difficult issue as this one we are facing. I share what you have said about security and defence issues. We have talked little about this today. Sometimes we don't realize, but this is one of the big problems we have, especially Western societies, and not so much. We have seen what happened in Tunisia very recently, with the damage of all kinds that it does, or what happened in France and other countries. It is good that we all work together in this matter. Collaboration has increased among all, but there is still a great deal to be done, as I have already pointed out. I thank you and will transfer to the State Security Forces and Corps the words you have dedicated to them. I am also grateful that you acknowledge that today there is a more positive view of the Spanish economy than there might have been a while ago. I also agree - I have pointed out earlier - with regard to rights and duties. Societies are not built just by giving rights; also from time to time we all have duties. Finally, I would like to thank the spokesman for the People's Party, Rafael Hernando, for his intervention. It has devoted part of it to analysing the position, performance and behaviour of the Greek Government throughout all these negotiations. I will be more institutional, with the permission of the People's Parliamentary Group. What is important is that this has generated a loss of confidence that is not going to be easy to recover and trust is one of those intangibles that should not be lost. Governments - I agree with you - must assume their responsibility. If every time someone has a difficulty they decide to make a referendum, they run the serious risk of being asked: And why have we put you there? I agree with the reference you made to the tax pact, because the tax pact that was adopted in this House and which was a reform of Article 135 of the Constitution, as I said at the beginning, is one of the decisions that the Greek Parliament has to make today for us all to continue working on the negotiations on the future programme. This fiscal pact has been signed by all euro area countries, including the vast majority of non-euro area countries. I would remind you that, except for the United Kingdom, because of its special situation in all matters relating to the European Union, and the Czech Republic, all the others have done so, and it seems logical that Greece should do so too, especially in the situation in which we are in. I am convinced that Greece can move forward, but I am convinced that it needs serious, rigorous policy making and that it is willing to accept that there are decisions that undoubtedly make a much more unpopular one than when it comes to government. Whenever one reaches the Government one is something popular, because if it would not be very difficult; then certainly the problems and difficulties begin. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are starting the turn of reply and, as I always do in this debate, I remember that here I will be stricter in the times than I was at first. I give the floor to Mr Sánchez, for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rajoy, about your intellectual superiority, you like Mr. Cañete: If a man demonstrates intellectual superiority over a woman, they call him a sexist. [[Protests.-Applause.]] This is what you have, ladies and gentlemen, the children of good blood, who are all cut by the same pattern. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u36	Quiet. Take care of the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u37	In any case, ladies and gentlemen, high reflection by the President of the Government on the defeat in the presidency of the Eurogroup: Sometimes it is won, sometimes it is lost, but we will continue to try. [[Laughter]] Mr Rajoy, regarding vulnerability, I will tell you that the Spanish economy today is more vulnerable as a result of its inaction and its lack of purpose in economic policy. Today the Banco de España has published the external debt data, which has increased again: 1.8 billion euros, 55 billion euros in the short term that we have to face, Mr Rajoy. So that's what I blamed him for. You should have been one of the main actors in the resolution of the Greek crisis and should not have used it in a partisan and non-patriotic way, as you have done. [[Rumors]] He should have had a more constructive attitude and not only in this House, talking to all the leaders of all the parliamentary groups, but also in the European Union, as has been done by the Hollande leader or Renzi leader, and not bending to the orthodoxy of the Schäuble Finance Minister. With regard to some of the figures you have given, I will tell you that the capital flight was 20% of the gross domestic product and the deposit flight was 17% of the gross domestic product, so you explain, Mr Rajoy, why this deposit flight occurred. By the way, just one point, since 2011 the credit drop in our country has been 30 billion euros, that is, the largest in the history of our democracy. Mr Rajoy, with regard to the vote, it would have been good if he had not only brought the vote for the rescue programme to Greece, but a few years ago, in 2012, he had put to the vote in the Congress of Deputies - as, for example, the German Parliament - the financial rescue in Spain. You didn't do it. Both economies, Mr Rajoy, have been rescued. And the Spanish economy was rescued precisely by the poor management that you did in the financial sector, and in particular in Bankia. [[Protests]] Yes, in Bankia. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you more, Mr. Rajoy, who did that to whom you proposed...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u38	I'm sorry, Mr. Sanchez. Please, I beg the same silence as there has been so far. [[Applause.- Several Members: Yes]] Go on, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u39	Whoever did that, Mr Rajoy, was the one you proposed as the president of the Eurogroup. How were they going to vote for the candidate who produced and provoked the bailout to the financial sector in our country, which was Mr. De Guindos? [[Protests.-Applause.]] I know it hurts, but it's the truth. I will tell you more, Mr Rajoy, - who does not console himself because he does not want to - we have the same institutional presence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, as a country like Cyprus, but do not worry because we have many Spanish heads of cabinet. [[Laughter]] That's what you've come to tell us. It has had an international policy that has led us to have an institutional presence in European economic institutions that is zero. Neither the European Central Bank, nor the Vice-President of the European Commission, nor the Presidency of the Eurogroup, and now it seems that in 2018 - with another government, not with you - we will have a return to the presence in the European Central Bank. Mr Rajoy, regarding the rescue, Mr Tsipras will lie about the virtues of the rescue programme to Greece as you lied to the Spaniards about the virtues of the rescue programme to the Spanish financial sector. That's all I want to say. It is true that you have branded some of the agreements that my party has reached as anti-democratic. Mr Rajoy, you have gone from absolute majority to absolute loneliness. [[Rumors]] You have ruled against everyone, against the educational community, against young people by raising university fees, against women by revising the Law on Voluntary Discontinuation of Pregnancy, against workers with their labour reform, against citizens with their law of harassment, against ecologists, against municipalities, against autonomous communities by currently perpetrating a cut in public deficit targets that will call into question the sustainability of the welfare state. You, Mr. Rajoy, have earned absolute loneliness by pulse, by pulse. [[Applauds]] And it's the advance of his electoral defeat next November. Ladies and gentlemen, two thoughts. You and your Government are insolidarians with regard to asylum and migration policies. Asylum, Mr Rajoy, is a right, it is a legal duty, it is a moral responsibility and your Government is blocking in the European Council the agreement to relocate the more than 40,000 refugees coming from Libya and Syria. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, do not use the unemployed or resort to the supposed effect called and unlock the agreement at the European Council because all European leaders are asked to do so. I end with an appeal. Yesterday, there was a cataract of statements and leaks by the Government of Spain regarding the reading you were doing about the defeat in Mr De Guindos' election as president of the Eurogroup. One of them was that there are more and more socialist governments in Europe and that, as a result, Mr De Guindos lost the vote for the election of president of the Eurogroup. Mr Rajoy, from November there will be another and it will be in Madrid, it will be in La Moncloa. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mr Macias has the floor in the first place for the Convergence and Union Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. I will speak very briefly from the seat simply to refer to some aspects of the European Council of 25 and 26 June, the conclusions on employment, growth and competitiveness. There has been talk of the importance of growth and our group would like to focus in a very special way on the need for investment for growth. It is therefore essential for us - and we must be very demanding, Mr Rajoy - that the Juncker Plan fulfil its objectives and be an effective and real plan for growth and occupation, collect public-private collaboration and meet the expectations generated. And for us - you have talked about this with regard to the Digital Agenda - Europe also needs to take concrete measures and provide resources to move from good and shared intentions to facts. As far as measures and resources are concerned especially for companies, this is a fundamental issue for growth for us, and therefore, as one of the Commission's conclusions, we have wanted to use this shift to underline the importance of the investment of the Juncker Plan and the actual implementation of the Digital Agenda since Convergence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr. Duran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. I will also intervene from the seat. I do not know, Mr President, whether you have had to put imagination or not in the answer to Mr Sánchez, but you have put it in the answer to my speech. You've put words in my mouth that I haven't said. You say that in my speech I considered exactly that the agreement for the euro was not good and that it added and justified: because the rules are respected. I did not at any time say, Mr President - I am sorry that you did not explain me well or that you did not listen well - that the agreement was not good for the euro; indeed, I said that it was not simply good but strengthened it and that I agreed with those voices that defended the fact that the euro came out strengthened from all this. I have added - which is different - that the debate has not been innocuous and that the political debate that has taken place on this matter does weaken the political project of the euro. Or has there been no close and powerful voices during this debate, in any case, that have accepted the possibility of Greece leaving the euro area? Therefore, it is to deny the evidence, Mr President, not to acknowledge that, despite reiterating that yes, compliance with the rules of the game is to strengthen the euro, there have been statements throughout the debate that undoubtedly create scars that weaken it as a project. That's what I said, not another thing, Mr. President. Also, and in line with what Mr Macias mentioned, in my speech I spoke about the Juncker Plan and I told him to inform the House, which he has not done, about how he is or how they evaluate the projects that are being presented. And I told him, and I repeat, that in any case in these projects we must pursue an added value which, on the other hand, is the only way to be able to involve private investment, which is the fundamental objective of the Juncker Plan. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Duran. Mr Garzón has the floor for the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, you rely too much, too much, on the predictions of international bodies. Just remember that in the end economists have to respond to the truth and the facts, and the truth is that the International Monetary Fund has been grossly failing for six years in terms of predictions about Greece; six years, from 2009 to 2014 - we don't have data from 2015 - have failed absolutely in every year, years in which it has ruled a party different from Syriza and Alexis Tsipras. Therefore, prevention in the face of these circumstances, without appreciating that even when economic growth occurs, it depends on the beneficiary to have a correct approach to reality. Mr Rajoy, you have spoken in this reply to the debts, to which we have always referred - we have brought to this Congress a number of proposals for a European debt restructuring plan - and you have specifically said that debts must be paid. As the slogan is fine, but if we take a look at history we realize that it is not necessarily so and that, moreover, when the debts are impossible to pay the reasonable is to enter into a restructuring of the debt in order to be able to pay the debt itself. It may seem paradoxical, but it's no stranger to our economy. In fact, it is not alien even to the religion you publicly profess, Catholicism, because, as you also know, Mr Rajoy, debt comes from a word of the Aramaic meaning sin, and in the Jubilee year all debts were also forgiven to allow society to move forward. Not in vain in Catholicism itself is said to forgive our sins, forgive our debts, is equivalent. Why? Because history reflects many occasions when debt has to be forgiven. But the most important thing in political terms is to understand whose debt is, who is the political subject that generates the debt. In the Spanish case, when we have a debt generated, for the financial rescue it turns out that it has no political meaning, but it does much from the ideological point of view that most citizens pay it. This is not a technical criterion, it is an ideological criterion that has decided to prioritize a certain type of expenditure against another type of expenditure of a social nature. That is the dilemma, Mr Rajoy, whether it be economic or moral, the real circumstance is that this debt cannot be paid. It cannot be paid because stimulus programmes are shining because of their absence and the only thing there are austerity policies that they do is contract the economy and prevent, make it impossible for debt to be repaid within the agreed deadlines. We therefore share that debt is also a way of subjecting a country, a dependency, to slavery; in fact, you should take note of that because your Government has fired public debt in an unusual way, it is within truly historical limits. What happens is that this debt has a very clear political origin, rescue the financial system or rescue a social minority, rescue highways, military spending... Does anyone think that the citizens of Greece benefited from the enormous expenditure on missiles, tanks, German companies? Does anyone think that the financial rescue and debt generated in Greece or Spain has anything to do with the welfare conditions of citizens in Spain? Of course not. That is why the only way is to restructure the debt to lighten a ballast; I am not saying that it is the panacea, it is a ballast that needs to lighten in order to get the economy out of the crisis. And that means complementing stimulus policies, but it turns out that in the European Union debt is being used as a lever to justify cuts. I have given him the book of Keynes before but it seems from the practice that his Government and the leaders of the European Union are more than Milton Friedman, who said that the state had to be sold in pieces. In fact, when we see the proposals to generate a privatization fund to start selling public assets, even the islands themselves, one realizes that the state is being sold in pieces. But there is also a huge blindness, the blindness of believing that in that way it comes out of the crisis. In this way, those who have been speculating and suddenly need public aid will emerge from the crisis, that market economy that has a parentheses, as the leader of the Spanish employer and now a prisoner said, who was actually expressing a way of thinking about the economy: the economy of the amiguetes. To some extent, we are faced with a similar circumstance. I would like to conclude by saying that without a stimulus plan, without debt restructuring and without an entirely different orientation from the European Union, the economy and, above all, the Greek people will not be able to get out of the crisis. It is paradoxical - I said earlier - that it was in Greece where all this is happening: the beginning of the end of the European Union. In the sixth century B.C.E., Solon, a Greek leader, for the first time banned slavery for debt default. In fact, what European leaders have done this weekend has been to restore some kind of slavery to debt default; what they are doing is precisely to bring humiliation to the Greek people, which - as I said in our speech - is just the construction of a highway so that the far right will have arguments in front of the handful of bureaucrats who do not understand the daily reality of the people. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, let's get back to it. I would like to stress a little bit about the time I have in the matter to which I have devoted most of my speech. You answered me exclusively on the question of the referendum and we agreed on the diagnosis, but I would like to return to the substantive question, on the important question. My group cares about Greece because we care about Europe, and vice versa, and that is why I want to go back to that issue. Mr Rajoy, the rescue of 2010 was a failure, it was not a chollo, as Mr Rodríguez Zapatero said at the time when he defended himself in this rostrum, neither for Greece nor for Europe nor for Spain and proved to be. It was true that it was necessary, that Greece needed help, that it could not leave itself of the serious financial and institutional crisis in which it was plunged, but it is also true that the austerity imposed by that plan was not the only way out; I will say more, it was not only not the only way out, but it is shown that it was not the right way out. It did not have any effect, the effect was negative, the debt did not stabilize and continued to grow after 2010, despite the fact that the Greek Government at the time was able - I think it is worth remembering - to reduce the deficit by 15.3% of the gross domestic product in which it was at that time to 3.5% in 2014, a historical record, except in situations of war. In spite of that the plan did not work and the debt did not decrease because the 2010 programme, as already advanced - I remember that we had this debate - has plunged Greece into a deep recession. Although that was so, as I said before - I want to insist -, that plan that failed in 2010 is repeated with the same logic of adjustment imposed in the second plan of the year 2012. In this new agreement we are talking about, the diagnosis is repeated, the prescription is repeated and I am afraid, Mr Rajoy, that the consequences will be repeated. You said in your speech right now in the reply that if we do it right it will go well, but doing what the two previous plans said went wrong and not only went wrong because of the action of the Greek government - I just gave you the quote of the deficit reduction in 2010 - but it went wrong because the recipe for austerity and point is a failed recipe. What can't work just doesn't work. We are therefore concerned that the recipe and the consequences will be repeated. That is why, Mr Rajoy, I would like to insist on a proposal I made in my first speech. I ask you to defend in the European Union, to defend before our European partners a European solidarity fund with Greece, which is not a humanitarian fund, because the humanitarian fund acts to get people out of a situation of extreme poverty. We are proposing a social plan, a social prevention fund precisely to prevent Europe from having to design a humanitarian plan in two years' time, to prevent that situation from happening and in two years' time Europe from having to design a humanitarian aid plan for Greece. It advocates a European solidarity fund with Greece managed by the Commission and aimed at directly granting social assistance which limits the impoverishment and exclusion of Greek citizens. Let us do that at least, Mr Rajoy, because, otherwise, by imposing new and harsh conditions on the new liquidity granted to Greece, it is very difficult, if it is not impossible, for Greece to grow again. Greece at the moment, I said it before and I want to repeat it, remains in the euro, but the greatest austerity condemns its citizens over long years of adjustments and the dismantling of what remains of the welfare state. What cannot be allowed, cannot be allowed by the Europeans, is for Greek citizens to be left out of the idea of a Europe of progress and well-being. It is not a question, Mr Rajoy, of preserving the euro, you said in your previous speech, but of preserving the European social model, it is a question of preserving what Europe is. The euro is an instrument, but it is an instrument for that social Europe, that Europe we want and that we want to make it more and more social and today, Mr Rajoy, I fear that the agreement reached will leave Greece at the moment within the euro and the Greek citizens outside Europe. That is why I ask you to defend in Europe this social action plan managed directly by the Commission to rescue - let me say this colloquially - the Greek citizens, which is the only way we can rescue all of us, because I do not understand a Europe without Greece or a Greece without Europe. That will be our task. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Mr President of the Government, if you wish to reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u49	I thank you very much for giving me the floor. Actually, Mr. Sanchez, I'm not going to say much to you because I'm not going to take into account what you said. I think you've had a bad day today, but that doesn't have anything special, because it's human. Therefore, I will not remind you that the deposits in Spain in 2012, according to data from the Banco de España, were 2,293 billion and in December were 2,298 billion. Nor am I going to explain to you, because I think it does not make the case, the importance of a chief of staff of a Commissioner in Europe. Have complete and absolute assurance that you have it, but it does not make the case to remind you. I will certainly not be happy to remind you of the statements you have made about the agreements with Podemos, which all members of this House know perfectly well. Nor will I remind you, speaking of economy, that the accounts were broken, that the financial system was broken, that the electricity sector was broken, as well as AENA and Paradores, and that we had to apply ourselves to solve some small problems that you kindly left us. [[Laughter]] All I want to remind you and recommend is that you acknowledge that the Spanish economy is improving, because that's good for everyone, it's good for you too, and if you don't, as I told you before, you can stay absolutely alone in the world. [[Applauds]] Mr Duran used the word'scars' and said that the agreement was not good for the euro. It probably wasn't good for the euro, but in the end it was good because the euro continues to exist with all the countries that first formed this currency - they weren't all at once, as everyone here knows perfectly -. I have also been told about investments and the Juncker Plan. It is important to note that one of the points in the conclusions that reflect the feeling of the discussions that took place there is the possibility that up to €35 billion of structural funds can be used and also of the Juncker Plan to promote this investment policy, which clearly can also help Greece to overcome the difficult situation it is currently in. Mrs Díez referred to Greece and the reduction of the public deficit. It was a very important advance and was also made in a situation of recession. There was a very significant loss of GDP, but there was progress. The most important proof of progress - and not less - is that in 2014, last year, Greece had economic growth; I don't remember how much it was, but it had economic growth. As I have pointed out on several occasions during this morning's debate, the growth forecast for this year was 2.9 %, which was not bad. It is true that after all the years of negative growth much more would be needed, but it seemed that a new path was beginning. And it was, of course, much easier for the institutions to negotiate with the people who at the time had the majority in Parliament who were then. That is why if we change the way we deal with relations with the European Union and if people realize how things need to be done and that credibility and trust need to be gained, the European Union is flexible. It has been with all countries. In fact, very recently he gave France two more years to reach the level of public deficit that that country had committed. And he did it with us. When we reached the government the deficit target for 2012 was 4.4% and it was impossible to decrease by 9.1% that left us to 4.4% in one year and being in recession. If things arise well, if trust is generated, if one manifests the will to fulfill and the decisions to be made are made, it is so, Mr Esteban, in the end things can turn out well. With regard to this European solidarity fund, I will tell you that Greece is going to have a contribution of EUR 82 billion, and that the Commission has a fund to invest in Greece in its free will is not something that gives me great enthusiasm, for one reason: I believe that it is the Greek Government that has to take decisions on this matter and say whether it is going to increase its resources in pensions or other things. There are 82 billion, reforms to be made, they are committed, but if the Commission starts making decisions and says how money is spent there, we do not make a good operation. Finally, Mr Garzón, the forecasts in economics are true that they are opinionable, they are like those of the meteorological service. But things in life are improving, and at least my Government, when it makes economic forecasts, it is usually right, and other institutions are also doing so. And that Greece was going to grow this year no one questioned it and that now it is going to have a negative stage of economic growth nor does anyone question it. I am not going to go into a debate - it doesn't make sense at this time - on debt, debt restructuring, deadlines, interest rates or even forgiveness, but what I did know today is that you don't have the authority to ask for debt relief after the statement you made about yourself. In any case, you can talk to me, that maybe I can solve the problem. Yes, about the Catholic religion. You can talk to me, that maybe we'll come to some sort of understanding. In any case, as we all know, the restructuring of the debt is planned, with the exception of nominal write-offs, which already took place, because private creditors received a 50% write-off of the Greek debt. That's what ends up causing trouble. Would you invest your money now in Greek bonds? This is the question that needs to be asked to many people who say what they say. You may find yourself in a situation like that. That is why it now has only public creditors, and it is beginning to have no even public creditors, those of the European Union, which is what Greece has left and is the greatness of the solidarity that the process of the European Union means. He talked about the public debt in our country. One day I can explain it to you. The problem is that in our country we had a deficit. The first year was already €90 billion, which was the deficit that there was, but then came the Supplier Payment Fund. Of course, it was not public debt, it was simply debt that did not pay most of the institutions in our country. The best thing, in our opinion, was to say: We are going to give veracity to the accounts and from 2016 onwards, when the first strong deficit reduction occurs, below 3%, the public debt will begin to decrease. That is the plan that we have made and that has its end, for the time being, in 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u51	The Government's agreement that, in accordance with Article 15 of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability, the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and each of their subsectors for the period 2016-2018 and the non-financial expenditure ceiling of the State budget for 2016 are set. To present this agreement, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is bringing to Congress today the agreement of the Council of Ministers setting the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and for each of its subsectors for the period 2016-2018 and the non-financial spending limit of the state budget for 2016. By bringing this agreement to the House today, the Government fulfils its duty and the obligation it has assumed with all the Spaniards since the beginning of the legislature to ensure at all times the general interest, which in the case of Spain is to overcome definitively the economic crisis. That's what we committed ourselves to after winning the general elections in 2011 with broad citizen support. That has been what we have been doing over these three years and that is what we intend to do until the last day of our mandate, and nothing is going to divert us from that project and obviously from the path, the path, that we are developing. The objectives of budgetary stability lay down the limits of debt and public deficit to which all public administrations must move. It is part of the capacity, the power conferred on the Government by the Constitution, the coordination of the general economic policy of the country and, therefore, of all its public administrations, and the design of the framework within which both the autonomous communities and the local entities must act when drawing up their own budgets. The guidelines emanating from the Government must be followed by all, and this has allowed all the public administrations in these years to comply with the objectives committed, which has restored great credibility to our public accounts and made it possible for Spain to begin to overcome the crisis. On the other hand, as honourable Members know, the expenditure ceiling represents the front line for the next year's General State Budgets Bill. Our aim is to draw up, approve and process in Parliament for its final adoption budgets that provide the Spanish economy with the stability and credibility necessary to remain in 2016 on the same path as we are now going through. These are budgets which, like this year's budgets, serve the economic recovery, the growth of gross domestic product and, more importantly, the creation of employment. The Spanish economy - it is impossible not to recognize it - is increasingly at a better time and we cannot stop that process. The Spanish economy cannot afford to go on vacation, our economy needs to tell the world that it continues to move forward and that it does so with the same guidelines that have made it emerge with so much vitality in recent months, in recent years. It is our obligation to transfer citizens and businesses the certainty that economic recovery will follow, that we will also continue to reduce the public deficit and that the country will have budgets next year to move forward with the definitive overcoming of the crisis, so that economic activity continues to grow and that employment, above all, can grow ever more vigorously. The government's objective is that in the next parliamentary term we reach - as President Rajoy has already announced and reiterated on numerous occasions - the 20 million occupied, which we were already able to register in Spain at the beginning of this crisis in 2007. These 20 million occupied would make a large part of Spain in full employment and we are already very close to recovering the gross domestic product at the beginning of the economic crisis. With a growth like that which we now predict, next year, 2016, Spain will have a volume of economic activity very similar to that which we had before entering this economic crisis. Therefore, the Government's project is to draw up budgets thinking that it is best for the Spaniards and the best to continue along the path that has placed us as a benchmark of economic recovery in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the place that Spain occupies today in Europe and in the world has nothing to do with what we lived in just over three years ago. The current Spain and, above all, the one that is projected for the next few years does not look at all like Spain of 2011. We are much closer to being the country in which we all recognize ourselves; the country that entered the euro Europe with solvency, which helped to found it and which in the following years lived the economic process of greater progress and greater job creation in our entire history; a process that was interrupted by the financial crisis of 2007. Three years after seeing us on the verge of the rescue, on the verge of the financial collapse as a country, and three years after seeing how the treasure of Spanish society prevented the rescue and the financial collapse from being a reality, now - as I said before - Spain is becoming a reference from all over Europe. Our policies have put us at the forefront of growth among European partners, and even more importantly, in terms of job creation. According to the International Monetary Fund, our economy is going to grow the most this year among the world's major industrialized countries. Some of our European partners will grow, but they will grow less than half as much as we will. The OECD forecast is that, between 2015 and 2016, we will be at the forefront of job creation among all the member countries of the organisation, as we are already at the forefront of job creation in the euro area. Getting here hasn't been easy. Getting here has required efforts and sacrifices that are now getting their reward. Getting here has been possible thanks to a budgetary policy based on control, reduction of the public deficit and austerity in spending, parameters and assumptions that we are not going to abandon at this end of the legislature, because they are the parameters, premises and conditions that have allowed us to get here, overcoming and overcoming so many difficulties, and that is proving in practice to be the only solution to the economic crisis in our country. It is the budgetary policy that has been reinforced and flanked by the labour reform that has so much modernised collective bargaining in Spain, by the consolidation of the banking sector that today credit to small and medium-sized enterprises is a reality and, moreover, with increasingly accessible interest rates; with an energy reform that has made it possible for us today to lower the price of energy such as electricity, light consumption, which are absolutely essential to improve our competitiveness and our capacity for economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is growing today and creating jobs because, during these three years, we have made a great effort to clean up the accounts of our public administrations. When at the beginning of the parliamentary term we were able to have full access to the financial situation of all our public administrations, we found that their total deficit was 9 %, rather than the 6 % which the previous socialist government had warned and committed. That was not a forecast failure; it was a failure of fiscal policy, of budgetary policy, which, in turn, had promoted the loss of revenue of around €70 billion and an excessive increase in expenditure, which led to the scenario of budgetary stability to which we were committed to Europe and, of course, to ourselves. That failure led to Spain's own economic activity and promoted the loss of 3.5 million jobs and also led to an increase in public debt by more than €30 billion. What did that increase in public debt do? It was buried in the tons of unproductive and inefficient spending and it was also accompanied by this very strong fall in tax revenues, while our balance of payments offered a strong external imbalance that turned the deleveraging of the Spanish economy into the great outstanding task, the great challenge that we have faced in this legislature. The first thing we had to do was show that Spain was able to turn the situation around and control public spending while we stopped the fall in income in absolute terms and as a percentage of gross domestic product. In this work we involved all the public administrations because we were playing the very viability of the State of self-government; I do not say since we had in luck the financing of the State of welfare. There were many voices that denounced in the years 2011 and 2012 that Spain could not bear the weight of three levels of public administration with their respective expenses. That was not the case, as is being demonstrated in the case of Spain in the correction of its public deficit. When that fiscal consolidation effort of all the administrations came to fruition and we began to meet our deficit targets, the countries of our environment and the financial markets began to regain confidence in Spain. In this way, we are dealing with the risk of rescue and, therefore, the danger of being subjected to harsh and surely inappropriate economic and social conditions in exchange for obtaining funding. What we did do is open up the financing of our economy, which would facilitate the current stage of economic recovery, of economic growth, behind that key of confidence. We have been able to retain our political sovereignty in order to get out of the crisis, since no one has imposed our policies and reforms on us, and we ourselves have chosen a policy of austerity, but a policy of balanced austerity, which means that we have not even been cut short, so that the deficit will end up getting out of hand, nor have we abused austerity any more from the account, which would have put social spending at risk and would surely have strangled the chances of growth and job creation. The results are there, in our figures. The deficit is controlled. Last year it closed at 5.69 % of the gross domestic product and this year it will reach at least 4,2 %, i.e. less than half of what was at the end of 2011. However, the social expenditure of the general government as a whole has remained at 27.5 per cent of the gross domestic product throughout the legislature, so that pensions have maintained their full volume, purchasing power, as have unemployment benefits and long-term unemployment benefits, and that health, education and social benefits policies have, of course, been sustained in a more than fundamental way, largely because the State has been indebted to finance autonomous communities and municipalities so that they can continue to carry out these welfare State-specific policies. Finally, we have ended the economic recession. Last year, in 2014, the economy grew by 1.4% on average annually, picking up the change that had taken place since mid-2013, and this same year, in 2015, we will grow by 3.3%. And if in 2014 more than 400,000 jobs were already created, in 2015 we will close with more than 600,000 new jobs, identify them in social security affiliates or in the labour force survey. These figures are the best result a country can achieve, they are not those figures that some denounce by calling them macroeconomic, they are the opportunity to develop its vital project on the part of our citizens. These figures are the result of policies that we have been practicing since the Spanish Government over the past three and a half years. You have to ask yourself, from now on, what do we have to do? The answer is: We have to follow the same path, the path that is making us overcome the economic crisis, the path that is making us recover the levels of well-being, the only path that is making us recover the job creation and, therefore, aspire that in a few years we can have the volumes of employment - for everyone, but especially for our young people - that we had at the beginning of the crisis. It's reasonable. I know that there are voices in this House that constantly rise up against what they call austerity policy. There they are. These figures of economic growth and job creation have exceeded all the forecasts of the international bodies of the European Commission and have, of course, amazed many of its members, who have repeatedly denied them from this rostrum, from the very beginning of the legislature. Or are they going to deny me that they have been amazed when they now come up to express their appreciation and opinions? Not to us, nor have we been amazed because we have understood them as the fruit of a policy, nor have we been surprised because they come from the efforts of Spanish society and we know what Spanish society is capable of doing; we have lived it. We experienced this when Spain was excluded from the euro foundation's career, when Spain in the 1990s had an unemployment rate of 25%, when Spain in the 1990s had a public deficit of 7%. We did not meet any Maastricht convergence criteria, and we were condemned - it was then said - to the second speed or to the third division, to the regional division of Europe. That is what the Spaniards have been able to overcome and have always done with the governments of the People's Party. Some of those who call for the end of austerity are the same ones whose lack of austerity caused those 3.5 million more unemployed, exactly the same ones. Others, who demonize austerity, share stifling economic recipes such as those we have heard this morning. They have to be classified as what they are, staggering economic recipes that end in financial corralitos and pension cuts. We have neither bank corralitos nor pension reductions. The Government proposes to follow a path of undiminished austerity, where the priority is policies that drive growth and job creation and where the only unrelenting expenditure is social spending, which qualifies our welfare State. The general government deficit target is set at at at least 2.8% of gross domestic product in 2016, with the following breakdown: the central government will have to close the year with a deficit of at least 2.2; the autonomous communities with at least 0.30 of GDP; social security will also have at least 0.30; and local corporations will maintain budgetary balance. In this way, Spain will be able to comply with the Stability Pact and will be able to abandon the excessive deficit procedure. The control of the public deficit in this legislature is the history of a collective success, it is the finding that all public administrations can work together for the common good and it is also a clear example of how the common good is also the sum of the benefits that each of the parties obtains. As I said to your ladies and gentlemen, the control of the deficit is one of the factors that contributed most to Spain's recovery of its international credit and to the fact that today we are financing ourselves at very low interest rates. In this scenario, all territorial administrations have achieved better financing, either because they have gone to the liquidity mechanisms offered by the Government or because their membership in Spain, together with the effort made, reduces their access to markets. The value of what we have achieved among all is precisely that, in which we have done it together. If that had not been the case, if the municipalities, the autonomous communities or the central administration itself had been left out of the effort, the credibility of Spain as a country, of its autonomous state, would have remained in question and doubted the viability of our model of territorial organization. I would like to insist that it has been a collective effort, first of all, because it defines us very well as a State and enlightens us on the path that we must all follow in order to achieve success in the face of the adventures of those who wish to prove fortune outside Spain, and, secondly, because we have been listening for three years to the fact that the State has called for a greater effort from the autonomous communities than from itself and that this is why some have not achieved their objectives. We have even been listening to the last few days, coming from the new autonomous authorities, those that were born after the elections on 24 May, that the state remains more demanding for the next few years with the autonomous communities than with its own accounts; that is not true and I want to take advantage of this appearance to explain it. The adjustment that has taken place since 2011 has been very balanced. The central government ended 2011 with a government deficit of at least 5,1 % of gross domestic product, the largest of all, and closed 2014 with a deficit of at least 3,50 %, after an adjustment of 1.60 points, minus 1.60 points of deficit reduction by the general government. The autonomous communities, for their part, have made a very similar adjustment of 1.68 points, compared to 1.60 - I insist - of the General Administration of the State, after the autonomous communities started from a deficit of at least 3.34 in 2011 and closed 2014 with a deficit of at least 1.66%. Thus, the figures allow us to continue to affirm that the one-time effort to reduce the public deficit has been made by the autonomous communities and less by the proposed objectives that we bring to the House. The adjustment of the local entities was achieved by 93 cents in these three years, but it has been of great importance because it improved its forecast of budgetary balance and transformed it into a surplus of more than 0.53% in 2014, offering scope for all administrations to meet the target committed to the path of reducing our public deficit. Finally, Social Security is the only one that has increased its deficit in this period, but I must admit that this deviation has been inescapable because we are talking about one of the basic pillars of the welfare state, the one that most protects citizens, the one that most reflects the commitment between generations, the one that best cohesives our society: pensions. Pensions are paid in all the territories, in all the autonomous communities, in all the municipalities of Spain, as is the case with unemployment benefits. I do not know whether you will agree with me, ladies and gentlemen, but I assure you that the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group are convinced that what cannot be intended is to reduce pensions. That was the red line marked by the President of the Government since the beginning of the legislature and which has been firmly maintained these years at the worst times. This is why the pensioners have retained purchasing power and why the expenditure on unemployment benefits has remained until unemployment has started to fall and the destruction of jobs has been halted. In the new stage that we have opened, whose objectives reach until 2018, the consolidation effort will continue, but it is not true, as has been said, that the autonomous communities will have to make a greater effort than the others. Between 2015 and 2018 the central government will have to make an adjustment of 3.3 points of GDP, until reaching a total reduction, since 2011, of 4.90 while the autonomous communities have, from 2014, an adjustment of less 1.66 points in four years, half as much as the state. Social security will be able to reduce its deficit by 0.96 points thanks to the improvement of the economic and labour situation. There are groups in this House whose concept of budgetary stability and financial sustainability is not far from the approaches of the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group, because in fact they voted in favour of the Organic Law of ratification of the Stability Treaty. What happens is that politics is like that, and then it has made those same groups systematically vote against the general state budgets that we have been bringing to this House. I now appeal to everyone, but specifically to those groups, given that fiscal consolidation is going to follow and that from now on it is the State that is going to make a greater effort to control the deficit, to support the proposal of these agreements. The second objective of stability that we must face - and we must do so with determination and urgency - is the reduction of public debt because it is a question of financial release of Spain from the rest of the world. The debt has increased markedly, especially at the beginning of the legislature, precisely to respond to the various needs that were irrefutable if we wanted to get out of the crisis. Indeed, our public debt, which stood at 743,531 million euros in 2011 - 69 % of our gross domestic product - has risen to 1,033,857 million euros in 2014 - 97,7% of GDP - and this expression is still heard in this House: How has it been possible? Basically, for three reasons, for three chapters. Firstly, because of the need for funding as a result of the public deficit itself, which continues to exist in Spain. That is why it must be reduced in order to reduce public debt and its presence, its weighting on gross domestic product. Secondly, because it was necessary to pay what was not paid in 2011, it was necessary to pay the invoices. This is the principle, which we have also heard this morning, recognized in this House even by members of the left, let us say, more ideological: invoices must be paid. We have not invented another formula, we have to pay them because, if not, behind that unpaid bills is the bankruptcy of the State, the closure of public services, the bankruptcy of countries. It is said that historically there have been cases, of what? Debt default? Of course there have been cases. Spain is one of the European countries that has suffered the most public debt defaults in history, in the 19th and early 20th centuries. What did that bring? That brought decadence, loss of well-being, that brought the impossibility of achieving economic development and brought a Spain much more delayed than the other solvent states. That's why he said that we had to pay everything we had to pay, we had to pay the commercial debts recognized already as public deficit of our administrations if they weren't paid. That meant paying for utilities, outstanding health bills, outstanding education bills, outstanding social benefits bills. Because those senior residences, those disabled care homes and those unpaid bills by non-governmental organizations that were effectively combating social marginalization and the risks of extreme poverty had to be paid. Other invoices had also to be paid - the obligations recognised as outstanding in budgetary terminology - which were in the major ministries for investment, such as the Ministry of Development and Environment in a special way. The whole legislature paying bills from the past. That is also positive because thanks to that, by paying those bills, we inject into the productive economy of our country, we save hundreds of thousands of jobs, tens of thousands of businesses, self-employed people and their businesses. We also did so with the large companies that are suppliers of these public services, largely multinational companies operating in our country. Therefore, the policy has been to inject this volume of public debt into the productive economy, paying invoices directly to companies. As a result, the budgetary restriction we have experienced in Spain has been compatible with an economic recovery from the second half of 2013, consecrating in 2014 with the closure of economic growth above 2% and an average of 1.4%. The other, all the less important, cause of the increase in public debt in our country has, of course, been the use of the MED for the consolidation of the banking sector, for the recapitalisation of the banking sector, which amounted to 3.8 points of debt in terms of gross domestic product. That's what a part of the left recognizes and identifies as the rescue of the banks. Can anyone seriously wonder what would have happened with Spain, with bank depositors, with savers and with small investors? Can anyone seriously think that the banking corralite, the financial corralite that we see today in a euro-member country like Greece, would not have been reproduced in Spain? Hasn't that been avoided by calling for MEDE funding to regain the credibility of our banking sector? How would bank credit have been recovered in Spain to small and medium-sized enterprises - as I had previously had the opportunity to report and so it appears today in certain information - and to increasingly accessible interest rates if we had not done this policy of bank consolidation? Is there any doubt as to the effectiveness of this policy when, as a country, we are already returning that debt that we are asking for from the MEDE? We are already returning it thanks to that economic growth and the revenue recovery that comes from that economic growth. Furthermore, let us not forget that at this time our contribution to the rescue loans of Greece, Ireland and Portugal also means that our own public debt has increased by 2.1 points of GDP in these three years. It is the process similar to what we are going to experience now and which was already announced by the President of the Government who will bring to the House to facilitate financial aid to Greece. This is the explanation of why debt has gone from 69% to 97% at this time, almost 98%, in three and a half years. It is an explanation that justified it at the time, but it does not mean in any way that we do not also have the urgent need to reduce those levels of public debt in our most immediate future. The markets, our creditors, have understood this so well that they have increased confidence in Spain as a result of the implementation of this budgetary policy, including the increase in public debt. That is what explains the fall in the risk premium and, of course, the lowering of all interest rates on public treasury issues. Why? Because they were valuing our ability to gain competitiveness, because they were valuing our ability to save and because they were valuing the deleveraging, the deleveraging of the private sector of the Spanish economy, which in these years has exceeded 35 billion euros in the deleveraging of non-financial companies and families, reducing very substantially in this period. They have also recognised and valued the control of the public deficit, which I insist is not that it has been compatible with economic growth, but that it has facilitated such growth and, consequently, job creation. Since last year they have also greatly valued our economic growth, the present but also and above all the future, as a factor added to debt sustainability in general. What makes a country's debt sustainable is its economic future, it is how that economic future presents itself, whether it is full of opportunities or, on the contrary, full of difficulties and shadows. In our case, in the case of Spain, the economic scenarios of growth for the following years until 2018 really guarantee a future of opportunities for Spain. That's why we're financing ourselves as we are, and that's why creditors believe in Spain. We are now in a process of stabilising public debt which in 2016 will begin to fall, of course also as a result of the decrease in the burden of the interest rates we pay and by the own effect of the autonomic stabilisers derived from economic growth. The forecast we bring you here is that the debt will increase from 98.9% of GDP from 2015 to 98.5%, which is a very modest reduction but which will continue to improve in the coming years to 93.2%, so that we will have fallen very significantly throughout the journey to 2018 by 5.7 points of our gross domestic product. Ladies and gentlemen, our prediction is that the evolution of the economy will result in an increase in tax revenue of 4%, even after the effects of the tax reform we are applying - which will be the next item on the agenda of this plenary - have been included - and that non-tax revenue will grow by 3%. As we have also announced, much of the consequences of this increased collection and the outstanding liquidation of 2014 will cause the territorial administrations in Spain, those that manage health, education and social benefits policies, to have an increase in significant resources for next year. I have already said that almost 70% of the budget of our autonomous communities and of our municipalities is devoted to social spending, and it is therefore normal, and we must celebrate, that they have the financial sufficiency to ensure the provision of such important tools for our well-being, for our society of equal opportunities. It is the same effort, I insist, that makes it possible for the Government also to reinforce the social expenditure that depends on the State's budgets, thanks also to the savings that the unemployment situation produces due to the improvement of the labour market. The provision for financing territorial administrations is in fact going to increase by almost 8 %. I insist that this will also help them to reduce their deficit, to meet the objectives that we bring to the House, while the revenues of the State after the divestiture are barely increased by 0.8%. Local corporations will also see significant increases in their resources for next year. Moreover, as I have already said on other occasions, the new economic situation allows for a new model of financing for our autonomous communities and our local entities, which is more just and which guarantees the provision of basic services to all citizens on an equal footing, regardless of where they reside, to be put in place as from next year. As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, Spain will achieve its stability objectives by maintaining that policy that we call austerity, which we do not confuse with cuts in public spending. Our non-financial expenditure limit is set for 2016 at EUR 123,394 million, 4.4% less than this year, or what is the same, EUR 5,666 million less. The budget forecast is to maintain the available spending of ministries and increase only those items in areas that we consider to be of particular importance, of particular social significance. Of course, we are talking about pensions, we are also talking about resources in the fight against tax fraud, against labour fraud and also as a result of the implementation of the Lomce. It is possible to do this without making cuts because there are some items of expenditure that are decreasing due to the good positive developments that I have already noted, particularly in the labour market. We hope that the savings of the Public Employment Service will also be significant. Let us return - already to end - to the argument of the public deficit. If in these years we had not focused on the reduction of the deficit, we would not have improved the financing that Spain obtains and, therefore, now we would not be talking about that next year we will pay less interest. Nor would we have growth and jobs like the one we have now and, therefore, unemployment would not be reduced, with what we would follow, like those who try to swim against the waves, making an exhausting effort without being able to move from the site. On the other hand, I would like to stress that economic growth is the one that allows us to maintain spending without the need for cuts. Last year GDP grew by 1.4%, this year we expect it to do so by 3.3% and next year by 3%, all in real terms; in nominal terms we expect growth to be somewhat higher this year. Keep in mind that if the economy grows more than expenditure, this will mean a percentage that the expenditure will weigh downwards on that gross domestic product. In this way, expenditure which hardly varies in its total amount, last year represented 43,5 % of gross domestic product, this year will be 42 % and in 2016 will be 40,6 %. With expected income equivalent to 37.8% of GDP, our deficit next year will be 2.8%. Following the same path, government spending in 2018 will amount to 38,4 % of GDP compared to expected revenues of 38,1 %, which means that we will have reduced our public deficit to only 3 tenths of GDP, although to achieve this, it is precisely not to change economic policy and not to change budgetary policy. I'm done. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is going to work until the last day of this legislature. We owe it to this great country, to Spain, and we owe it to the Spanish citizens, who have managed to bring Spain forward with their efforts. It is time to return the efforts made. We cannot interrupt the good progress of the economy by proposing undesirable flexibilities in the public deficit or by delaying the approval of budgets for several months. If we did, we would be introducing elements of uncertainty that are never good, and less when we are precisely in an economic recovery, in a process of improvement, and what we have to do is to stimulate it to become more income but above all more employment opportunities. Therefore, the stability objectives for the period 2016-2018 and the state's non-financial spending limit for the next year that we are debating in Congress project the same philosophy of the government action of these four years in budgetary matters, a government action based on these premises of seriousness and rigour in the fulfillment of our forecasts and commitments and in stability, a government action that has obtained the recognition of the institutions, the recognition of international organizations, the recognition of our European partners and the recognition of the markets. That confidence is allowing us to move forward with increasing determination in economic growth and job creation. We are there because we have won it at once, we are there because of the efforts of the citizens and we are there because the Government has chosen the right policy against what has been done in other countries, as we are seeing these days, and against what we have often been asked to do - and I will not, of course, remember - on this half day. We are there and we want to continue to be there in the future in order to further improve and offer the Spanish new employment and welfare opportunities. That is why I call for the support of the House. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u53	Thank you, Minister. Position-fixing turn. For the Socialist Group, Mr Rangel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, if you had any doubts about your intentions in presenting the State's General Budgets for next year, I assure you that your intervention has completely and absolutely dissipated me. You are in the campaign, you close this legislature as you started it, processing general state budgets thought not, as you claim, to serve Spain and the Spanish, to serve the general interest, but to serve their electoral strategy. You know what happened to their first budgets, which delayed them waiting for the Andalusian elections. I hope the same thing happens to these people. They are now anticipating a parliamentary procedure by taking advantage of the absolute majority that they still have, rather than anticipating the elections, as I have already told you on some occasion, because their policies, despite what you continue to say, have failed; and I do not say this to you, but have been told by the citizens in the last elections. They are more confident in changing their communication and using the budgetary procedure for political propaganda and not for changing policies, because they are doing exactly the same. They are policies that have resulted in more unemployment, devaluation of wages and expulsion of talent abroad, especially among our young people. They are policies that create precarious and poorly paid jobs. Today we have talked a lot about Greece. Well, look, together with Greece, we are the country of the European Union that has the most part-time workers for lack of another option. They have done nothing to boost a new pattern of growth and that is where the political debate lies. You keep almost the same more devalued, but you have no choice but to acknowledge in the documentation attached to the agreement that we are discussing today that employment productivity is negative for next year. Indeed, the forecasts of the government's macroeconomic scenario imply a cyclical recovery due mainly to external factors, favourable financial and monetary conditions due to the fall in oil prices, the proactive action of the European Central Bank and the depreciation of the euro. Thus, the primary balance forecasts are mainly based on these cyclical factors: recovery of public income and fall in expenditure on unemployment benefits and debt interest. The primary structural deficit barely varies in 2016 compared to this year, which reduces the credibility of the public debt reduction path, which is close to 100 per cent of gross domestic product. The government has set the non-financial expenditure limit for 2016 at EUR 123,394 million, which means a 4.4% drop compared to this year, keeping the spending available from ministries. The expected evolution of public spending is a cumulative reduction of 5 points of GDP by the end of 2018, according to the stability programme. Whatever they say, this forecast means that spending on education and health will continue to fall, which is reflected in growth well below nominal GDP and in maintaining the level of public revenue around 38% of gross domestic product. They shine for their absence some kind of additional measures to bring us closer to the eurozone average, which confirms that they give everything to the cyclical recovery of the economy, as I have told you, with the risks it carries for the stability and sustainability of the welfare model. In fact, his policies are undermining him. In 2016, the public deficit should be reduced by 1.4 percentage points of GDP to 2.8%, which amounts to some EUR 15 billion. To this figure is to be added approximately 5 billion of the probable deviation to be produced this year, bringing it to a total of almost 20 billion euros. The Government expects to adjust this figure for the effect of the economic cycle. Government revenues will increase by around 4%, as will nominal GDP growth, which translates into approximately EUR 15 billion. Expenditure on unemployment benefits will fall, which, in addition to the fall in unemployment, hides the reduction in the rate of unemployment and the interest on debt compared to this year, thanks, as I have said, to the policies of the European Central Bank. In any case, the Greek crisis has demonstrated the great external dependence and the great vulnerability that the Spanish economy still has, which has manifested itself in the rise of the risk premium during this episode. The recovery we have seen in growth, both in GDP and in employment, is due to that economic cycle and not to reforms that the Government has undertaken. That is why we continue to have weaknesses that manifest themselves in macroeconomic imbalances, such as the high public debt; the primary public deficit, the highest in the eurozone - only surpasses us Cyprus -; the continuing growth of public debt, which already accounts for 100 per cent of GDP, and the second highest unemployment rate in the eurozone. But they also manifest themselves in social risks, and they value them very little: the high long-term unemployment and the segmentation of the labour market that slows the increase in productivity, the growing increase in inequality and the non-sustainability of the welfare model. The most important issue is, therefore, how to raise the growth potential of our economy in the medium and long term, which necessarily results in increased productivity. We are seeing that, despite rising growth, employment continues to grow at higher rates and that wages remain stagnant. External factors, as well as short-term and temporary factors, are not sustainable in the medium term. In order for the adjustment not to end by affecting social spending again, it is necessary to carry out a serious and rigorous tax reform, which increases and stabilizes public revenues, and at the same time to revise the model of autonomous financing, since the autonomous communities devote 75 % of expenditure to basic public services, with the aim of bringing resources into line with the responsibilities for the provision of public goods and services and in line with the revenues they can receive. We must no longer punish them with a division of fiscal effort, despite what you have commented, which seriously discriminates against them, as has already been raised by several autonomous advisers at the last Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. He also spoke about the social security system. It is currently the Administration that is taking more risks in the short and medium term to meet the fiscal consolidation path. The Government is repeatedly using the pension shelter. The Reserve Fund has increased from 66,815 million 2011 to 39,520 on 1 July, 40% less than in 2011. The result is a model of precarious jobs and low wages, unintended part-time contracts that reduce workers' contribution income and ineffective measures, such as flat rates, which reduce income through contributions, and the relationship between contributors and pensioners. There is also a fall in interest rates, which translates into an increasingly small income for potential interest for the fund, as it has a part invested in Spanish public debt. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary policy that you propose to us and which outlines the agreement that you are proposing to us today, and for what you have commented, is to continue to cut the welfare state by 2016. The cut could be €5.2 billion less if a tax reform has not been approved that essentially benefits higher incomes. In particular, 1 % is saved by an average of EUR 1,706 for the remainder of the year, while 10 million taxpayers with less income are saved by an average of only EUR 5. Meanwhile, one third of children under the age of sixteen live in poverty. As long as child poverty is a scourge, lowering taxes on higher incomes and big corporations, ladies and gentlemen, is indecent, and whoever does it shows their values, not exactly very social. But it is also an economic clumsiness, because the redistribution of wealth, especially when targeting children, young people and families, has a very high effect on demand and productivity. Such redistribution is the most effective weapon against inequality and to boost our economy. As I said at the beginning, on this occasion they are reusing the budgets in electoral terms. The final reflection I want to tell you is whether you have really valued the social cost of your model. What limit are they going to put at that social cost? Ladies and gentlemen, pure propaganda. The General Budgets of the State put them at the service of their propaganda to paint us a Spain of colors when, in reality, they are building us a Spain in black and white. We must change the policies, Minister, not the propaganda of the policies. To do this, we need to change the government and, in that, the Spaniards will find us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u55	Thank you, Mr. Rangel. For the Catalan Group of Convergence, Mr Macias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more year the distribution of deficit targets between public administrations is unbalanced. The State party distributes and, as the saying goes, remains the best part. It would be logical for public administrations to have no deficit, and if they do, it is because their tax revenues are insufficient to cover their expenses. As a result, the annual margin that Europe allows Spanish public administrations to have should be distributed among the central, autonomous and local administrations according to two variables: their ability to improve their income and their expenditure responsibilities. With regard to income, Minister, you know that the central government is the one who has the capacity to increase the tax bases and rates. Between 2012 and 2013, the Government increased VAT, the IRPF, corporate tax, excise taxes; it did not remain tax without touching. Now, by 2015, you want to wash your face with an IRPF discount, but we continue to pay more VAT, etc., and all the increase in revenue, everything, has gone to increase the revenue of the state. Therefore, from the income perspective, it is the central administration that should have the least problems to reduce its deficit rapidly, while the possibilities of the autonomous administrations are much less. From the point of view of expenditure, Minister, the deficit should maintain a certain proportion of the expenditure capacity of each administration, but that is not the case. The state and social security account for 59% of expenditure, but 89% of the deficit; the autonomous communities account for 30% of expenditure, but only 11% of the deficit. Look, Minister, the state remains almost 89 % of the deficit and only gives the communities the possibility of 11 %, while this is the share of expenditure. [[Display of graphs]] Look at the imbalance. This is not balanced. You're cheating on us with the data you're presenting. Year after year, the annual path of budgetary stability shows that the municipalities have been saved, the autonomous communities have been saved and, practically, the State has not been saved. The State has the most revenue, the least expenditure-saving and the least deficit-reducing. The State, moreover, Minister, does not comply with its own laws. You have made a reference to the Stability Law, which we voted for and we stood by you; but you do not comply with this law. The distribution of the deficit by administrations, according to the Organic Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability, establishes two conditions for meeting the deficit targets. Firstly, it sets the year 2020 as the limit for no one to have a structural deficit. Secondly, as you know very well, it states that during the transition period, the deficit targets for the central administration and the autonomous communities have to be distributed according to the percentage of structural deficit that each administration had on 1 January 2012. This implies that the administrations should have reduced the deficit of 2012 at the same rate, which has not been fulfilled in any of the years of the People's Party government. According to the law, in 2016 the deficit of the autonomous communities should be 1.09 % and not 0.3%. I find it very curious that the State, which always says - I understand that it does - that the most important thing is to comply with the laws, does not comply with them when they go against it. Therefore, Minister, you must know that Convergence cannot in any way support this ceiling of expenditure. What needs to be done is a new distribution of deficit targets. It's also, as you know, income time. The autonomous communities that have made all possible spending adjustments are no longer able to do so. We are not saying this, but the Independent Fiscal Authority, which, in one of its most repeated recommendations, calls for a review of funding at the various levels of public administration in order, Minister, to bring resources into line with responsibilities. Minister, you have said - I have noted your expression - that social policy is an irrevocable objective. It's not sincere. Here there is a social policy that makes the State Administration - pensions and unemployment -, but other social policies - health, dependence, dependence, dependence, dependence, education - make them autonomous communities. You know perfectly well that by constraining them, as you do with these deficit targets, you are cutting through the indirect and above blaming the autonomous communities. I do not say it to you or to you only Catalonia, many more communities told it; even the communities of the People's Party, who, like the others, suffer this absurd policy that also keeps you away from its rationality, say it to you. You make a rational and rigorous speech that you could share, but all this loses you with your autonomic scarring. What's your goal, Mr. Montero? I believe it is to end the state of self-government, but you do not realize that what you are ending is the patience of the citizens and the credibility of the government. Mr. Montoro, rectify. It has been asked by the autonomous councillors, it has been asked by the councillor Mas-Colell many times and I ask him. This scarring is putting an end to the Government's credibility. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr Picó, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u58	Minister, I say to you that the members of the Catalonia Democratic Union are going to vote against the objectives of stability and the non-financial spending limit that today brings to the plenary for the following reasons. Firstly, the objectives are not geared towards economic growth or the fight against poverty and social inequalities. The government's objective of budgetary stability and expenditure limits is too demanding for the reality of our economy, which, while improving - it is true - this improvement comes in large part from external factors, volatile factors that we do not control 100 per cent. The Catalonia Democratic Union has always talked about three major pillars to fight the crisis with the utmost competitiveness and effectiveness. One of them was to combat the excessive public deficit, of course, but at the same time we incorporated two fundamental pillars, Minister: to put in place mechanisms geared to economic growth and at the same time mechanisms that avoid social inequalities and, unfortunately, neither the deficit targets nor the expenditure limit that it brings today guide economic growth and employment generation nor fight against poverty and social inequalities. Secondly, the criteria for the new distribution of the public deficit between the different administrations are disproportionate, unfair and unfair, Minister. You know perfectly well that the distribution you have made of deficit targets is called to failure for several reasons. First, while the bulk of public spending on education, health care and public services falls almost entirely within the autonomous communities, you set the deficit target for the central administration at a minimum of 2.2 for 2016 and for the autonomous communities at a minimum of 0.3 for 2016, totally decompensated with the social spending obligations of each administration. Secondly, as Mr Macias said he has done throughout the legislature, he is violating the legal system by failing to comply with the first transitional provision of the Budget Stability Act. And thirdly, the State continues to appropriate income, both through direct and indirect taxes, and continues to centrifuge social spending to the autonomous communities. Remember, Minister, that the autonomous communities have received nothing from the increase in income that led to the rise in VAT rates and excise duties. In addition, contrary to what you said and also reminded Mr Macias, until 2014 the Autonomous Communities have concentrated 52% of the adjustment effort and the General Administration of the State and the Social Security system have only participated 15% in deficit reduction. The autonomous communities, Minister, have made a greater effort, concentrating these public administrations on social spending on education, health and social welfare. It was condemning the autonomous communities to totally unattainable deficit targets, which would lead to increasing economic tensions and make it increasingly difficult for them to adequately cater for their own services. You are well aware that the majority of the autonomous communities have asked you for a higher margin for next year and also that all autonomy, without exception, Minister, urged you to negotiate a new funding model. That favourable report of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council has many nuances that the Government has not addressed at all because its true objective is to guarantee the budgetary and financial stability of the General Administration of the State, that is its objective. The entire determination of deficit targets is currently affected by the Lofca Amendment Act, which we approved last month, which re-centralizes everything that can be done to ensure its budgetary and financial stability and nullifies that of the autonomous communities. It is centralized because it is suspicious of the financial performance of the autonomous communities and it is paradoxical and contradictory to establish criteria for the distribution of the deficit if finally the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities is de facto annulled. [[The lady]] Minister, we demand more flexibility, a more appropriate sharing of the objective between the autonomous communities, the local authorities and the State and that it comply with the law. A year and a half with an expired system of financing of the autonomous communities is not welcome, Minister, it responds to the way in which you understand the state, to the conception that you have defended throughout this legislature, which is the most absolute recentralisation. That's not our model. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. For the UI Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, in order to guarantee the right of access to the truth of citizenship your reports should be accompanied by a call for attention similar to that contained in the cigarette box or that phrase that appeared in the films: Citizens are warned that any resemblance to reality is pure coincidence. Do you remember? That's what happens today with your spending limit forecast. Once again, it is the fourth, you present yourselves with a scenario - and you know it because you have repeated it on many occasions - of budgetary stability which has three characteristics. First, it is an incredible and treacherous forecast - then I will try to prove it to you; in fact, it has already been shown the time that has elapsed since the previous forecasts -; second, it involves an unbalanced distribution of the effort - however much I try to paint it - between autonomous communities that punishes them especially, with conditions that are what you want to achieve: a re-centralisation of the state and a very negative impact on social policies because, by reducing the space of the public sector in social policies, you open new business opportunities to the private sector. And thirdly, it would entail significant risks of growth of social inequality and poverty if that expenditure scenario were to be completed; you say so yourself, because the objective of stability that you propose fundamentally is to achieve it from a reduction of public expenditure, by 4.4% in two years, which is mostly social expenditure. They explain it clearly. Mr Montoro, you should be more careful when you self-name yourself adelicate from austerity and above all when you tell us that the others are maneuvers, because I remind you that those that have led us to the disaster in this country have been essentially public administrations governed, among others, by the People's Party; for example, the City of Madrid, with Mr Gallardón, or the Valencian Community. They've been ruled by you. You create the fire and then, when you try to turn it off, you present yourself as the great firefighters, and above you throw us in the face of the others that we are maneuvers. No, austerity is a very nice concept, but it can be austere by entering more and also spending more to meet social needs or, as you do, by cutting public spending. Once again your painting is not credible, Mr Montoro. If in 2014 the public deficit target of 5.5% was not achieved - you know it stayed in 5.7-, if the deficit reduction between 2013 and 2014 has been only 6 tenths, from 6.3 to 5.7, can you explain how you intend now in two years, 2015 and 2016, to halve that public deficit, from 5.7 to 2.8? Can you tell us how? The truth is that it does explain it: brutally cutting public spending, that is, social spending. Moreover, all this is being done at a time when you are taking advantage of some elements that we might call tailwind, such as the favourable decisions of the European Central Bank, which do not imply any demerit in relation to you; you are taking advantage of it and it seems to me very well, but the scenario, even for improving income, takes into account these external factors. To put it straight, Mr Montoro, your prediction is unreal, incredible and treacherous. You know that the only way to reduce public spending in the dimension you are putting forward is by changing the chainsaw of social cuts to a bulldozer that takes down important aspects of the social state. This is what it seems they are going to do after the elections, although now they are presented to us - now, and in the decree-law that comes next - with lamb skin; in practice, they are real predators of social rights. Besides, they don't cheat on anyone who wants or can read. In the recommendations of the European Council for Spain that you accompany in this scenario of... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u61	Mr Esteban, you are being heard from up here and you do not allow the speaker to continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u62	In the scenario presented, the recommendations of the European Council for Spain, in which it is clear that it is essential to adopt more structural measures in 2016, are attached to us. You know that in the lexicon that you and the Community troika have, more structural measures are more cuts in social rights and expenditure. Why don't they announce to us, since they are so responsible and don't want to leave everything behind, what are those structural measures that they are already proposing for the year 2016, since they approach their vision so far away? The reality is another, and it is that they are again prepared to perpetrate a new electoral scam like that of 2011: promise one thing before the elections and do exactly the opposite afterwards. As it does not give much time to see, in order to ratify that its forecast of reducing the public deficit by half is false, I will concentrate on the Social Security budget. The 2015 expenditure ceiling set a social security deficit target of 0,6 %, and you know that by the end of May this year the trend is towards a deficit of 1,1 %. And it's not as you intend to insinuate that you are the greatest advocates of pensions, it's that that was in those terms at the beginning of this year. We told you and you told us no; you denied it, as you are now denying us that what is going to happen in 2016 is what we are telling you. It is not, I insist, a diversion to improve pensions; it is simply evidence that you make unreal and false predictions to square the numbers to hammer. It is not that the rate of growth of pensions has increased; on the contrary, it has been attenuated. The problem is that the rate of income drops. Why? For the consequences of his policy. Labour reform, from 24 to 34% part-time contracts, generalisation of temporary contracts, precariousness, reduction of wages. Total, lower average contributions. Result? You come here, and you are pandering to the fact that the rate of growth of the contributors is 3.4%. Yes, but they forget to say that the rate of contribution income is 0.94%. Why that deviation? Simply as a result of their policies, that is not a biblical curse. If you launch precariousness and wage cuts, you pick up the storm of lower income for contributions. The result is that that is going to happen this year and, therefore, the 2015 forecasts were already unreal and so will the 2016 forecasts. Please do not deceive - you and Mr Rajoy - the citizens of this country again. It is not true that at the moment we are at the same level of employment as when you started the legislature. National accounts, latest updated data, for the first quarter of 2015: today there are 355,200 full-time jobs less than in the first quarter of 2012, when you took over this government. That's the reality. That the job is recovering? True, but what kind of job is recovering? An absolutely insolidary distribution of employment, with which there are many contributors and much less employment because you have made each job, three. I have to tell you something that I think is important. Within the section of deficit distribution between autonomous communities you are right in one thing - I leave it for the end - but in what you are not right in denying to all groups in this House that the adjustment that is taking place between public administrations is profoundly unbalanced. The fundamental weight is borne by the autonomous communities, which is above all in social spending and is not in proportion to the budgetary weight they have of distribution of resources but is an infinitely higher weight, you look as you look. Because behind that approach there is no miscalculation, there is an obsession of you, of your Government, for re-centralizing the State, a coup - democratic because it is with votes - but a coup d'état to the Constitution and its Title VIII in relation to the autonomic model. In that sense I have to admit that you are right, there are some who voted for this Budget Stability Act and then complain about its consequences. I know some very close, for example, Convergence i Unió, who voted at the time Organic Law 2/2012 - and it was also explained with great pleasure - and then it turns out that they complain about the consequences that that carries in Catalonia. Well, yes, gentlemen of Convergence and Union, that happens when... [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] That's what happens when these gentlemen of the People's Party are given blank checks. Moreover, it is unfair in social terms. You cannot continue to raise a reduction in public spending while there are 470,000 dependants who have recognized the right but do not receive any benefits; when there are about 2 million unemployed without benefits, 1,900,000 people. It is a real provocation, sincerely, for the Government to justify the improvement of the deficit - it does so literally - as a result of the lower expenditure on unemployment, because that comes primarily not from a reduction of the unemployed but from a fall in coverage: 2 million unemployed without benefits, half of those who receive only the assistance subsidy of 426 euros. Mr Montoro, it is true that the debts have to be paid, but you have a debt mainly to the Spanish people, the debt of the brutal cuts that have been applied to them. And, instead of giving guineas, as we shall see at the next point, what you must do is return the rights that, taking advantage of the economic crisis opportunistically, have usurped the citizens of this country. Instead of boasting, the Government should be ashamed that the way to reduce public spending would be to leave 2 million unemployed or 480,000 dependent without the legally recognized benefit. Circumstances have made this week...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u63	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u64	Circumstances have wanted this week to have to be on one foot here and another in hospitals with my mother. Do you know how the hospital waiting lists are right now and the days - because sometimes they are days - that you have to spend lying in the middle of a hallway in the hospitals? That is certainly not your responsibility alone, but it is also your responsibility, because you have cut indirect spending on health care. That is what the citizens of this country must recover, not having to suffer the humiliation of not being able to be cared for in their rights.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u65	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u66	I'm done. Indeed, instead of walking around Europe so proud to pay interest on the debt of the rescue of the banks, they should feel ashamed to put the interests of the rescue of the banks above the interests of the rights of the citizens of this country. Your spending ceiling to what leads us to is that. Therefore, a little less to take out the breast and be a little more humble, even at some point I would lower my head because a little shame you should feel. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u67	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fulfilment of a country's deficit and public debt targets depends on three realities and, moreover, on the order I am going to say, although the drafting process is exactly the opposite. Firstly, the evolution of the international economy; secondly, the evolution of the national economy and, finally, the budgetary policy of State administrations. Precisely because this is so, curiously the fulfillment of the deficit and debt targets for 2015 is going to occur paradoxically because the forecasts you made last year for the spending ceiling have not been met. It's a paradox, but it is. If you look at how I put it, it's not so paradoxical. Let's look at it, let's look at the international macroeconomic picture that you collect to support the possibilities of the national macroeconomic picture. The first thing to say is that, at least, it is optimistic and, at most, illusory. Let us look at the growth of gross domestic product outside the euro area; you point at 4.3% next year, half a point more than this year. The agreement with Iran is going to help bring down the price of oil - they did not expect it or perhaps so - but it is the only thing I see on the horizon that will go in favor of its forecasts because, instead, they have the financial crisis in China and the low economic growth of China's gross domestic product, around 7%, and we all know that a growth of China's gross domestic product less than 10% is literally eaten by population growth. If we talk about Russia, we are talking about recession and, above all, we are imposing sanctions which are more damaging to some countries of the European Union than to others, for example Spain. With regard to the United States, the International Monetary Fund's forecasts - those in which we are told that we are growing more than the United States next year - point to moderate growth in the United States. Therefore, this that the gross domestic product next year is going to grow half a point more than this year is, at least, questionable. This affects Spanish exports because if the countries that have to buy us grow less, this of which exports increase by 1.6% compared to 2015 to reach 5.2% is also questionable. You keep this from the short-term interest rate to zero percent as if that were a dogmatic truth, but the interest rate that applies to us in the short-term will depend on how the Spanish economy goes. The exchange rate, the same thing. You apply the euro-dollar exchange rate at 1.10 %. That's how it is right now, we'll see in 2016, which is for when we're making the predictions. All that without taking into account the impact that the Greek crisis is going to have, even with rescue. Let's go to the national macroeconomic picture. Here it is interesting because when you compare the same data as you reproduce in the reports of international bodies - the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD - we sometimes find coincidences and sometimes discrepancies. Firstly, they all envisage a reduction in the growth of Spain's gross domestic product compared to that which it had in 2015; it varies by 2.8, but, by the way, the government's most optimistic one. In view of the data on which they are based, this is the result, on the one hand, of a contraction in private spending, a contraction in government spending, which is what we are discussing here, a discrepancy over gross capital formation. Some international agencies say there will be an increase in gross capital formation, which could offset the fall in public and private spending, but others say no. There are also discrepancies with respect to the balance of the trade balance. The European Union and the OECD say that we will have a positive balance, but the International Monetary Fund that the balance will be negative. With regard to employment developments, all the reports do agree. It's going to reduce unemployment, it's going to increase employment. Interestingly, when we look at the employment growth data that you use in your forecasts, it is going to grow in a similar way to 2015 even though you admit that the growth of the gross domestic product is going to be reduced by at least 3 tenths. That is juggling, the growth of gross domestic product is reduced, but unemployment is reduced in similar terms. There is a discrepancy with regard to the public deficit; of all, the government's forecast of reducing the public deficit is the most optimistic, with a reduction - which you have pointed out here and which is in the spending ceiling - up to 2.8%. Let's go to the last point, which depends on the government and the public administrations and on which you have put the emphasis: the fulfillment of the deficit in 2015 to see if we will be able to comply. Indeed, the deficit forecasts are going to be met, but, as I said at the beginning, they are going to be met because the forecasts for the growth of the gross domestic product are not going to be met, they are going to be far above what you looked at last year. Why did this happen? Because you have found a number of particularly significant international circumstances that have favored you, because exports have grown more than imports, and because there has been an increase in domestic demand greater than you expected. Also for some extraordinary fact that has made it possible to increase income, for example, fiscal regularization. That has facilitated it, but once they are regularized, we already know what can be expected from income for the following year. There has also been some extraordinary fact which has increased spending and which you recognise, for example, the payment due for the famous health cent, two thousand and ten million euros. What, on the other hand, do I not see changing the government's fiscal policy? No change has been made - and other honourable Members who have spoken earlier have already said - or the system of financing the Autonomous Communities has been updated. I see no mention or prediction of the impact this may have on the deficit and debt for 2016. I ask myself, and I ask myself, is it that if they win the elections, they will not tackle this decisive reform of the financing system of the autonomous communities? On the other hand, they are increasing public debt, at the cost of what? At the cost of reducing the private debt of households and non-financial corporations. That is to say, what we are succeeding in reducing through the immense private debt that there was, now it turns out that we are compensating it with the increase in public debt that the public administrations have - bad business that - in order to achieve in the medium term - horizon 2020 - a stable system of budgetary balance. Nor is there any reference - they have already pointed out - to the cuts that have accumulated, not the one-year cuts that have accumulated during all these years in social policies. For example, it could have been discussed how to avoid duplication of institutions and public bodies such as, for example, what is going to happen in the Valencian Community, which will reopen Channel 9 of television; or how to redistribute the fiscal burden and public expenditure to improve the economic reality of the weaker and marginalized social sectors; or how to compensate the middle classes, which have been the real contributors to the crisis. In short, his proposal for deficit and debt targets for 2016 is the expression of the government's wishes, but in our group we do not see a solid basis that really supports that can be achieved. Do not hesitate, this year we will meet, despite its economic forecasts, the deficit targets, but in our opinion it would be reckless to believe that this year's exception will occur in the following years. That corresponds more to the elucubration than to the analysis. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u70	Thank you, Madam President. We can say, Minister, that with your intervention you have started the publication of the report of the electoral campaign of the PP which will culminate with the formal approval, if Mr Rajoy does not prevent it, of some budgets, those of the year 2016, which will most likely not be managed by the People's Party, or at least will not do so in the way it is doing it. Today they begin to take the first steps we would say of an unprecedented democratic fraud in this House, which will presumably only count on the votes of your parliamentary group. It is not acceptable, Minister, that they should use this House so blatantly for electoral purposes, forcing a procedure and deadlines that lead to the adoption of budgets that are not going to do any good; for nothing more than to make an election campaign promising all kinds of tax cuts and increased spending in order to get a handful of votes. Who do you want to cheat on? Gentlemen of the PP, I do not know if you will win the elections or if you will rule, what seems obvious is that you will not have the absolute majority you currently have. So, regardless of the government, whether you are or not, the next government will have to review and remake the budget document from top to bottom. New economic data will lead to a new scenario and new forecasts of revenue and expenditure, to new priorities, to a reorganisation of the items, ultimately to a new budget. Why then are they trying to approve a budget that is not going to be implemented, forcing parliamentary machinery to the extreme. Why comply with the forms that cover up a bottom-up fraud? Yes, Mr Montoro, for a handful of votes, I suppose, for the elections, to comply - as I said - with the report. And we have to denounce it and we want to do so today from the Basque Parliamentary Group. Furthermore, not only do they force this House, Mr Montoro, but they also force the autonomous communities. At the preceptive meeting of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, where the path of the deficit of the autonomous communities is established for the next three years, you have received a no-fly. You were accustomed to the vast majority being governed by the People's Party, but since 25 May the autonomous and municipal political reality is quite different, as will surely be the result of the new general elections. And most of the autonomous communities have said no to their public deficit proposal. And what have you done? Apply the roller, your quality vote. I know it's in your right because that's the rules of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, but applying those rules has overtaken the will of most autonomous communities. That is, if the autonomous communities give him reason, well, and if not, impose it. Doesn't that sound like some kind of totalitarian behavior to you? Moreover, threatening them that the law will be applied rigorously, and it is true, not all of yours have supported you, Mr Montoro. I therefore believe that more than threatening we must recognize the new political reality and I think it is better to negotiate, agree and agree. It is better to use democratic talent than authoritarian talent. You, Minister, did not care what the Autonomous Communities were proposing, all you wanted to do was cover the procedure in order to be able to approve the figures the next day in the Council of Ministers and bring them here today for validation. I wanted to fulfill the forms outside the bottom. So when someone said something to you, you said, "Wait a word." At least I will recognize one thing, with the autonomous communities of common system collected in the Lofca has had the detail of meeting, with the Basque Government, on the contrary, has not done so. As every year I have to denounce this situation, that the Joint Commission of the Concert has not met and has not been able to agree the path of public deficit for the next three years, and according to the Law of Concert... [[The Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero, delivers words that are not perceived]] Mr Montoro - I don't know what you're trying to tell me - the Concert Law is not among the documents I've received. I have received documentation from the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council and the National Commission for Local Administration. I therefore understand that, at least at this point, the Stability and Concert Act establishing this obligation has not been complied with, and I assume that this should be interpreted as meaning that these public institutions in Euskadi are not affected by the agreement, unless you make another legal interpretation. And you know that I am not saying this to you on a substantive basis, because, as you know, the Basque Government is meeting the public deficit targets, but on a matter of form and respect for the laws that I believe are important. Believe me, Mr Montoro, I say this without acrid, despite my insistence, without acrid but with firmness. Apart from these issues, which are nothing but vague, the debate on the expenditure ceiling becomes a purely macroeconomic debate, with no more data than those of the macro table and those of the deficit target distributed by institutional levels. That is why today too, like other times, I am going to say that this debate is a blind debate, meaningless from the point of view of the debate because there is no excessive information. We cannot debate the budget, priorities and objectives of distributions and items without knowing the guts of the econometric model to draw up the forecasts. Thus, it is more an act of faith that we perform today than anything else. I have no doubt that the figures are the right ones or the ones taken from the macroeconomic table, but you will recognise me that they seem to be prepared for the occasion. We are sincerely glad that the economy will grow by 3.3% and if it can grow more, much better, and that it will also grow by 3% next year. This is good for everyone and especially for those who, thanks to this economic growth, can even find a job that, according to government information, is of low productivity and, therefore, the safest is that it is precarious and poorly remunerated. I say this because the expected increase in employment is similar to GDP, so at least the apparent productivity, which is what is defined, does not increase, and we must recognise that this is at least a problem for future economic development. It is also true that, while improving the situation, the unemployment rate will not fall this year or the next 20%, or will be slightly below 20% next year, twice as much as the European Union and more than twice as much as the unemployment rate at the start of the crisis. That is today, and the next parliamentary term will also be the outstanding subject of the new Government emerging from the ballot box. If we stick to the public deficit figures and the effort to be made by the various administrations, we note that the central government remains with the broad part of the funnel, while the narrow part of the effort applies to the autonomous communities, apart from what you have commented this morning, Minister, when you have emphasized that this is not true, but other groups have also raised it this way. According to the data, the general government as a whole is expected to close the year with a deficit of 4,2 % and the target of 2,8 % for 2016 is set, logically in line with the European stability programme submitted to the Commission. Well, while the deficit reduction for the central government is 0.7 points, from 2.9% to 2.2%, next year - a reduction of approximately 25% - the autonomous communities will increase from 0.7% to 0.3%, a decrease in principle to 50%. The reduction is therefore higher in the autonomous administrations which, as has also been said here by other speakers, must respond to policies as basic and essential as, for example, education and health. Hence the demand and dissatisfaction of many autonomies, which demand greater room for manoeuvre and do so in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Finally, Mr Montoro, you will have to explain to us in more detail how the economy, which is growing by 3% this year and the next one with a moderate deficit reduction, is not able to generate higher incomes and leads us to keep the expenditure available from ministries unchanged. According to you, there will be a zero increase, even though certain important items, such as interest or unemployment, will decrease. How is it possible that the non-financial expenditure for the next year is 123,394 million, 4.4% less than this year's expenditure ceiling? I know that paper endures everything or almost everything and I have seen the figures that the government has offered us, but common sense points in another direction, Minister. He may not tell us anything now, but he will have to explain to us - at least when he brings the budget - why not even in years of high economic growth - like this and next year - it will be possible to recover something from the lost path throughout the crisis. As you well know, with this limit investments will not be able to increase and neither will innovation nor social spending be able to do so. That's why we're waiting for your explanations. In the meantime, and for the reasons I have tried to argue, because of the electoralism of your initiative and because we do not understand but as an electoral key your involvement in bringing to this House and approving budgets for next year, we will vote against this agreement from the Basque Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Larreina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u72	Minister, I will not go in and question the figures of the limits you have given. Other speakers have done so, but for me it is not the fundamental thing. My group, Amaiur, is most concerned about the philosophy behind all that, why. In the end, the important thing is not whether the deficit is going to be 0,2 % or 0,3 %, but what are the sums and subtractions that lead to these figures. The figures you have proposed may seem reasonable to me, but what I do not see as reasonable is the context that leads to those figures. That's what worries me. You have put a lot of emphasis on economic growth and stability. Economic growth seems important to me - I do not deny it nor have I denied it from the beginning in this forum and you know it - but what worries me is that this growth is socially and environmentally sustainable and also in time. If growth is the result of the conjuncture, in the end we are going to be like at the beginning, and that is one of the concerns of Amaiur, that we think growth is the result of the conjuncture, because the structural problems that in our opinion exist in the economy of the Spanish State have not been addressed. That is the element of our concern. You were talking about structural reforms as the big parameters that guide this growth; you were talking about labour reform, financial reform and electricity reform, and all three have a lot to do with the country's competitiveness. Unfortunately, those reforms had not contributed to that economic growth, and they could have contributed to making it even more and more stable, especially over time. It talks about labour reform, and labour reform has led to precariousness and lower income in Social Security. Wages are not an element of competitiveness. You know very well, because all statistics from the European Union, the OECD and so on show that the main element of the Spanish economy's lack of competitiveness in labour costs is non-wage labour costs. That is where we have the big difference with the rest of the European Union. It is an issue that has not been addressed either by the previous Government or by it, and is therefore an element of concern that continues over time. He was also talking about financial reform. We're in the same place. In other words, the benefits of such financial reform have not reached the real economy, and they must have arrived much earlier. That's another one of the problems. This financial reform is therefore not a success factor either. We thought we had to do it, but we had to do it differently. It talks about electricity reform, another element also of lack of competitiveness, and the measures that have been taken are not in line with increasing the competitiveness of the productive economy, of the industrial economy of this country. It remains another factor of lack of competitiveness compared to the rest of the European Union. We're worried about that philosophy. I believe that behind these figures that you have raised and the forthcoming budgets that you are going to bring to this House, is the classic debate that we were studying in the faculty a few years ago, the famous debate that took place between cannons and butter. Now we could talk about cement and cannons as well, and butter and social spending. I am talking about cannons because, if we look at all the legislatures of his Government, the only chapter that has increased significantly over the budgeted, from year one to the present, has been that of defence spending, in a totally unorthodox way, especially if we compare it with the rest of the government's social spending chapters. Philosophy is also one of the fundamental problems, how these sums and subtractions are made so that in the end the figures of expenditure ceiling, deficit limit, etc. will come out. That's where we can't agree. Another element that we are also concerned about, because it is an element of permanent imbalance, present and, above all, future, is the Social Security Reserve Fund. It is an element that can endanger and break the entire system of the State. All Governments have taken advantage of this fund when they have been in need and yet there is no response to this permanent decline over time. That is where his Government's main ruling lies. The determination you have made to lower taxes is a serious irresponsibility. It is very easy and it is very good for society, and especially in electoral times, but, as the President of the Government said in the previous debate, there are measures that, although unpopular, must be taken. In this case, it is a measure that must not be taken, even if it is unpopular, even if it is much easier to say: you have tightened your belt and now we will compensate you. Actually, it is not time to compensate, when the fundamental problem that the Spanish State has is, among other things, public indebtedness, for the figures that you have given. He wants to go down to 93% in a number of years, but it's going to be hard if they're still on that path. I think we need to approach that and say it clearly...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u73	Mr. Larreina, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u74	I'm done right now, Madam President. We cannot lower taxes when we have all these outstanding tasks, when we are in danger of the sustainability in the time of the general budgets of the State, of the economy of the State, when we are in danger of a very serious situation, such as that in other areas of the European Union, if we continue to do so. That is why we are not going to vote in favour of these figures, and not for the figures in particular, as I have said, which could be worth if the sums and subtractions are changed, but for the philosophy and approach that you are giving to the whole budgetary question. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u75	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are facing you another day. You're the devil to us. Well, the performance, you understand me. You're a joker, too. You, for us, are the representation of the economic drowning that condemns the autonomous communities and, especially - or also - Catalonia. In fact, in the distribution of the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt, we have been saying for years that it would be more logical to respect the percentage that each administration has over expenditure. For example, for the autonomous communities, which account for 30% of expenditure, they would have to have at least 30% of the deficit target set. If for 2016 the total will be 2.8, we would be talking about 1.1 and not 0,3 %. In fact, this is a debate that we have repeated in other years. But you, Mr Montoro, are precisely this, as I said, the problem. You control everything and decide everything. And in the case, for example, of Catalonia, although it is also valid for other territories, you control revenue, expenditure, deficit and treasury and, look, arbitrarily apply the financing system. For example, it decides to liquidate this year's increases in VAT or IRPF collection in 2017; it sabotages revenue by challenging taxes created, for example, by the Catalan Government; namely, the tax on bank deposits, which would have meant an income of 685 million. In fact, it is the equivalent of spending almost two large hospitals. And then it limits the deficit and saves cash instruments like the FLA. By the way, money or resources that are ours, that are expolated to us; like that entrepreneur who cuts a worker's wages, then he is given what he cut as credit, that is, that he will be relieved of future wages, this is the perversion that you represent.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u77	Mr. Tardà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u78	Before I told you demon, but it is understood that politically you are our problem, which is why you do not escape that what we want is to become immediately independent. By the way, if everything's going well, very, very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u79	For the same group, Mrs Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the presentation of the expenditure limit and the budgetary stability target for 2016, the government goes beyond what is acceptable, Mr Montoro, by claiming to leave its harmful economic policy for the future government in its inheritance. It is not enough for these four years of the legislature to show that putting fiscal consolidation and the reduction of the deficit as the only priorities implies a huge sacrifice for job creation and the guarantee of basic public services, but to commit itself to maintaining this mortgage, Mr Montoro, for the incoming government. Simply because of the undemocratic nature of this move to approve the next year's budget without having the legitimacy to manage it, it is what justifies the vote against the Galego Nationalist Block. It is really incomprehensible that the whole budget package will be approved in order to endorse the same mistakes that the current budget economic package has made to the new government. Throughout this legislature, if there has been a remarkable fact, it is not economic recovery, but, as has been pointed out in numerous economic reports of various institutions and entities, social inequalities have been increasing exponentially. Mr Montoro, if the expenditure limit is reduced by 4.4%, because, as you say, the expenditure on unemployment benefits is going to be reduced, the question is why these funds are not allocated to employment promotion policies and is being released from that expenditure to social security, which is being deficient. In your speech you said very proudly that pensions were not going to be reduced, but they were not going to be reduced as long as the Reserve Fund existed and that fund is running out, Minister. [[The Lord]] Why, then, do they not transfer to Social Security that difference that they say is going to be left because they do not pay the benefits for unemployment? The answer is very simple - we assume it is clear after the so populist proposals they have made in the electoral area of budget reduction - and that their claim is to reduce the income of the State, which, unfortunately, they have not wanted to solve; they have wanted to continue insisting on social cuts rather than increasing the income of the State. And again, being the percentage of deficit attributable to the smaller autonomous communities relative to the percentage of expenditure they manage and represent in all the public administrations of the State, the reduction requirements are higher than those of the General Administration of the State, since it absorbs almost 80% of the capacity of the deficit - 78 % - compared to just 11% that is allowed to the autonomous communities. It should be remembered - it would not be necessary to do so - that the autonomous communities provide the majority of basic services to citizens: health, education, social services, which in average terms account for about three quarters of their total expenditure. For this reason, the cuts imposed on the autonomous communities in order to reduce the budget deficit mean in most cases a loss of rights on the part of citizens, especially for the most vulnerable groups, who will not have access to these public services. We could talk a lot more about this proposal that you made us this morning,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u81	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u82	... But you see that we do not have time, so we are voting against it once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Davila. For the Joint Group too, I now have the floor, Mr Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u84	Thank you very much, as always, Mr President. Mr Minister, you must conduct frankly negative pre-election surveys because if it would not be possible for this long self-appeal of an electoral nature to which you have subjected us in your intervention. You said: nothing is going to divert us from our policy, our intentions. And we have to add: neither does the evidence seem to be, because clearly there is evidence and that these policies do not work. We always wonder where you read these things. We don't find them, and you know why? Because it is not economics, but ideology and it is noted in the issue of the spending ceiling. He insists again and says: is that with less we do more. More harm is what they do with less, as it is natural, because, honestly, I don't know anyone who creates this supposed, unusual axiom of expansive austerity. With authority you don't grow, problems grow. But the expansive austerity in relation to the economy is a kind of dogma of faith that I understand to be practiced, but from ideology not from economic rigor or from data, because otherwise the data would be others. Here today there have been a few exercises that I think are very interesting and it is very graphic also in relation to the deficit target, and it has been told to the full. Besides that the social damage it produces is tremendous, from the Canary Islands it is a triple mistreatment. The deficit target is unfair not only for the reasons already stated, but also for economic indicators. I do not know if it is worth it that in the Canary Islands we are in a rate of unemployment above 30% and youth unemployment above 57%. In addition to a system of unjust financing, the Canary Islands loses 800 million euros a year - this has been acknowledged by some of its partners -. Therefore, it is unfair to ask for more in addition to this. And they are also insolidary, because Canarias is one of the four communities in the Spanish state that has fulfilled the deficit. We have the highest deficit compliance and the worst funding. If you analyze it well, business is not the best possible. One gets a face, let's say, of stupefaction. Exquisite completion with the worst funding and a dramatic social problem is not reasonable. It's hard to bear. In addition, its proposal for a deficit target is arbitrary. If the autonomous communities - as has already been said here to the point of satiety - have almost twice as much public expenditure as the General Administration of the State, how is it possible that the General Administration of the State has eight times as much deficit capacity, which means that it is financed to those who do not owe and less to those who have the most important obligations? This is unreasonable. I have to tell you something I think you've already told everyone. The Canarian nationalists will vote against this proposal for the arguments I have been able to offer in three minutes and twenty-three seconds. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo, for your conciseness. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u86	We were talking the other day, Mr Montoro, on account of the financing of the Autonomous Communities and I told them that they had had time to make more than two hundred laws and decree-laws but had not had time to address the financing of the Autonomous Communities. Even this year they will have time - fitting it as they can - to approve the General Budgets of next year. You told me - between you and me - that time they had had but that what they had not had was money. This money is relative, Mr Montoro, because now you have just made an electoral cut of 1.5 billion and tomorrow we will pass a decree of 800 million for armaments. Therefore, this is relative. This is due to the fact that today we are talking about the objective of budgetary stability, ultimately the deficit and the public debt. Last year, of the total percentage of the deficit the state assumed 69 and this year 78, that is, it grows 9 points. Last year the autonomous communities assumed the 16th and this year only allows the 10, that is, 6 points below. We're a little bit more attached to us and you're a little bit more detached. In short, knowing that in 2014 the government of the Valencian People's Party increased the debt by more than 5 billion there, in Valencia; that in April 2015 the Valencian Community already had a deficit of 473 - 0.4 of the autonomous GDP -, double that on the same date of 2014, and that it has already consumed in just four months all the deficit that corresponded to it by 2015, as Matías Prats says: Forgive me to insist, Mr Montoro, one of two, or the rulers of the Valencian People's Party are very inefficient or the funding is absolutely insufficient, and you and I know that the key is in financing. You have said there on many occasions that it is clearly insufficient, but then you only dedicate good words, pats, and next year or tomorrow we will address funding. Now, despite acknowledging our unjust and raquitic financing, we are tightening our rope a little more, and you know that the Valencians will not be able to fulfill it. We will not, or will: we will be able to comply by failing to provide essential basic services. I would remind you of what the European Parliament said last year in its recommendations: Fiscal consolidation efforts must be distributed fairly among the different administrations, taking into account the services they provide. This, what brings us here today, is not a fair distribution of effort. The state stays with most and the autonomous communities with the crumbs, and that is what we have transferred education, health and basic social services. So we cannot approve this unfair distribution. It's over, Mr. Montoro. They will go on vacation - we will see if we are going on vacation - without having done the duties of financing and, worse still, they will leave the Government without having done precisely those duties, the duties of financing, as was their obligation. Therefore, once again, we cannot approve this unfair distribution. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I rise to this rostrum to set my position in the debate before us on the objectives of stability and expenditure ceiling for 2016. We were already talking last year about what it is necessary to change the principle of austerity to the principle of economic growth. The picture we have today under your direction is very definite. Everything is, in my view, due to the beginning of an electoral year for all, but above all for the national Government. The document that we are proposing is in line with the last years of expenditure contained, since the public deficit must be reduced, which must be at 2.8 of GDP in the next year, as it has transferred to Brussels, with an expenditure of 123 billion and a reduction of 4.4% on this year, that is, 5 billion less than in 2015. The government is raising GDP to 3.3%, but it does not shift this increase in income to increased expenditure, nor does it shift it to job creation, our big problem, thereby reducing the unemployment rate by just one tenth. This implies that the next budgets will take the same direction as the previous ones and, presumably, zero amendments accepted. On the other hand - and this is very important - on the accounts of the autonomous community, Mr Montoro, the guardianship is established in exchange for extraordinary financing and total economic dependence. This is the Rajoy model of financing - on which you and I had the opportunity to exchange opinions on the occasion of an inquiry and the consequent motion - because of the territorial inequalities involved, and this is not going to be solved by the spending ceiling, which is not used to invent à la carte financing, where three autonomous communities - Catalonia, Andalusia and Valencian Community - add 74.7 of the benefits of the extraordinary financing mechanism, according to your own ministerial note of 12 March last, rewarding those interested and crushing small communities, such as Asturias, with the universal 0.3 deficit, because in the end you are right: we are only a million inhabitants, with an average growth of at least 1.5 % and with a debt level of 16,12 and therefore it is not fair to favour us with any kind of expansive policy. Whom most fails, most facilities. So is this model of the old regime, as would be said in the 19th century. Asturias will be part of the group of regions where recovery activity and employment will have a smaller strength; it will grow by 2.5% this year and by 2.3% in 2016, widening the gap with the other communities. I conclude my intervention in this farce, if I may, of room economy that is transgressed as often as it is necessary to hold the deficit that you have, wishing you a good professional future, but get out of the territorial mutualism, an invention of yours - I remember perfectly this expression - because that invention you know that it means to depend on the gracefulness of the central government. It is not sustained in time and the problem of financing the autonomous communities remains as long as the model is not properly reformed. Do not count on my support in the final vote. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Navarro People's Union - I remember every year in this process - made an electoral commitment to the People's Party, which expressly included supporting the State's General Budgets. And we, Minister, like to be loyal to the word given. As he would say: clear accounts, old friends. You're talking about fulfilling commitments. My party has had the highest responsibilities of government in the Foral Community of Navarre and in the toughest economic period in the recent history of Navarre, and of course in Spain, we have fulfilled our obligations. We have reduced debt, we have controlled expenditure, we have reduced the deficit. We assume the challenge of having to be better managers with a great political cost, it is true, but we have done so convinced that this was the only possible way. Navarra is one of those communities that has complied and has done so rigorously, and I would like to express and thank the efforts of all Navarra society as well as all those who, aware of the need to adapt the Administration to a 25% reduction in public revenue, understood that the survival of a small community in number required rigour, determination and cooperation with the Central Administration. It is true that experts today make forecasts of GDP growth of up to 4%. I took the trouble to see in the hemerotheque the debates of previous years and the truth is that that's a figure that some of us couldn't even dream of, it was a utopia no more than a year or two ago. What used to be a utopia today, I don't know if in an objective but independent way, different agencies - the International Monetary Fund, OECD, etc.; all those agencies that I imagine won't be so controlled by the government and that don't have to be related - expect to grow in those rates. That reflects a confidence that we too have; in that confidence you, your Government and the various managers of our autonomous communities have had much to do with it. I think that's obvious. The Navarro People's Union is up to us to monitor the correction of the budgets here and also the budgets there, from Navarra. The Government in Navarre announces a reform of our tax system to set more taxes than before, that is to say, to have a worse taxation than that in common system communities; a real nonsense. But we, as I say to you, will be vigilant, and we will also be vigilant about how some important agreements and infrastructures are being moved into this year's General Budgets because there are, Minister, some cross-cutting projects that should have the agreement and cooperation of your Government and also of Navarre. And I'm telling you, we're going to be very careful about what they have in the budgets. I say to you that we are concerned - and quite rightly so - about the political will, the real will, and also the financing of one of the most important infrastructure and investments in Navarre, such as the modernization of the railway network as it passes through our community. As I say, we are concerned, we will be waiting on how it is recorded and, in any case, I ask you from here today to have a sufficient and fair appropriation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Finally, the last speaker in the Joint Group is Mr Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u91	Mr President, one thought that before presenting a draft state budget there was a debate on the criteria with which the government in charge intended to draw them up, but I was faced with a debate on the ceiling of expenditure, on whether there should and should be, on pure accounting, rather than on the progress of the economy in the state and on the criteria for correcting its direction. The criteria for public budgets must be based on the needs of society; only in the light of them are the needs and the existence analysed, the existing resources and the possibilities of finding the new ones are accounted for. In this light and objectives, a social economic policy is ultimately framed, that is, an economy is created for the vast majority of the population. The Government has avoided that point of departure from that needs analysis with a speech full of macrodata that is dusted by the microscope magnifying glass and many examples have been cited in other interventions so I will recall only two: growth data that the micro magnifying glass is pure accumulation of resources in few hands or employment growth data that the micro magnifying glass does not discover but an unworthy precariousness of the quality of the job on which it is intended to continue to accumulate benefits for a few. After this macro-data-based auto-bomb speech, they limit themselves to presenting to society an accounting plan without the slightest prospect of creating new impulses for the economy. Yeah, they think this is just utopian, big words and they'll ironize about it. I appreciate as a gift the ability of some ministers for irony, it is a skill that must be thanked, but they lack another gift, that of self-irony; for example, when analyzing why they have lost so many important autonomous governments and mayors. Faced with this, far from all self-irony, they consider themselves unjustly stripped of their home, as if the powers of all levels were their heritage. His painful reactions are obvious in all cases and the one I know most about is Navarra. The regimental tandem of UPN-PP is considered stolen in its assets, it is considered to be discharged from its residence of power to the point of launching a remedied campaign of the one of Stop Essahucios. I apologize to the worthy activists of this social movement and hope that they will be able to excuse the perhaps unrighteous point of my analogy. They have launched a campaign to discredit the plural alternative and the plans to create new guidelines, which are economic rather than mere accounting. Don't despair the losers now, they'll win again sooner or later, so it's democracy. In the meantime, they criticize the new approaches of the new Government and renew theirs, but leave it unscathed that Navarra society is experiencing new paths. Expect naturally that if these are not satisfactory the Navarra society will once again place its trust in you. Despite the systematic re-centralizing policy of the People's Party to which UPN has systematically doubled, today with the defense and implementation of its economic competences and from the autonomy given to it by the convention...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u92	Mr. Serrano, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u93	... foral, will try to offer real public budgets, not just accounting balances to the dictates of those who do not want political instruments, but technocratic ones and to the dictates of plutocrats supported by pure accounting techniques. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. [[The Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero, asks for the floor]] The Minister of Finance and Public Administration asks me for the floor and he has it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I request the floor to participate as a member of the Government in the debate and to respond to your honourable Members, since all those who have spoken so far have done so with a critical character with regard to the proposal of the agreement that the Council brings to the House. Therefore, I would like to respond in this way to the arguments that have been made so far throughout the afternoon. Let me also make a personal consideration, let us say, of a personal nature. I believe in this Parliament and tomorrow I will have the honour of having this same debate, this same approach to the Spanish Senate. You know that I have been a member of this House even though I am not a member of the Government of Spain, having the honour of representing a political group, the People's Group, in the opposition, and I therefore believe that I am very active in all the elements of the political debate proper to a Parliament. Sometimes I lose my irony, but it is always self-irony in the sense that it devalues my approach, although I do not want to lack at any point of rigour. I want to tell you that it is really an opportunity, that the people we are participating in and that we have been the subject of confidence in general elections, in this case, to represent popular sovereignty, we have a great responsibility in our political action, in the policy of governments and that from our various approaches we seek the general interest. That is the action of a Government in the face of an economic crisis. There will be right and wrong actions, as is logical and obvious; that is, there is no human action that is not subject to censorship or criticism, but for that we also have Parliament's answers. It is true that we are at the end of this parliamentary term and it is time to make substantive considerations, such as those that have been heard. The exercise of power is to make decisions and those decisions have a political cost, but, I insist, it is done according to the search for that general interest, with more or less correct. One government explains and defends what it is doing for its country, and these weeks are also an opportunity to see that other countries that are experiencing the same European circumstance, having the same policies in favour and having the same winds in favour, with monetary policies that are equally expansive as they are members of the euro, also having the same favour of lowering oil prices and having in favour of what is said to be the only thing that pushes Spain's economy forward, they are not right; we are seeing it clearly at the moment. They are members of the European Union, members of the euro, but something different is happening in Spain with regard to those other countries in order for this to happen. I have heard some speeches - without a doubt, all of them very interesting - which I believe devalue the character of politics. If we believed that we depended solely on the international economy, what are we doing here sitting down? We would be analysing the approaches of that international economy, we would be analysts rather than politicians. If we were really convinced that with the decisions we make in this House we do not influence the fate of our country, on the day-to-day lives of our citizens, what would really justify our presence in this House? It would be enough to be present in other institutions; it would be enough to be present in the Executive Council, in the Executive Committee of the European Central Bank because everything would be resolved there. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not all settled. The differential facts that mark our economy and our own circumstances are not resolved, let alone. Even less so, it's all solved. One thing is to live in that global economy to which we are indeed a party and therefore depend, and another very different is to devalue the character of political action and of course the capacity to exercise from governments and to propose to this House proposals or reforms, economic reforms, public sector reforms, banking reforms, reforms of a country's labour relations, reforms of energy supply, reforms of trade distribution, reforms of the opening of our international trade, reforms that really change the physiognomy of a country and make it possible that in that country where there is a crisis, there are clear lights; lights, more than of hope, of well-being and of opportunities for all. That's whether we're doing politics or we understand that. Many times political action, of course, has critical answers from the citizenry, it would be missing more, if we weren't really, not demons, as was alluded to here, but angels, and here Jacob's ladder we don't know anyone, I don't know if you have circulated through it but we don't know anyone. Therefore, here are the representatives of this people, Spain, which has so many reasons, despite the crisis and despite the discouragement, so many reasons when we look at our history and our recent history, when we look at the consequences of our integration into Europe and the global world, there are so many reasons - I repeat - to say that it is worth it, because it is a dynamic society, with the capacity to undertake, with the capacity to create the instruments necessary to safeguard its social cohesion. That's what we have to understand, I understand politics that way. That is why, as I believe in the debate and believe in the contrast, let us talk about figures and let us talk about economic realities, although I understand - I have lived a lifetime in this, a long life already, and I am not referring to the government, but as an economist, as a scholar of the social sciences and in particular of the public finance - that we live different circumstances in this which some call evolution or cyclical exit from the economy. But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to understand that many times they are difficult concepts to transfer to the great public opinion and much more when we live in a society that matifies everything - for example, one objective is the fulfillment of a guarismo with exact figures, but behind that there is a lot of politics, behind that there are a lot of decisions and behind that there is a lot of effort, and especially in the right or wrong of these guarismos there is nothing less than the well-being and progress of Spanish society - to return to those figures. The Spanish economy is growing, that can no longer be discussed, that was discussed last year, I had to contrast it obviously in the debates of budgets, spending ceilings and so on, but now we can no longer deny that we are growing; we can no longer deny that we are growing at the head of the euro area, we cannot deny that we are growing at the head of the developed world, as the International Monetary Fund said. It cannot be denied, this is already so obvious that what is heard are arguments that it is apparently what is happening throughout the developed world. Well, it doesn't happen; it doesn't. What is the European Commission's forecast of growth this year for Germany, France or Italy? And unfortunately, when they have to update the Greek one we will see where it is. But what happens to Spain? Isn't there something different about Spain? Why do we deny that something different is happening to Spain? What's that difference? Why do we deny reality if it's numbers? We are going to grow a 3.3 in average terms according to the government and coinciding with more and more agencies inside and outside Spain. In this period of growth that we are living, without inflation, in the first part of 2015, how much have we grown? A three and a beak already, almost four percent. How much is the job growing? It's hundreds of thousands of people, almost 1,500 affiliates every day. How much is that at annual rate? 3.4% or 3.5% of the annual membership rate. Has there been any time in Spain when all growth has moved, since we are talking about no inflation, to job creation? Never. We had other stages of much economic growth, with nominal higher gross domestic product growth, but this had never been the case. And here you go up to say that then the productivity of the work factor fails, interesting argument. Failing productivity! There's always something wrong! But wasn't it about creating a job? Wasn't that the big question? Was it not a question of opening up in Spain an intense economic growth, as we had never before had, in creating jobs? Why do we underestimate this job creation? Can we say with firmness, with certainty that the more jobs are created, the more inequalities exist in society? Does anyone seriously support this statement? Another denial of reality! We have never lived what we are living, ladies and gentlemen, never, nor did the oldest people in the place know about this situation. I am now speaking as if I were an analyst, a responsible politician or a member of the Spanish Government who has driven those policies to make that possible, for we have never experienced this. Let's look at the macroeconomic picture to see what it means. Have we experienced any stage where economic growth, which in 2015 is going to be 3.3%, comes entirely from domestic demand, i.e. consumption and investment? People are consuming, people are investing, that's the investment. And of course, more moderately, public administrations are also investing, with very modest final consumption. But all growth comes from national demand. However, our country's capacity to finance, that is, our country's position, is in surplus vis-à-vis the rest of the world. What does that mean? That the agents we make up Spain are saving enough to repay the world's external debt. That's what you mean. Had we lived this stage before? Did they know an economic projection of these characteristics? We had never experienced this situation in Spain. When domestic demand grew, the country really needed to ask the rest of the world for new resources and not now. What's behind all this? A really great advance in competitiveness. There is also a financial consolidation of the economic agents that are disbanding and also of the public administrations that is what we bring here as a government project, which is really the first step to draw up the General Budgets of the State for the year 2016. I have already said two unique features of the economy in our economic history. All the growth in employment and all the growth compatible with the financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world, a sine qua non condition for continued confidence in Spain. It is a country that is doing what it has to do because if the creditors do not really turn their backs on us, as we are seeing in other countries also members of the euro, also members of the European Union. It is not enough to be a member of the European Union to generate stability and confidence. You have to present a picture like this, which is really unprecedented in the history of the Spanish economy. Ladies and gentlemen, this had never been the case before. Isn't this good? Isn't that positive? Why are we criticizing him? Why are we censoring him? To criticize the government? You don't have to. Criticism to the Government is made in another way: the positive of the situation is identified and alternative policies are offered. It says: I would be doing it that other way. By the way, what we are doing as a Government is the same as what we proposed when we were opposed. We said that the country had to be disbanded, because it was a mistake to make that economic and budgetary policy that were not lowering Spain's foreign debt. That's what we're changing. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the net external debt has not fallen, as I said in the speech and explained in figures. It has not come down, we still owe the rest of the world a figure very similar to that which we owed at the beginning of the legislature, but there has been a really big qualitative change. As I said in my speech, the qualitative change is that non-financial enterprises have been decommissioned in more than EUR 25 billion and families in more than EUR 100 billion. Look at the figures, ladies and gentlemen. They're really big numbers, which they call macro. That means that in each company there has been a decision to reduce their indebtedness and that has to do with the policies that we have been adopting here. It has to do with tax policies, such as limiting the deductibility of financial expenditure from corporate tax bases; it has to do with economic policy and tax policy in an intimate and profound way. That has happened and, as I said, families too are continuing to delude themselves. That is positive and that is what is allowing Spain no longer to be indebted to the rest of the world. We're doing this by the public administrations, and I've explained it before. I already said that I believe in the parliamentary debate, but when the arguments are heard and answered, not when we have the pre-written intervention to tell the government and the House. I've explained the process before. I have already explained that the debt of public administrations has been increased in such a successful process in terms of generating confidence that more than half of Spain's public debt is held by international creditors. They are not public creditors, they are not owned by countries or states, they are owned by investors and not only from Europe, but from all over the world, investment funds and pension funds from all over the world who have bought our debt. Why do they buy us the debt? Because they believe in Spain and they understand what we're doing. Even if we have to issue debt, we are reducing the public deficit and we are getting to grow; that is the equation that generates trust and credibility, and in that trust and credibility creditors find support. What is the difference compared to the rest of the world between Spain, which is a heavily indebted country, and another heavily indebted country such as Greece? One enters a very deep crisis and the other, as inspires so much trust, continuously generates a financial flow that allows us to grow and create jobs. That's what's happening to us as a country. Now, instead of putting this on the two scales, they go up to say that none of this happens and that this is a country that does not exist. How will it not exist if I am reading the figures of the economy already closed? I'm not talking about forecasts anymore, I'm talking about closed economic figures. What happened during this legislature? That as political groups have come up to deny that this was possible, they are now not going to fail, and instead of finding new arguments and alternatives of economic policy, they come here with arguments, all of them very respectable, like the one that wants to be independent until the one that explains it by the international economy or the one that says it is the tail winds, as if the tail winds were not for everyone. What makes it different from Spain? What makes it twice as big as the European Union or the euro? Ask him like that and then we'll see what answers you find. According to the Government, it is economic policy. That's why we're sitting here, both of us, to do politics. In this case, this debate is about economic policy, a budget-making debate, a debate that derives from the Organic Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability, which does not bring the novelty of what is known as the expenditure ceiling. What we are doing is putting forward the first step in drawing up the State General Budgets in a House that has the basic regulation and therefore allows economic policies that affect the whole of Spain. I have already explained in my speech how we have reached the point of presenting the evolution of deficit and debt targets. I have already explained why the public debt in Spain has grown. And I have explained, ladies and gentlemen, and I am pleased to do it again, that more than 9 points of GDP, 9.4 are paid for from the Supplier Plan, are the Autonomous Liquidity Fund, are all the special financing mechanisms. Where have these special funding mechanisms gone? How many billions of euros are actually 9.4 points? We are talking about figures approaching EUR 100 billion. Where'd this go? You didn't go to school? Hasn't he gone to sanity? Shouldn't those hospitals' bills have to be paid, Mr. Coscubiela? Didn't we pay them? This is the question that your ladies and gentlemen had to ask themselves: You have made cuts by paying everything you owe. Can you imagine that a laboratory, which is a multinational company, would have withdrawn from Spain in the years 2011 and 2012 because the invoices were not paid? Can you imagine that situation? Is it that only banks are closed in Greece today? Pharmacies are also suffering from other types of supply, which is essential for public services. That's what's working in Spain. Didn't you have to pay? You refer to the inexorable economic laws. Of course, there are those who come up here and say: Don't worry, the debt we raise, we restructure it, we change it. And another of the speakers has recalled another economic law that is fundamental, the introduction to the economy, which I studied in 1968, by Samuelson, the dilemma between cannons and butter, the cost of opportunity. In other words, in economics and in life everything has a cost of opportunity. If you do this, you're giving up doing this another one. That is the cost of opportunity and that is what a government always has in front of it. If you do this, you're giving up doing the other thing. But this government's priority is in these figures: we have financed Spain's public services. Those hospitals are open, bills are paid all over Spain. Therefore, when we are recriminated that we have reduced the current expenditure of these hospitals, of health care, they are right, we have lowered the current expenditure, but we have paid so much of what we must that is certainly what makes that health service continue to operate and operate in Spain and be the best in the world; it is precisely that financial mobilization, paid that debt, what we have used - I insist - to maintain public services, maintenance of public services that we have not questioned since government action. We have become responsible when many of the autonomous communities could not pay those bills; others obviously still had access to the markets, but more than half of Spain's autonomous state could not pay those bills. The same was true of the municipalities, which some had come to material collapse, or had those municipalities not come to material collapse? They couldn't pay the suppliers! And not paying suppliers means you can't pay whoever picks up your trash, it means you can't pay whoever gives you the light, that's what it means not paying suppliers; you can't pay for the water supply. That is what we are talking about and that is what this Government, making use of its capacity, is responsible for. That is what we do in supplier plans and in all financial facilitation mechanisms. I have heard in reproach that there are communities that are increasing their debt in this year 2015. At what cost are they increasing their debt? The zero cost. Why? Because it is financed by the State; they have the debt to the State. The public treasury is actually supplying market access for that autonomous community. That's what we're doing and that's a process: pooling debts. And that is so credible that those who continue to lend us are in line with what we are doing as a national policy, because we are a state, the state of autonomy, and the Government of Spain is responsible for the financing of public services. We listened here: let each stick hold its candle. That is not the policy and less the philosophy of the current Government of Spain. It's the opposite. We have said: we are going to pay, we are going to finance among all. That is, we have to commit ourselves to reducing that public deficit because that is what is getting us out of the economic crisis. Or isn't he pulling us out of the economic crisis? Or isn't it causing, as if it were a lever, that economic recovery? It is measured; before we could still have a debate on intentions, on philosophies, but today it is measured. Are we getting out of the economic crisis or are we not getting out with 3.3% economic growth? Are we going out with job creation and therefore with opportunities, which is what we really need in our country? We are emerging from this crisis with a balance of payments as we have not had before, much less, unless we made devaluations, as we did the last of the series of devaluations in the early 1990s, impoverishing the whole country. That is called innocuous policies, which is to make you poorer, to increase import and, therefore, to generate more inflation, which is the worst of taxes. That's called innocuous politics. This is the economic policy debate that we are bringing to this House. On the distribution of deficit targets, etc., you teach me the expenditure in relation to the target. We move on to the consolidation scenarios which is what we bring here behind deficit and debt targets. What was the deficit of the autonomous communities when 2011 was closed, with all the outflow that has also been the subject of political debate? 3.84. How much has it closed in 2014? 1.66. What was the deficit of the Central State Administration? It did not govern the current government of the People's Party, but the Socialist Party, in this which is now called bipartisanism and which I understand differently. Bipartisanism in this country is that there is a government that systematically ruins Spain and another that they call for to really get things going. [[Applauds]] This is called perfect bipartisanism, which is what bothers all these emerging political groups. Anyway, what was the situation of the central administration? I am not talking about the sharing of powers or the sharing of the burden of public expenditure, which I certainly had the honour of contributing in the past to the decentralization of public expenditure, to the sharing of those powers, to the complete decentralization of the health system, of health. But what was it? Less 5.10. How much has it been down to 2014? Less than 3.5. Is this the case or not? What is the Government's proposal? Load it all on the shoulders of the autonomous communities or load much more on the shoulders of the General Administration of the State until 2018? These are figures, but you don't care, go up here and read the figures for the cost-sharing. Ladies and gentlemen, are we going to change the cost-sharing now? Have we made any translation of competences to the state? Are you able to point one out to me in one of those recentralization processes? Are they able to tell me that the General Administration of the State has been left with such competence? No, no, Do you know what we've done? To finance them; by the way, fulfilling our obligation. We have done nothing but go out to the markets to finance these public services when the other autonomous communities were unable to do so. That is why I was saying that this debate on budgets that we are going to start - we are already beginning this afternoon - is the last of the legislature, in which some of you really present yourself as winners of recent elections, elections held in Spain that make it clear that the first political party voted in many of those cities, in many of those territories, has been the People's Party. They don't care about that. The case is that you come together because you all come together with the same ideas, you all have the same approaches to economic policy and social policy. This is life, what does it matter, if it is not governed by political projects, but by coincident communities, as we are now seeing in the proposals within Catalonia. What does it matter if the convergents go now with Esquerra, what does it matter if the important thing is something else. Well, it's nothing else. Politics are projects, ideas, proposals that are made from our political formations to citizens. That is politics and also decision-making, sometimes with consequences, of course, for electoral results. We are in power precisely to make the decisions that are appropriate to the general interest of the citizens and if a price is to be paid, because the important thing is the general interest and Spain. Here there are politicians who think that this is not the case, that the important thing is to coalition with the one who passes by to get to power. That's what we're living through and that's what you call the failure of some unstoppable May 24 changes. If those are the changes, because I have not heard any arguments, Mr Rangel, what does the Socialist Party have on budgetary matters, on economic policy matters, to our country? What this legislature has been, the most blatant denial of all the political initiatives that the Government has brought to the House. That's what he's brought throughout the legislature. They now face economic growth. How do they justify it? Well, I've already told you, because it blows the wind for everyone. It is seen that it blows more for some than for others, that they will not deny it to me, that it blows more for some than for others. Something will have changed in the country so that the so-called wind has a greater influence on one place than on another. If not, propose something because we are already at the end of the legislature, propose something more than a discourse of the rich and the poor, a discourse of inequality, because we are in a country that grows, creates employment, covers social services and gives priority to these social services for pensions. As if the pensioners were not everywhere, as if the pensioners were not in Asturias. I say this because of the speech I just heard: in Asturias there are no pensioners, proportionally. Social services and pension security are in the state, are in the economic evolution of a country, but fundamentally it is in the political will that inspires the action of the state, which is exactly how we have made navigation in this very difficult situation that we have just experienced. Today the public services are much more guaranteed than they were in 2011, as is the whole of Spain, which in 2011 was subject to a hypercritical situation. The absence of all credibility and trust led us to this situation of genuine rescue, which was a genuine financial collapse. That's what we've been living through 2011 and much of 2012. Today we are presenting ourselves here to discuss whether we are going to grow, how much employment is going to be created, what is the policy we have to do on equity and social cohesion through these public policies; that will be the draft budgets that it brings. I stress the importance of those deficit and debt targets; we must continue to reduce the deficit and that is what we bring to the House. Do you or do you not agree with the reduction of the public deficit, ladies and gentlemen? Although the honourable Member concerned is absent, I would like to tell you that what we have done in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council is to set the deficit targets for all public administrations, so when we arrive at the next Fiscal and Financial Policy Council - which is when we need the objectives individualised by autonomous communities - it will be the moment when we apply the law of the concert or of the Navarro agreement and fix those objectives in agreement, but it is not the procedure today. I'm saying that because one of the most expert in this place has confused the process. The process is not that now, they are general objectives of the Autonomous Communities and not individualized objectives of the Autonomous Communities. That is what we are implementing with this Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I urge you to leave behind prejudices and support cooperation and coincidence in the need to reduce our country's deficit and public debt because it is the only way forward for economic growth to continue and be sustainable. If, on 24 May, it means that political forces in Spain will be brought together to put at risk the objective of correcting the deficit and the debt, the growth of Spain will be halted, for the reason that I have tried to explain both in my first and in my second intervention; it will be halted for the reason that the deleveraging of the Spanish economy will be halted, and we continue to depend on the confidence of the creditors. Creditors don't care about one or another policy, don't be mistaken, they don't care about each other, they don't all generate the same credibility and trust. Read what happens in other countries of the European Union. We are all partners, Europe is the great home of ideologies, of course; we all fit in that great home of ideologies, but it is not the same as the effectiveness of some economic policies as that of others; it is not the same thing that is done from certain political offers as it is from others; it is not the same thing as some governments as others. That is the same sense of democracy: difference, contrast. Today the Spanish Government can bring to this House a future scenario of growth and job creation, if we make policies that lead us to meet the deficit and debt ceiling targets, which we propose. That is what I invite again after this intervention for all the political groups to support it, because there is a lot at stake so that in very few years Spain can avoid this situation of unemployment and generate a new situation of confidence, credibility and above all of employment opportunities for all. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. Let the speakers of the groups who wish to speak ask for the floor. [[Mr Rangel Tarres asks for the floor]] We started with Mr Rangel from the Socialist Group. You have five minutes; it's half the time you had for your intervention. You know, it's the replica, and it's got what it has.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I do not know whether you have wanted to teach us a lesson in economics or democratic politics with your last speech. In any case, if you understand politics as we do the others, you have been wrong on one and the other issue. At least I understand politics as the art of managing the public space that we share, and that implies dialogue, negotiation and pact, and that has not been demonstrated by the attitude that they have had not only today but the whole legislature, and I am putting to you, for example, the budgetary debates and the amendments that we have tabled all the groups, because they have virtually not accepted one. Its absolute majority has strengthened a political attitude that has little to do with dialogue, negotiation and the pact. That doesn't help. Moreover, if you understand that politics involves alternatives, presenting yourself as the only one who possesses the truth while everyone else is wrong, it is a weak favor for political debate, democratic debate and this House, because it seems that the others do not know or where we are going. We, apart from presenting you with alternatives and doing our critical function, have also wanted to convey to you what a good part of the citizenry feels, to which you seem not to listen. I do not know if for you Spain are only macroeconomic figures; for us, they are people. If politics is not at the service of people, it serves no purpose; indeed, it serves no purpose. You talk about the maintenance of public services such as health or education, but some of us go through public hospitals and see what situation many professionals - some of us know them, even family members working there - find us told about the precarious means with which they now have to deal with their task. This situation, first, makes us very much appreciate their role and vocation as professionals and, then, we are outraged to see how they have to do practically miracles to carry out what people are asking them to do: to solve the health problems they have. And the same happens in education: in scholarships, in possibilities. How many people know that they have had to drop out of school because the family cannot bear what the change in education support policies has meant? I know a lot of people. Sometimes it seems to us that they are talking about another Spain; surely they speak for what they live in their surroundings, in their friendships, in their neighborhoods. Others live another very different reality and, therefore, we see exactly the economic and social consequences that mean certain policies with which we do not agree, and that is why we denounce them. Making manic and captivating speeches doesn't lead to anything. No one here has the absolute truth, no one is in possession of the truth. We may be wrong, surely, but we are quite clear on what our political project is. Sometimes we have another problem with you: we know that you have one political project but you announce another; you are doing one thing just contrary to what you are announcing. You say that no effort has been made in some autonomous communities or that the Government or the central administration has indeed made a great effort. In the public sector, for example - I also know something about the AGE public sector - only cutting staff salaries or the replacement rate does not address an outstanding problem, which is the modernization of the General Administration of the State. What have they done? How many job relationships... [[The Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero, delivers words that are not perceived]] No, the CORA thing is something else, if you want to discuss it sometime. But they have not done much; rather, what they have done is sharpen that State administration and not make it more efficient, which was what it was all about. The Banco de España has said that net external debt continues to grow and surely from the outside, with its policies, as they say they have generated confidence on the part of the markets. The problem is that they have generated mistrust of citizens in the Government, which is implementing policies that do not understand, understand or participate in them. That is what needs to be discussed here, and that is what, among all of us, we need to discuss in order to find the best solutions; not those that suit certain interests that you are legitimately defending, but those that are minority. We defend the interests of the majority and in that we will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Rangel. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió, Mr Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, one would like to see equal opportunities. You've been talking here for an hour; we've been listening to you and it would be enough for us for thirty minutes, but we have three minutes. We are going to discuss the budgets with you, of course, but since we have so little time I will only tell you two questions. I see you worried about our political alliances in Catalonia, by the way, coinciding with Mr Coscubiela. Let's see if you make a historic pact. Don't worry, the elections are free, everyone is going to vote whatever they want and the citizens are going to decide, which I think you and I always want: it's the citizens who decide. Even Mr Coscubiela will also agree with this. There is an important substantive issue that I would like you to understand. We have constitutionally handed over to the autonomous communities the responsibility for something very delicate: the health of our children, our children, our parents, the fulfilment of social policy duties, education, and it is obvious that the exercise of these functions with minimal dignity requires resources. You can understand, because you know more than anyone, that these resources are the ones that can provide your budget policies. You to these communities as a whole, except for those of regime such as Basque and Navarro, constrain them their income because they do not let them have more income. It even recognizes that this year has a larger tax collection, however, the autonomous communities receive less money this year than last year. If you by the way of control over your income gives them less, it is obvious that you are forcing them to cut the quality of the services they are providing. In addition, they have been doing this for several years; they have adjusted much more to all communities. You are aware that if you give some margins, that are the ones that the Budget Stability Act - that we approved friend Coscubiela for this, but that unfortunately Minister Montoro does not apply it - all communities would have margins that, you know what they mean? Better care in hospitals, more resources for dependents. I'm asking you to have that sensitivity, not to say that when you have debts, I'll pay you back. There'd be more to it. It is your obligation - you have said it - and besides that it is your obligation you would have to have the sensitivity to understand that in the sharing of the deficit you must give these margins, so that they can do as their ministries at least. You have said that next year your ministries will have a zero increase, as a whole. For I ask you the same thing, treat the communities equally, with the same criteria. I propose this challenge. Within fifteen days you have to submit a budget, to see if you are able to solve this equation for which you have fifteen days. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr. Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u101	Minister, let us put aside prejudices and speak of facts. Tell me whether or not the objective of stability that it brings meets the first transitional provision of the Stability Act; tell me. Tell me, Minister, whether the Autonomous Communities have participated in the increases in VAT and excise revenues; tell me. Minister, have transfers in dependence or active employment policy programmes been reduced?Tell me. Minister, are the financing payments going down for the autonomous communities? Minister, has the funding model been revised or is it preferred to be extraordinarily funded? Do you believe that we cannot claim that its policy is re-centralisation or that we cannot claim that there is disloyalty with the autonomous communities? Furthermore, what brings us today, as we have already told you, is not satisfactory, Minister, with an unemployment rate of around 20% for 2016, as it means continuing to live with the consequences of the crisis, maintaining high rates of poverty and inequality, and insufficient measures are being taken to combat it. We need facts and not prejudices, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. For the Plural Left, Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, you have made a true display of the oldest of the fallacies, the fallacy of the straw man which, as you know perfectly well, consists in inventing the arguments of the adversary because by inventing them you get two things: first, to give an easy replica and, second, to reject the arguments of truth that we have given you that are supported by data. You're very old and very predictable. You're a straw man. In this I agree with you; this is not good or bad, this is not Jewish Christianity, this is Marxism - if I may say so - social interests and public policies. You have a model of society in which it is not a priority for the unemployed to have a benefit. Is that a free statement from me? No, you said it in July 2012 when you introduced Decree-Law 20/2012 and it is written: If we cut the benefits of the unemployed we will encourage your active search for employment, that is, if we subject them to the hunger pact so it will be easier to hire them at any price that is, in short, what you claim. It is written in the explanatory statement of Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, and I challenge you to dismiss me. Besides, you explained it, you won't forget me while I live. For you, it is not a priority for dependents to have access to benefits that they have recognized by law but that they cannot exercise. For you, it is not a priority for children's centres at risk of social exclusion to be able to care for people and thus those people are abandoned on the street. For you it is not a priority for the mentally ill and their families not to be left to their fate. Is it a problem for you to be wicked, to be evil? No, it is a problem of interests, because you have a model of society of the minimum state, of a minimum state in social and maximum in authoritarian and centralizing. It is also a problem for something very obvious and that Marx explained - forgive me to quote it, but it is that now everyone quotes Lenin to Gramsci and Marx -: Do you remember that material conditions make consciousness? Well, their material conditions, those of the vast majority, I do not say of all, of the representatives of the People's Party do not have those needs because these are for those for whom you govern, for people who can access supplementary pensions, health systems or care benefits in situations of need that can be paid; and they can do so because you have previously lowered the tax burden by diverting what could be public policies from system privatization. So clear. It is not a problem of good and bad, it is a problem of social interests represented politically by you. It has made me a political place, but personal, in relation to the situation of the health system and I will try to answer it. You, with the cutting of public spending and the asphyxiation of the autonomous communities, which are responsible for the provision of these services, are forcing a situation of collapse in the health system of this country, with unsustainable waiting lists that, in the end, can be skipped those that can be paid for a complementary health system. That's what they want in the fund, just as the governor of the Banco de España is doing when he recommends that people hire private pension systems because who knows if the public system will be able to function or not. You have contributed to the degradation of health care in this country which, fortunately, endures, it is true, with great dignity thanks to health professionals. Any emergency service in this country, any waiting list situation is to be ashamed of itself and that is not only your responsibility, it is true, but you have contributed to that reality of collapse of the health system, as you have done with regard to the breach of your dependency obligations. I know you don't like it. You said the policy is to make decisions and it has opportunity costs; no doubt, but you again cheat because for you the opportunity costs are: what you don't spend: it never is: how I can improve income. Your opportunity cost is that you maintain a real effective corporate tax rate that is far below, far below, the rate that pays the average of employees in this country. You're not the only ones, I know, but you're the ones in the government right now. You maintain a dual system of personal income tax, yes dual - which Solbes invented in 1993, it is true - but you do keep it over and above capital tax to the detriment of labour taxation. You allow the Sicav to continue to be fraudulently used by certain families in this country by economic elites and by subtracting income from the system. You maintain a cadaveric tax system that earns 8% less income than the EU average, i.e. 80 billion revenue each year. That's your opportunity cost. In that regard, you are taking action in the name of economic liberalism. I have told you many times: you are class interventionists, that is, you use the power of the state to prevail over certain social groups to the detriment of others. In that debate that you are trying to hold with us - I am indifferent that it is uneven in terms of time because when there are no arguments even with little time it is sufficient - you have not answered any of the approaches that we have made to you, for example, whether or not it is true that the contribution income from this year to May has risen by only 0.94%, which is what was foreseen as a result of your policies, because job insecurity, part-time contracts and temporary contracts are more contributors and less contribution income, which results in you suffocating public pensions in this country. They are charging, they are eating the Reserve Fund that was intended for that purpose, but not under those conditions, while, for example, they approve certain social security contribution exemptions, which are not bonuses paid by the Public Employment Service, but are flat rates that no one pays and that pensioners have to pay to the detriment of their pensions. That's, unfortunately, what you're not willing to answer...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u104	Mr. Coscubiela, I'm sorry, but you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u105	I'm done. ... as you are also not willing to answer if it is true or not what I have told you about today in Spain there are 355,000 full-time jobs less than in the first quarter of 2012, which would have to have some responsibility, as you are also not willing to answer each and every one of the data I have given you. Its spending ceiling approach is unrealistic, cheating, centralizing and generating more inequalities. I end with an argument. You say: employment equal to leaving poverty.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u106	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u107	That was the case before you came to the government, because today - I do not say it, analysts and scholars say it - in Spain the situation of the poor worker, who works for forty hours, has been imposed in a general way...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u108	Mr Coscubala, you have finished your speech. See you later. [[Risa.- Mr Coscubiela Conesa utters words that are not perceived]] I am sorry, I understand that you want to argue because you have been given a lot of arguments, but that is what the Rules of Procedure are when the minister intervenes and when the groups intervene. [[Applauds]] Mr Calduch, of the Progressive Union and Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I also read Samuelson and discovered with the time he deceived me, because the dilemma is not cannons or butter, because if it were just that dilemma, it would be a political decision. Economic theory is because it takes cannons and butter, both, but Samuelson didn't say that. I mean, I doubt economists already from the beginning because I was fooled by some Nobel prizes. The intervention that I have had meant basically the following, and perhaps it did not express me well. What concerns our parliamentary group is that deficit and debt forecasts will be made - because the role bears everything - in line with what has been committed to the European Union. Because it is they who supervise us beforehand to approve it here in the House - because then, since the macroeconomic bases on which they are based may not be solid and we happen what has already happened to us in the previous legislature. Do you remember the green shoots? For the green outbreaks led us to the fact that, as reality did not conform to the macroeconomic forecasts that were made, they were then hacked; they were hacked by the previous Government and by the latter. That is what concerns our parliamentary group. And since we are in the political debate, what I wanted to highlight was that, even coinciding with the need for these deficit and debt adjustments, we have nothing clear that the bases on which that is based will be fulfilled, as they have committed themselves here. Our group shares the idea that in the debate of the autonomous deficit not all the autonomous communities are in the same conditions; there are some that have met and others that have not, according to the data that I have, published by the ministry that you preside, you indicate that by 2014 Extremadura, Basque Country, Balearic Islands and Catalonia did not meet the limits of spending, and that Aragon, Castile and León, Catalonia and La Rioja did not meet the limits of debt. Then the generic debate of the autonomous communities we share, what we put in his face is that in the forecast for 2016 we do not see why we have to trust that, as you point out, the autonomous communities will stick to the limit that you put on them if the trajectory that we have systematically detected year after year is that they do not meet it. That is the substance of the matter, that is the substance of our objection. Our objection is not to question the amounts you indicate, it is to question the bases of analysis on which you base forecasts. Because then when the government on duty is wrong, do you know who pays it? The citizen pays for it, and we want to defend the Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Minister, do you want to answer anything?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u111	Yeah, I'll do it from the seat to make up for the previous intervention. It's just that the political debate... Now, if I may, I want to say that the political debate is obviously the reaffirmation not only of ideas but of prejudices, and you will understand that it is not that each one sets out his or her ideas, it is that he or she sits in his or her prejudices. [[Mr Coscubiela Conesa utters words that are not perceived]] A debate like this afternoon also has the virtue that it should be based on figures and on what has been raised with regard to the financial endowment of autonomous communities and local corporations. The answer is quite simple; we are talking about that by next year - as I already had the opportunity to say in my initial speech - the allocation of advances to the autonomous communities will grow by 8%. I've told you before and you're still doubting it. They will say what they want, but there is a settlement in 2013, which will be disbursed at the end of July and the beginning of August to the autonomous communities, of an additional 1.7 billion euros. You'll say, "Well, we don't see them. Ask the cashier of the state that makes the disbursement. I'm sure their autonomous communities are receiving them. It is therefore a debate that some of you need to update. It is true that when VAT is raised, to understand us, it does not go directly, according to the autonomous financing system, but it does go next. Once it has been incorporated into the tax declaration mass, the relevant settlement is made. That is what explains these flows and therefore that security and reliability that will make the achievement of deficit targets easier and more accessible. But what is it for some of you? Well, keep making mistakes. Don't, don't, don't, don't make me get off the donkey! But it's not a donkey, it's a number. It's not the donkey, it's the table of figures, of targets. Who's down there? The General Administration of the State, in the proposal made by the Government, or the Autonomous Communities? Several of you have settled in this speech, saying: No, I don't want to, I'm not willing to read the figures. Okay, okay, but read them and then keep the argument and not the other way around. I understand that we are not used to recognition, but certainly after a legislature like this I would ask for identification, not recognition anymore. If we have issued public debt, worth almost 100 billion euros, which has gone to the territorial administrations, which has gone to finance public services, we have done so as a country. Do not award any merit to the Government, but acknowledge that this country has done this. Today it has this public debt issued to finance the public services of our territorial administrations, in addition to the public debt issued to finance the deficit of all. We have therefore made an extra, which in turn means that budgetary policy has not exercised the classic restriction it should have exercised in order to reduce from a public deficit of 9% to a public deficit of 5.7% last year, 2014. That has to do with those debt movements that have gone to finance public services. If you stand up and tell me again that you don't care and that what you see is that public services are underfunded because here people rule that what they want is to close them, there you do, but who rules is people who have financed public services because the figures are there and those figures are irrevocable. This current political debate has nothing to do with Lenin or Gramsci, not even with Samuelson. You won't have convinced Samuelson. Well, look at the Nobel prizes that were out there predicting at the time that Spain was going to have a corralito and they were wrong. Why were you wrong if you're so insignia in your knowledge? Well, they were wrong because that's why we do politics, to beat the predictions, to win the predictions. What the Government brings here is not a bet of reliable scenarios in terms of economic forecasting derived from sophisticated economic models; no. What it brings is a bet of reliable scenarios if economic and budgetary policies like those proposed by the Government are made. If others are made, I am the first one to say that this is not going to be fulfilled. I've said it before from the rostrum. That is the political debate that belongs to us each and it is my duty to do so also as a government and to tell society that we will not have a scenario of growth and job creation if we change policy, because this is the policy that has allowed us to recover and grow. From there, of course, dialogue, negotiation and assumption of responsibilities. We have sought dialogue from the very beginning. I myself, when I put forward in this House the proposal for the Organic Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability, intended that dialogue with all political groups. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I intended and sought it, but some of you from various political groups were not for this. But if even the secretary general of the Socialist Party renounces article 135 of the Constitution, because it is not carried. What do you want, which are the alternative of government? Of course, in a democracy they are important, but what do they want? You want more deficit target? Is that what you want? I just don't understand them and I don't even hear an alternative budget economic policy proposal or an objective policy anymore. What do you want? More spending? Do we fund it? Then there are those who complain about the government's policy of reducing taxes, which is the next point. I understood them very well. Here there are political groups who want the government not to lower taxes, and now we will address it at the next point. All right, that's an option, but the government is about to lower taxes as a way to return the sacrifice to citizens and as a way to ensure the sufficiency of public service funding, because that brings more growth and more employment. If other leftist groups want to raise social contributions, there they are. We want flat rate like the one we have applied. We want the first EUR 500 of the contribution base to be exempt for those who hire stable employment and to promote economic growth. That the left in this country wants to raise taxes? We will see the proposal really when they arrive and dominate from a left-wing spectrum. We've seen her for a long time in this country. The Government's obligation is to bring this proposal to you. I have not convinced much, but I insist that the proposal is well founded on figures and data that are behind people's well-being, their economic capacity, their employment opportunities, equal opportunities, public services for our young people, education, health, social benefits and the coverage of equal opportunities in a well-coherent society. This is a government that works for growth and employment and for us to have an efficient public administration capable of providing us with public services that, in addition to the welfare state, are defence, external representation, citizen security and the administration of justice. They are elements that make up and shape a modern state in a highly decentralized country politically and administratively as is our State of Autonomy. Thank you, Mr. President. We had not yet finished the point, because the position of the People's Parliamentary Group is missing, but I understand that the task of the Government is also to discuss with those groups that have opposed and were sure that they would oppose one more afternoon, at the end of the parliamentary term, the draft General Budgets of the State which very soon, at the beginning of August, I will have the honour to bring back to this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. Let us now give the People's Parliamentary Group the opportunity to express its position through Mr Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by telling Mr Coscubiela that the X-ray that he makes of Spanish health will not say that it is false, as you often say from the rostrum, but I can tell him that it is not that of my Autonomous Community, Galicia. If it is yours, Catalonia, please ask the Government of Catalonia for an explanation, because you might prefer to spend money on embassies rather than on health. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to me to set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the agreement setting the budgetary stability target for the public sector as a whole and the non-financial expenditure ceiling for the 2016 state budget, which is set at EUR 123,394 million. The first thing I have to say is that for my group the government's forecasts are prudent and realistic, and with their implementation, as we have been doing year after year, we will once again convey a message of confidence to our European partners and to international investors. That is why we pay less interest on the debt, and not, Mr Rangel, for the European Central Bank's action, because it is no less true that the European Central Bank acted during 2010 and 2011 by buying bonds and we had the risk premium, or did you leave it to us, above the 400 basis points? Today we have it in 120. It is because of the trust in this government of Spain that we pay less interest on the debt. With today's debate we began the processing of the 2016 General State Budgets, the fifth budget we discussed in these three and a half years. You will remember that we had to approve the 2012 budget, as the former socialist government left without daring to present it to this House, without daring to present it to the Spanish. These five budget debates serve as a true X-ray of what has happened in Spain in these forty-two months. The first novelty is that, precisely, we are holding this debate, that of the spending ceiling of the public sector, a debate that the Socialist Party suppressed in order to be able to spend without measure, regardless of what the revenues were; a real nonsense that has been the beginning of many of the evils that left us when they left the government. How different the situation is today from that of past times. What a difference with 2009, when the socialist government spent nothing less than EUR 120 billion more than what it had entered. What a difference with 2011, when, after deceiving everyone until the last day, we were left in inheritance to the Spaniards one of the most crowded holes in Europe's public accounts, with a deviation from the target of the public deficit of almost 3 points of GDP, more than 50% of what the socialist government committed, a total of 90 billion euros that we have had to pay. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the efforts of the Spanish and the reforms undertaken by the Government, we have been able to correct the imbalances that prevented growth and job creation, and we have done so without any support in this House. Alone in this House, it is true, but very well accompanied by the whole of Spanish society, which has known with its effort and sacrifice to show the world what we are capable of when things are done well. With the exception of public debt, which is very important, and that is why I will stop later in it, there is no economic indicator that has not improved significantly in this legislature, some spectacularly. Since January 2012, a positive change is taking place in Spain, a change to better. All the indicators, all the figures, that's what they believe. As much as you twist them or torture them, in the words of The Economist, the numbers reflect an undeniable reality, which makes all the forums and the international press, as much as you weigh, speak of the Spanish miracle and set our country as an example of rapid recovery from a crisis. [[Applauds]] The change is the improvement of the public deficit, that is to say, what we spend too much on the income. We have been able to reduce it to far less than half of what the Socialist Government left us by an adjustment of EUR 50 billion, despite the fact that the first two years were in full recession. Change is also credited by economic growth. For the second year in a row, our economy is growing - it really has been doing so since the second half of 2013 - and it is doing so with strength; this year it will do so by 3.3%, a prudent estimate by the government. This, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be denied, because we are currently growing at a rate of 4% annually; an estimate, that of annual growth of 3.3%, in line with the forecasts of all national and international analysts. All, on a constant basis, have been improving their growth predictions for Spain. The International Monetary Fund has done so up to three times since April. We have passed in two and a half years from a deep recession to significant growth, a growth that has not been seen in Spain since 2007, a growth that is not sustained, as some spokespersons maintain, in exogenous factors: the price of oil, the actions of the European Central Bank or the contribution of the euro. These factors, being important, which are important, benefit all the countries of the euro area, and Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is the country that grows the most and creates the most jobs; it does so now and will do so in the near future. Why will Spain grow more than twice as much as France and five times as Italy? What is the difference between Spain and the rest? The answer, in my view, is the effort of the Spanish along with the structural reforms, and the results say that this Government was right in implementing those reforms. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be told about electoralism those who carry the entire legislature hidden, those who said they did not see the crisis that was clearly hitting us, but that they did see green outbreaks or, in Mr Rangel's words today, life in color when we grew absolutely nothing and did not create employment. Now, after eight quarters of growth, after twenty-one months of creating jobs, after twenty-one months of being more competitive than Germany, they also refuse to see the recovery. I began by saying that there has been a change, a change that has also been shown in employment, the great objective of this Government and of my parliamentary group. We have moved from destroying jobs in 2011 at a rate of 8% to being able to create one million jobs in two years; more than 600,000 will be created this year 2015. This is a figure behind which there are many people, ladies and gentlemen. We're not talking about macroeconomics. There are people, many families who already perceive this transformation. This is a change and they will not be able to deny it: an unemployment rate that has been decreasing since 2013 and that will end in 2015 with half a million jobs more than at the beginning of the legislature. However, my group cannot be satisfied; the unemployment figures are still high, so there can be no least triumphalism. However, what we do not admit is no lesson from the champions of job destruction. [[Applauds]] We do not admit any lessons from those who sent 3 and a half million Spaniards to unemployment between 2008 and 2011, and that when they are in opposition it turns out that they have many magical recipes to create jobs, recipes that nobody knows and that when they rule they do not put into practice. Now they're talking about inequality, ladies and gentlemen, but they used to keep quiet. We all know that there is no greater inequality than that between those who have jobs and those who are unemployed. That's inequality. By the way, I'll give you some data that you deliberately obviate. Spain was the OECD country where inequality grew the most between 2007 and 2011, and you were ruling; and as the indicators of poverty and child poverty were rising, the Socialist Government was not taking any action, having completed the last National Action Plan for Social Inclusion in 2010 and leaving in 2011 the social entities that work most in this area with subsidies and unpaid agreements, which we, the People's Party, had to pay. Another point that I particularly want to highlight is that currently in Spain 76% of workers have an indefinite contract, when in 2011 they were only 74%. In addition, full-time indefinite contracts grow at a rate of more than 18% on an annual basis. Therefore, gradually, as the economic recovery consolidates and accelerates, it also improves the quality of employment. We can say that step by step we are reducing inequality, whose origin lies in the government of the socialist era. He previously said that, except for public debt, all indicators are positive, very positive. This is true of exports, which are in historical volumes in terms of their size and the number of exporting companies. It is the imports, especially of equipment, that advance greater production for our industry. So are the house sales and construction, a market that reactivates after seven years of constant falls. These are motor vehicle sales, consumer and investor confidence indices, retail sales, large areas, etc. This is also true of business start-ups and RETA membership figures. Tax collection figures are also the same. For example, I will tell you that corporate tax collection for large companies is now more than twice as much as when the Socialist Party ruled; more than twice. It can be said that with the PSOE large companies almost did not pay taxes. That's the reality they left us. That is the real reality. In short, it is a growth of employment and our economy based on solid pillars, both in the external market and in domestic consumption, private consumption, that of Spanish households, which is driven by the tax cuts approved this year 2015 and which will increase disposable income in a sensitive way to all families. I will not be denied that a EUR 9 billion reduction from the IRPF is an important reduction. These tax cuts, such as those of the light, approved last Friday, or the new IRPF rebate - and already two this year - that will benefit four out of five Spaniards, will benefit everyone, especially the low and middle incomes, who pay less IRPF than at the beginning of the legislature. I stop now to talk about public debt. Our debt is very high and at the end of the year it will be 98.9%; it is a high figure but, on the other hand, in line with the European average. I now recall the interventions of the spokespersons of other opposition groups, when they announced in 2013 that more than 100 per cent of the public debt/GDP ratio would be exceeded. That is their credibility in these matters. It is also true that debt has grown greatly during this long crisis. From 2008 to 2011 it grew 30 points and this legislature will also do so to a lesser extent. The difference is that in the early years of the crisis this greater indebtedness served absolutely nothing. As an example, I remember Zapatero's PlanE, the wonderful plan of the PSOE, whose balance was 15 billion public debt and zero jobs created, or the 30 billion injected by the socialists to the Spanish bank and which did not provide any solution to the problem of the financial system. I repeat that the public debt has grown a lot over these years and I will tell you why it has done so in this legislature; the minister has already said so and therefore I will not stop much in it. It has grown because of the inherited deficit, 90 billion; because of the need to pay what you left unpaid and because of the welfare state financing systems of some autonomous communities; because of the electricity tariff deficit and also because of solidarity with other European Union countries that had to be rescued. I would like you to point out to us which of those games you would have stopped paying. The bills, maybe? They already did, and that's why we had to pay them ourselves. Tell us which ones we stop paying: health, education, social services.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u114	Mr. Olano, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u115	I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government presents a macroeconomic picture that indicates that public sector indebtedness will start to decline in 2016 and that it will continue to do so in 2017 and 2018 on a more serious basis. The reality is, therefore, that as long as we do not listen to your proposals for spending and increasing the deficit, that is, as long as we do not go back to the policies of the left, the debt will be reduced. We have gone from massive job destruction to being able to create 860,000 jobs today in two years, with the real and certain goal of reaching the 20 million workers in 2019 if we do not deviate from the policies followed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u117	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 9/2015 of 10 July 2015 of urgent measures to reduce the tax burden borne by taxpayers of personal income tax and other economic measures. This royal decree will be presented on behalf of the Government by the Minister of Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is bringing to the Congress of Deputies this afternoon for validation a royal decree-law of urgent measures to reduce the tax burden borne by taxpayers of the personal income tax and other economic measures. Tax policy has been one of the key instruments used by the Government in its fight against the economic crisis that has been affecting Spain for seven years. It has been an instrument that has allowed us in successive stages to recover, first and foremost, the level of public revenue. [[The lady]] It has allowed us to fight the excess of family debt and above all business debt, it has allowed us to sustain social spending, it has allowed us to stimulate entrepreneurship, it has allowed us to compensate for the sacrifices of citizens, it has allowed us to encourage consumption, it has allowed us to act with equity and social justice both in the sharing of the burdens of the crisis and in the return of efforts when we are beginning this recovery and it has also allowed us to deepen in the new scenario before us, a positive, hopeful scenario of economic growth and job creation. With fiscal policy it is very difficult to conceal the truth, firstly, because all citizens participate in it, we all pay taxes, and secondly, because the results are transparent and can be easily contrasted, so they can rarely be questioned in a truthful way. Ladies and gentlemen, months before the content of the tax reform that came into force last January was known, we have already heard in the debates in this House the slogan - it cannot be called otherwise - which tried to discredit it and since then we have not stopped hearing it. They are slogans with argumentative simplicity, born from the topics, which have not stopped repeating that fiscal policy, which came into force in 2015, tax reform, benefits the richest and harms middle and low incomes. As I cannot accept this approach, as I would like no doubt about it, I will devote a couple of strokes to explaining what policy has harmed people with fewer resources, as they say, and what policy this Government has done to the contrary. In the past in Spain a fiscal policy was made that allowed large companies to pay little taxes. In fact, in 2011 the effective rate on the positive accounting result of the large consolidated groups in Spain was 3,8 %, which made several of the large IBEX companies paying in Spain - because they are taxable in Spain - do so at zero effective rate in corporate tax. That was the case with a socialist government and with parliamentary support in this House. In the past, in Spain, a fiscal policy was made that led to the loss of €70 billion in collection in two years, money that should have gone to sustain the welfare state, but that instead triggered our public deficit and that of course, as we had occasion to denounce in this very House, is one of the causes of the loss of 3,400,000 jobs, jobs that were lost much more within the families of people with middle and low incomes. In the past, Spain had a fiscal policy in which the most modest savings taxed the same as the large returns of capital, however high they were. In the past, Spain did not want to combat the crisis by raising taxes or higher incomes or businesses with greater economic capacity. In Spain of the previous legislature the socialist government did nothing with the fiscal policy that served to fight the crisis and inequality and everything that it did only served to impoverish the citizens, who are the taxpayers. Instead, in these years our fiscal policy has fought the crisis and the loss of tax revenues, rising from the first day of the legislature the minimum rate of IRPF 0.75 and 7 points - almost ten times more - the maximum rate, which only affects the higher incomes. Our tax policy has raised taxes on large companies - here is the collection from large companies - so that they are the ones who have the most money to get out of the crisis, and they are contributing very effectively to getting out of it. In that July 2012 I had to defend the rise of VAT and did so at a crucial time for Spain. We did so by preserving the VAT of products of the super-reduced type to 4% and keeping in reduced rates practically the entire shopping basket, in addition to the essential services for the operation of the country such as tourists and transport services. So that tax increase, that share of the tax burden of 2012 was effective because we asked more from those who had more economic capacity - more effort to the higher incomes - and from the big companies, although we already said that we were going to propose those tax surcharges on a temporary basis. In addition, we have strongly promoted the fight against fraud, because there is nothing more harmful and unjust for fairness than not paying the taxes that belong to each one, and the result of that impulse we have managed to break the record of collection. Each year the Tax Agency has been collecting in the fight against fraud the equivalent of more than one percentage point of gross domestic product in Spain. In 2014 the largest collection in history was obtained, with 12,318 million euros, and the results of the first half of this year constitute the best start of an exercise: more than 6.5 billion collections, 20% more than in the first half of last year. In these three and a half years of the legislature, more than €40 billion has already been raised, around €5 billion more than in the previous four years. To this is added the collection, the accumulation of new tax information data on goods and rights abroad that have Spanish taxpayers. This new tax information amounts to more than €124 billion - of which no information was available at the beginning of the legislature -, which, I insist, implies a tax information medium as never before had been held in the Spanish Treasury, in the Tax Agency, on the value of goods and rights abroad. On the other hand, when we managed to implement economic recovery, we did a tax reform thinking above all of those sectors that had had to overcome the greatest difficulties due to the economic crisis - middle and low income sectors, families with children and people in charge of other persons with disabilities, whether ascendants or descendants -, thinking about helping companies create jobs, especially small and medium-sized and self-employed, and also thinking about stimulating economic growth to boost job creation. It has been a tax reform that distributes tax benefits equally equitably, so that average and low incomes are more beneficial, which, moreover, represent a very large majority of Spanish taxpayers. The numbers are very eloquent. With the new IRPF, 1,600,000 people stop paying this tax; even almost half, 750,000, who earn less than 12,000 euros a year, have stopped having payroll retentions since last January and have earned their full salary since the first day of the year. Definitively, the reduction in the IRPF is an obvious example of the progressive nature of tax reform. That is why, now that the economic situation allows us to lower taxes again, we have decided to advance the second part of the IRPF rebate, which was due to enter into force next January 2016, to the current July 2015. The new law of the IRPF is much more equitable, much fairer than that which we inherited from the previous legislature because it poses a lower tax requirement for middle and low incomes. In the previous legislature the minimum rate in the IRPF was 24%; our tax reform significantly lowers it. Since January it has been at 20%, and now, with the new intermediate rate, we have lowered it half more, and in January 2016 it will remain at 19%. Instead, we are not going to lower the maximum rate on what was already in the previous legislature. With the Socialist Party it was 45%; we took it for three years to 52%, realizing that it was the highest incomes that had to make the greatest contribution to facilitate economic recovery. From this month, from July, and with the entry into force of this decree-law, it will remain at 46 % and until January of next year it will not return to 45 %. The same applies to the savings rate. Compared to the 21 % rate set by the previous government in 2011 for all returns above EUR 6,000, the current government has introduced three tranches, with higher taxation for higher and lower returns for lower savings. At the end of the reform, the savings rate of up to €6,000 will be 19% and will reach 21% for returns between €6,000 and €50,000, and from that amount they will tax 23%, 5 points more than the tax reform of the Socialist Party's 2006 government, in which, in addition to the exemption of the first €1,500 dividends, all returns, however high, would tax 18%. Returning to the IRPF, if the average final reduction of the reform for all taxpayers will be 12,5 %, for a large majority it is in practice double. We must bear in mind that 72% of the declarants, no less than 14 million taxpayers, declare annual incomes below EUR 24,000. Where applicable, the average final reduction shall be 23,47 %. Moreover, declarants with incomes below EUR 18,000 - 12 million taxpayers, i.e. 58% of the total - will have an average discount of 31% -31.06% exactly -. Now, once the second phase of the reduction in the IRPF comes into effect, all middle-income and low-income taxpayers will pay less in their IRPF than at the beginning of the legislature. This is possible because during these years we have made it easier for us to get out of the economic crisis, because our economic reforms and our budgetary policy have led us to be at the head of the big countries of the European Union in growth and job creation and with better prospects than the rest of the countries of the European Union, even better than the countries that started a few years ago from an incomparably better situation than ours. In addition, we have improved the minimum family sizes that had been frozen for six years and have introduced aid to large families, single parents with two children and those who are in charge of persons with disabilities - that is the great novelty - of EUR 1,200 per year for each of the situations covered by the law. That is to say, we have not only supported the welfare state in these years despite the recession by maintaining the social spending of all public administrations at 27.5 % of GDP, but we have promoted fiscal equity, we have curbed inequality and we are promoting new aid to groups that need greater state support. Because really the policy of supporting these groups not only has to read it in the lines of public expenditure, which are essential, but in the tax incentives contained in rules such as the one we are submitting today to the House for consideration. For the self-employed, who also benefit from the IRPF rebate, we propose that the retention rate be reduced from this month to 15%. Initially the reform envisaged that the retention would remain at 19% this year and fall to 18% next year, but the economic situation today allows us to go further, makes it easier for us to lower those retentions that are similar to those already held by professionals who declare incomes below 15,000 euros. I believe that I agree with all your ladies and gentlemen that the role of the self-employed, their effort, their sacrifice has been fundamental during the crisis and is being even more key at this stage of economic recovery. That is why we now not only compensate you for the IRPF rebate, but we also lower your retentions so that you can better meet your professional needs and strengthen your business and activity. This is a measure affecting about 800,000 self-employed people, which will stimulate their economic activity and restore the type of retention to the levels that existed in 2011. In addition, the new self-employed, who are now starting their business, will have lower retentions during the first three years, 7% which will certainly help them to start up their businesses with a little less economic effort. On the other hand, among the tax measures with a social component that includes this royal decree-law, is the establishment of new exemptions for certain aids. Thus, public aid granted by autonomous communities or local authorities to meet basic needs up to a maximum of 1.5 times the public multi-effect income indicator is declared tax-free. In addition, the possibility of an embargo on benefits and aid granted by the various public administrations for basic needs is limited. Aid and assistance to victims of violent crimes and against sexual freedom and, in particular, to victims of gender-based violence are hereby declared exempt. Finally, aid granted to communities of neighbours for resettlement will also be exempted. Ladies and gentlemen, we can now tackle these tax cuts. We could not, much less at the beginning of the legislature, implement the fiscal policy we had hoped for; we were in economic recession. But the fiscal policy that we put into practice, as is now shown again in figures, was the right one for that situation. Today we can say that thanks to that fiscal policy we can now lower taxes and thanks to that fiscal policy and the effort that we have made - I insist, equitable and balanced - the economic situation in our country is changing and is doing so clearly for the better. There are many moments in the activity of a government, and in the decisions of a finance minister, in which it has to take measures that are not really what it would like but which require the country's situation, and the country's priority is certainly what matters. Therefore, if this is the case, as we are now seeing, the fruits are those that today allow us to go up to this rostrum and ask for the validation of a new tax reduction for all Spaniards and, especially, for those with less economic capacity. When we approved the tax reform last year, the Government's forecasts were not what we saw in the previous point, they were not so favourable or so positive. That is why we decided that some of the major reforms and tax cuts should be done in two phases, the first in January 2015 and the second in January 2016. We said that we preferred to be cautious, as we have been throughout the whole legislature in the forecasts and in the measures adopted. We remain cautious, but the evolution of the economy has been more positive than the Government thought at the time and, therefore, the improvement of forecasts supports the proposal we are making now. I remember when we made the budgets we said that the economy was going to grow by 2% and now, this very afternoon, we have brought, without further debate, that the economy will grow to 3.4%. We have not seen much discussion this afternoon about this, it was not interesting, no one has come to question that we are going to grow at this rate, with this intensity. When we made the budget we thought that job creation in full-time equivalent jobs would be 1.4% but in the first quarter of 2015, according to quarterly national accounts data, it is growing at an annual rate of 2.8%, i.e. twice as much as foreseen in the budgets. This is not sharing working time, they are full-time equivalent jobs. These two data show us the positive effect of economic reforms and tax reforms on the economy in just two months since they entered into force. In addition, economic improvement is increasing tax collection. The aggregated tax bases of the main taxes accelerated their growth rate in the first quarter of 2015 to 4.2%, well above the 2.6% that grew in 2014, after six consecutive years of decline. On the other hand, tax revenues in homogeneous terms have grown from January to May at an annual rate of 3.7%, which means that we are entering above what is foreseen in the General State Budgets for 2015. This increase in income is particularly significant in corporate tax, where split payments grew by 25,8 % until May, no doubt due to the growth of profits declared in the first quarter. In addition, VAT collection increased by 9.9% until May and by 10.6% for SMEs. Even the revenues by IRPF grew in homogeneous terms by 0.1% despite the decrease we made in January 2015. I would like to remind you that this decrease in the first few months of this year reaches EUR 1.4 billion, which we have used to lower the IRPF, while the collection has not only not fallen but has risen, very slightly, but has risen. Thus, the economic situation not only allows us to advance the reduction of the IRPF and the retentions to the self-employed, but it is actually inviting us to do so. The economy is improving more and more and that is why we must take advantage of it to continue deepening the tax reduction, convinced that in this way we are stimulating economic growth and employment at a time of the year also very conducive to stimulate economic activity, domestic demand and, through a greater wage gain resulting from the tax reduction, to promote consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon's proposal, the proposal for a decree-law, involves injecting into the economy an additional EUR 1.5 billion to what we had already planned for this year. Thus, 20 million citizens and their families are going to notice this tax reduction from this very summer in their pockets as the retentions are going to go down again, as they did in January. In this way taxpayers will have more resources, more money for their spending decisions for what is left of the year. In order to implement this reduction, the Government has approved an interim fee that will apply to rents from January to December 2015 in place of the one expected at the beginning of the year. The same will happen with the savings rate as the discount planned for 2016 is also ahead of July 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, the royal decree I have the honour to defend before the House for its validation includes, in addition to this reduction in the income tax on natural persons, other measures, among which I would like to highlight the reduction in the bill of light due to the disappearance of the tariff deficit and the social measures for coal mining workers, both promoted by the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism. Thanks to the various measures contained in the energy sector reform approved by this Government, the chronic tariff deficit in the electricity system has been eliminated and there has even been a surplus in 2015. This results in a reduction in the depreciation of capital and interest which is to be transferred to the consumer by an average reduction of 2,1 % of the amount of his invoice between August and December. On the other hand, this Royal Decree-Law includes a number of social measures to strengthen social protection for miners, making it easier to pre-retirement and making it exceptionally easier for companies that are also in the process of advancing their mine-exploitation programme before the planned date to have their allowances paid. The measures that have been agreed between the Ministry of Industry and the most representative trade unions respond to a fall in the national production of coal, greater than expected, which foresees that from 2018 only workers who actually meet the working conditions in competitive companies and certainly also more clearly in what is known in the activity as open skies will be kept in the sector. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the final months of the legislature are showing us the results of the government's policies in these years. Tax measures, structural reforms and budgetary policy present us with a country that is growing steadily, whose economy is at the forefront of the growth of the most advanced countries, creating jobs at a higher rate than the average in the European Union and which therefore maintains growing and flourishing tax collection rates. The first half of 2015 is showing us that the good data from 2014 was the foreground of a recovery that has greater vigor than expected then - I speak of 2014, of what we all saw since 2014-, and invites us to continue moving along the path that will definitely lead us to overcoming the crisis. To put an end to the high unemployment rates that have arisen throughout this phase of crisis has been the most important objective of government policy; it has been the objective to which all the efforts made in these years have been directed and which are now beginning to bear fruit in the form of new employment, entrepreneurship and tax cuts. The reduction of the IRPF has shown, in this first half of the year, that it has been a valuable and effective tool to compensate people with low and middle incomes, especially for the efforts made these years, and to stimulate their economic activity, consumption and with it, the economy and employment. That is why the Government proposes to move forward with the second phase of the reduction of this tax and in doing so consolidates a policy of lower fiscal demands at this stage of economic recovery, which will have to have continuity in the coming months in order to benefit the citizens and the entire economic activity of our country. This is the purpose that encourages me to request on behalf of the Government the validation of this royal decree-law to the House. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u119	Thank you, Minister. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and, on his behalf, Mr Saura have called for the use of the turn against this royal decree.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are before a decree-law that I would call a mitin, an ideological decree-law; they choose one or the other, but both are ways of simplifying, of explaining before which decree-law we are: before a decree-law mitin or also before an ideological decree-law. Mr Montoro, of course the fiscal policy of the previous government is not the same as the fiscal policy of this government!, of course it is not the same, Mr Montoro!, how is it going to be the same? This government, on the revenue side, has increased VAT more than the previous one; indirect taxes, more than the previous one; it has raised co-payments, IBI, public prices, fees, university tuition, more than the previous one - as far as its government is concerned, EUR 21 billion -. In addition, it has approved a fiscal amnesty to welcome senior leaders of the People's Party; that, I repeat, on the revenue side. On the expenditure side, it is a Government that has ended the Unit Act, a Government that has halved the Social Security Reserve Fund, a Government that makes only one in two unemployed persons eligible for unemployment insurance. It is a government that has reduced social spending by €15 billion. How is the fiscal policy of this government going to be the same as that of the previous government? No, this Government has made a much more regressive fiscal policy, a policy that increases inequality with respect to the previous Government; the fiscal policy of this Government is not the same as that of the previous one. Mr Montoro, I agree with you on one thing, only one thing: that is good, that the best thing for the economy is that citizens have more resources in their pockets; I totally agree with you. But the question I ask myself next, the key question is: in which pockets?, of whom?, for whom? This is the key question. Of course I do, that's crucial. As the International Monetary Fund says: when on total income the weight of the richest 20% increases, in the medium term the growth decreases, and when on a country's income the weight of the poorest 20% increases, in the medium term the country's growth is greater. This is what the International Monetary Fund says in its last report and what you do, Mr Montoro, is to take money from the pocket of middle and workers' incomes and pass it on to higher incomes and large corporations. That's what you do! A regressive policy that increases inequality! That's your fiscal policy, Mr. Montoro. You told me about corporation tax, let's talk about corporation tax. In 2007, the Socialist Government collected €44,823 million for corporate tax. Year 2013, the Government of the People's Party, 19,345 million euros. With all corporate tax reforms, 19,945 million, year 2013. And the economy, as the minister has told us, has grown in 2014. Will corporate tax collection have grown in 2014? Oh, ladies, no, no! Corporate tax decreases to EUR 18,715 million, with all this structural reform, less corporate tax resources. How is one government going to be the same as the other? A government that basically does at the end of the legislature is that when it has raised taxes to everyone, to average incomes, when it has cut spending by EUR 15 billion, when all this has happened, then it lowers taxes to the richest 1%. Mr Montoro, when he arrived at the government, he raised taxes and also the IRPF, and he also approved a temporary supplementary tax, which he also spoke about here this afternoon. When he explained to the Spaniards what it consisted of, he told them that 80% of the IRPF tax hike effort was carried by the richest 20%. That's what he said. He also said - I have here transparency, slide number 7 of the presentation - that the richest 1% took more at the cost of the rise than 17 million taxpayers who had less. Slide number seven. What's going on? That when the IRPF cuts now this transparency disappears, it is no longer in any presentation because that would mean telling the Spaniards that 1% is now saved more than 14 million taxpayers who have less income, and that cannot be said to the Spaniards. That can't be said! This is the transparency number 7 that he repeated in one and the other presentation, but now that transparency has disappeared. [[Show her.]] Why is he missing? Because the serious thing is not that it has lowered taxes to 1%, the serious thing is that it has lowered taxes to 1%, but it has raised taxes to the whole world, especially to middle incomes and workers and it has cut on the expenditure side, as I say, 15 billion euros - of course, that transparency cannot teach it! - and that is why your fiscal policy, Mr Montoro, is regressive. You are going to go into the history of the Spanish Public Finance for two things: for the tax amnesty that you approved so that your friends could welcome it and for the most regressive fiscal policy in our country's democratic history. For those two reasons you're going to history, Mr. Montoro! For those two reasons! [[Applauds]] Of course I do. And this royal decree is part of your fiscal policy. I insist, when I say that this government has raised taxes to the Spaniards by 21 billion euros, I speak only of this government, but it is that the citizens know that in autonomous communities, the majority governed by the People's Party so far, all taxes have risen, all of them, and have gone up, for example, all that has to do with social policy, co-payments and also university tuition. I mean, when you're now trying to buy votes for 5 euros, people don't believe it. Mr. Montoro, let's explain it again. It turns out that with this real decree the 1% will be saved 1,700 euros per capita and, on average, the 10 million taxpayers who earn less, per capita will be saved 5 euros. Of course, when an average Spanishman is told that VAT, IBI, co-payers, everything, says, "You're going to buy me my vote for 5 euros on average, Mr Montoro?" Of course, no one's going to buy you that bike. Nobody's going to buy it, because nobody believes it. Five euros per capita; that's the reality. You say the ones below are going to save 20% or 30%. Sure, five euros. The Spaniards do not live or buy with percentages, they buy with euros, and no one is going to buy this political bike, Mr Montoro. This royal decree continues and there is a second part which includes three measures related to the energy sector that once again demonstrate gross electoralism on the part of the Government and the erratic nature and poor future vision of energy policy. So much so that they re-amend the recently passed Electricity Law and that we have amended it in its entirety. These are three measures that I should like to comment on. The first one would call it non coduzas Montoro S.L. Soria and Montoro S.L, but traps of the Council of Ministers. He announces that he is going to lower the bill for the light, but that this discount is only until the elections pass and then goes up again. This is the first measure of this royal decree that has to do with the electricity sector. I am telling you that I am not talking about you, but about the traps of the Council of Ministers. The second one would call it selling smoke. They propose that at some point indeterminate the Government will re-change section 9 of the Electricity Act to facilitate self-consumption. There is a third measure, which is to promote the early retirement of workers from coal mining companies; with which we agree, Mr Montoro. This is the second part of the royal decree that you bring us here. But, back to the first one, I'll explain it to you in another way. The public administrations next year are going to cut in the order of €7 billion. The achievement of the deficit diversion targets will entail EUR 20 billion of adjustment and the cycle allows them additional revenues of EUR 15 billion. That is what the supplementary information you have sent us says, Mr Montoro; I do not know if you have read it to him, but I have read it to myself. Then, the adjustment of all administrations is 7 billion euros. How good it would have been for those who suffer the most from the cuts of the welfare state, which are middle income and workers, that their tax reform would not have been approved! Because its tax reform implies that next year there will be a loss of revenue of EUR 5.2 billion, as the bulk of the corporate tax reform and the remaining part of the IRPF comes into force. We have already explained earlier that the reform of the IRPF means that the richest 1% takes more than 14 million taxpayers. This I did not invent myself, but was in its transparency when I sold the kindnesses of the IRPF ascent when I arrived in the government. I don't make it up. He's there and you put him on the table. Then, the Spanish €5.2 billion could be saved in cuts. Therefore, Mr Montoro, of course we agree that citizens have more money in their pockets. Mr Montoro, the redistributive policy consists in the following: to have a progressive taxation so that the money reaches the public sector and does not stay in the public sector because it reaches the people's pocket. How? Through transfers, pensions, social policy and public investment. It's money that comes in the pocket, what happens is it goes out of the pocket of those who have the most in the pocket of those who have the least. That's redistributive policy. You tell us you're going to get into everyone's pocket, but it's not true: you take money out of the middle income pocket and the workers' pocket and that money goes to the higher income. Unemployment coverage was 70 % and next year will be around 50 %; i.e. one in two unemployed workers will not have unemployment coverage, but 1 % will have benefits of EUR 5.2 billion. That is, Mr Montoro, regressive; that is ideologically right-wing. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u121	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Are you going to intervene, Minister? Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u122	Thank you, Madam President. In conclusion, the Socialist Party opposes the lowering of taxes. [[Rumors]] In conclusion, the Socialist Party opposes the lowering of the price of light. In conclusion, the Socialist Party opposes the pre-retirement of coal mining. And he opposes for one reason: because he has opposed everything. Mr. Saura, go up with a record in which your constant, as Finance Spokesman in this case - although it doesn't matter if it was another Spokesman, as we have already seen in the first part of this afternoon - is to oppose everything. But if you are opposed to lowering taxes, if you are opposed to lowering the price of light and if you are opposed to miners being able to pre-rejubilate, it is going beyond what any script really requires. In addition, it does so with interesting approaches. It says: The International Monetary Fund conducts a study on inequality, in which it states that countries where there is less inequality are growing. Interesting conclusion. The International Monetary Fund itself has just reviewed the growth forecast for Spain and puts us at the forefront of growth in all developed countries. How do you reconcile that, if you criticize the government by saying that the only thing it has done is a policy of inequality? It'll be the other way around, won't it? Or is it that the Monetary Fund already raises a contradiction in its own terms? The contradiction is yours. The contradiction is that, whatever this Government does, it causes inequality. What is causing this government's policy is that we grow more than anyone else and that, fortunately, we are creating jobs, which is what we need most. That's what you won't recognize. All I had to do was recognize him in the last leg of the legislature, when we also have Mr Sánchez here as an adalid of political pacts with parties that what they are proposing is to raise taxes, which is exactly what we are currently living in the political situation in Spain. Here are those who want to raise taxes and those who are going beyond the political agenda with which we compete in the 2011 elections, because the figures for the drop in collection are not on the agenda that won the general elections. We have gone far beyond the political agenda because we now have an economic situation that allows us to collect more by lowering taxes, favoring that this taxation is in the hands of people. He then brought the tax collection figures for 2007, to pre-crisis, and referred to the state of corporate tax collection in 2007. Are you going to explain to me what the collection was in 2011? How much did the collection go down, not from 2007 to 2011, but, if you like, from 2007 to 2010, with the previous socialist government? How much did Vice President Salgado drop before the VAT went up? They lost €70 billion. Is that what the corporation tax lost? How much did the corporation tax lose in that drop in collection? How much did you lose? Compare the collection of corporation tax now with the one we had at the end of the previous mandate of the socialist government, mediating years of economic recession as we have had and thus recovering the contribution of the big companies of our country to that payment of corporation tax. Hasn't that happened either? Is it not true what I said about the fact that the effective tax rate of the large consolidated groups in 2011 was 3.3%, and that this contribution has now tripled? Isn't that right? That's not true? Isn't it true that when I got to the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration there were companies from IBEX that didn't pay taxes? Wasn't that true? [[Mr. Saura García pronounces words that are not perceived]] That wasn't true, that wasn't happening, that wasn't. It wasn't because you said it wasn't. Why don't you ask Mrs. Salgado? I suppose you'd have the same information the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has. Why don't you ask Mrs Salgado why she didn't change the tax rules and limit the deductibility of financial expenditure on the taxable basis of those companies? Why did it not limit the freedom of amortization, which had all investments made in the rest of the world amortized in the matrix in Spain? Why didn't Mrs. Salgado do that? Did a right-wing government have to come, as you say, to do this? Right girl! Yes, we did, we saw the situation and we did it naturally, and that makes a tax system more equitable. Ask yourself why they didn't. But let me go ahead with the company tax to demonstrate the regressivity of the measures we have taken! We are now going to the rise in taxes, the transitional surcharge on the income tax of natural persons. I've already explained it in the text. I had to make that decision because I had a hidden public deficit of 30 billion euros; 3 points of gross domestic product. Is that not true either? Was that deficit not to be defined in 2011 either? [[Rumors]] No, neither. Wasn't that enough? There was an outstanding commercial debt of €44 billion, which is what we have been talking about. Do you know what commercial debt is? Invoices from hospitals; bills from senior residences; bills from residences of persons with disabilities; education bills. That's the commercial debt, let's see if we get along. All that was unpaid. There were outstanding obligations in the Ministry of Defence, outstanding obligations in Development, outstanding obligations in the Environment; everything was unpaid. Of course, you take responsibility, but you explain it to the Spaniards. Isn't that true? Didn't it ever happen in this country? [[Rumors]] Isn't it true that all that was there? Because we have paid and we are still paying the consequences of all that delay. We raise taxes with the temporary surcharge on the income tax of individuals. I have already explained this in my speech; 0.75% for low income and 7 points for high income. Is it true that the increase in IRPF collection has come in 70% of high incomes or is it not true? Isn't that true, either? But it's the numbers! You deny the figures! Then, in each intervention it says: I have read the figures. Well, I don't know if you've read them because all of that is published. All memories of the Tax Agency are published in terms of the evolution of the box. And you say, "Yes, I read the figures. Well, the truth is, you go up to the rostrum and you don't notice. You use arguments that are contrary to the figures, Your Honor. It's not that he retorts them, it's that they're against the figures. And now, with this proposal from the government to the House, is it true or not that we are going to lower the actual types of income tax? Up to 12,000 euros of income, because the progressive is the journey of a scale - you really have to remember what is the income tax of the natural persons -, the difference of what remains in 2016-2011, which we are advancing in this decree-law, is 100 percent reduction. Up to EUR 15,000, 20% reduction in the actual tax rate. Up to 20,000 euros, 10.8% reduction. Up to €30,000, 4,6 % reduction on the actual tax rate. It's progressive. I'm reading the rate and I'm comparing the actual guys in a progressive. So we are reducing that progressive, so that the full returns of work from 150,000 do not have a reduction on the average rate they paid in 2011, but on the increase we made of the 7-point surcharge. I mean, we're reducing a lot, which is the figure you're claiming. He says: you're reducing those rents a lot about what they were paying in 2014. Sure. Did you support me raising the tax on those rents by 7 points or didn't? You don't remember what he did. Now that we're removing a surcharge that we already said was exceptional, instead of comparing me to the year 2011 tells me: lower the rents more to those they have the most economic capacity. It's not that you don't know the figure you're handling, it's that the misconception as you've been doing the whole legislature. Your Honor, I would like to say that tax equity is absolutely fundamental, the payment of taxes is absolutely fundamental. The extraordinary tax declaration and the consequences of the Anti-Fraud Act, Law 7/2012, which carried out the 720 declaration, have had an extraordinary effect in terms of tax information for the Tax Agency, there are 124 billion euros that we know today that exist and that we did not know at the beginning of the legislature, in a process in which many taxpayers have regularized, but you are committed to quoting only some who are not currently in the People's Party because they left it years ago. By the way, there is everything, there are union leaders, everything, as you well know, and it is public because it is all subject to even judicial proceedings. We are experiencing a circumstance that allows us to tell the Spaniards with great rigour that we are all paying taxes, the taxes that we have, something fundamental to implement all these tax policies, and that we are doing a really fair policy. We had to raise VAT, as your honor has recalled - I too have done - in July 2012, and I have already apologized many times publicly, but on that rise, as I explained earlier, we have also separated. We have not raised super-reduced VAT, we have kept it for all commodities and for certain cultural products. We have applied a reduced rate, in addition to others in the cultural sphere - as I explained earlier - to virtually the entire shopping basket that the Spanish make and to absolutely fundamental services, such as tourism and transport services. Therefore, we are facing a fair tax policy, obviously requiring tax collection to finance not only the correction of the public deficit, but primarily to social services, but the speech made by his lordship on behalf of the Socialist Group is not that it is unfair, it is not based on the figures, so it has no basis. What is clear in the turn against the decree-law proposed by the government this afternoon is that the Socialist Party is opposed to lowering taxes, and that has perhaps to do with the alliances that are drawing up in so many autonomous communities and in so many municipalities in Spain, where you are joining political forces throughout the country, that what you are clearly proposing is to raise taxes on citizens. We have drawn this path from the Government and I can tell you this afternoon that, as we have more economic growth and the resulting job creation, the project of a government like the current one is to continue lowering taxes, beyond the content of the very decree-law that we are dealing with this afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u123	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Montoro, you didn't get me right this afternoon because I think you're coming in line today in neuron mode. Mr Montoro, we agree to lower taxes on middle incomes and workers, but not to lower taxes on higher incomes and large corporations. [[Applauds]] Do I ever explain it to you again or do you not want to understand me this afternoon because you don't want to understand me? Secondly, Mr Montoro, your tax reform has nothing to do with the public deficit, it is a political decision, your decision and that of your Government, a political decision that has nothing to do with the public deficit. What you want is for the Spanish who have the most income to have 9 billion euros more in their pockets. That's what you want, that's the decision and that means that other Spaniards are going to have less resources because they have to have a balanced budget. It is easy to explain, that is, what you want is to lower corporate tax, lower taxes to the richest 1% because that is politically good for you, but it is also not economically the most efficient, has been explained by the International Monetary Fund. What I want to say is that it is a decision, but I could have made other decisions such as eliminating co-payments, lowering the enrolment of Spanish students at the university, rather than leaving the Social Security Reserve Fund in half as they are going to leave it, could provide it with more resources for pensioners in the future, or that the unemployed would have more resources for their unemployment insurance. But no, they've made the decision to lower taxes on the richest in the country, it's a political decision and you have to put up with that stick, Mr. Montoro. You create ideologically what you're thinking, you're going to lower taxes to higher incomes. And what the International Monetary Fund says to you - I will not charge you anything this afternoon, Mr Montoro, I will explain it to you - says that in the medium term it is much more efficient, which contributes more to growth when society is more just than when it is more unequal. But what the International Monetary Fund also says is that Spain is growing fundamentally above the European average for two reasons. Firstly, because there are positive external elements such as the European Central Bank, and secondly, because the Spanish crisis was more intense and we are still far from the peak of production in 2007 while the rest of the European economies are already at their peak level of production, Mr Montoro. But, in addition, what the International Monetary Fund says is that Spanish growth is based on weak foundations, that is, growth that in the medium term can be not so intense. The International Monetary Fund also says that it is non-integrative, non-inclusive growth and that it has not only social effects, but also from the point of view of the future growth of the Spanish economy. In fact, already the Banco de España says that for the second semester the growth of the Spanish economy is less than the growth of the Spanish economy for the first semester of the year, and also says the Banco de España that for next year the growth will be less than that of this year, Mr Montoro. What we say is: (a) there is growth; (b) it is not inclusive; (c) it does not sit on pillars of the future. That's what we're saying, Mr. Montoro. I explained it to him and, as I did so well, he understood me. We have discussed this on many occasions. The deficit you inherited was the deficit left you by the socialist government plus a hidden deficit. Yes, I recognize that: two thirds of that deficit has to do with the Autonomous Communities of the People's Party, Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]] It's perfectly quantified. That's the hidden deficit. Moreover, when they arrived at the government immediately they said what the deficit was; in December they already said what the deficit was in 2014. That's what they said. And it turns out that we have to get to the month of April to know the annual deficit of the Spanish economy. It seems to me very well to arrive in April to know the deficit of the Spanish economy, what I do not understand is how they already talked about that deficit hidden in December 2012. I'm done, Madam President. You understand me well, but I don't think you want to understand me. You make a political decision: lower taxes to those you most have, but in return...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u125	Mr. Saura, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u126	I'm done, Madam President. ... They are going to increase taxes even more and cuts to middle incomes. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u127	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Saura, you have made an argument without a single figure; you have made a bias statement without a single figure, because you do not have it. [[Rumors]] Then you assume you read them, but you don't completely know them. He has gone up with his refrain, to understand us already at this time of the afternoon, we are going to get a little magnificent. What the International Monetary Fund says is that Spain is going to grow more than the average of the developed countries of the world. Does the Monetary Fund say that or not? If we had that other problem, it would be impossible, it would tarnish that growth; ergo, if we grow up, it will be because we are doing something as a country. And you say: Growth is not sustainable. Why? Why does the People's Party rule? That's what you missed, because it's the only argument you've given. I explained to you this afternoon that there is an economic growth that for the first time in Spain is leading to employment, and you say that is not inclusive. That economic growth had never created such employment, and it insists that this is not inclusive. In addition, it is growth compatible with Spain's positive financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world for the first time in history, which is exactly what we need to meet our external debt, and, in your opinion, it is not sustainable. But why does he make that statement? He says: According to you... You do everything for free; it doesn't matter. Now we're moving on to societies. Have you been able to identify the company tax collection that they left in 2011? No; he referred to 2007. If they let it sink! Have you been able to argue that when I arrived at the Ministry of Finance - it was not the first time I arrived at the Ministry of Finance - with you big companies did not pay taxes, and with me, when I left the Ministry of Finance, those big companies paid taxes? Ask yourself once and for all how that could have happened with a socialist government. Ask him. Someday, be intellectually encouraged to do so, because you will find some answers to the policy that you were doing and to the keys to that policy, which has led us into that debt crisis - also to those companies, of course - which has dragged the Spanish economy into this very severe destruction of jobs. But you go up to the rostrum and you don't care. Go up to the rostrum to keep saying what he says. It doesn't handle a figure, it doesn't handle a reality, it won't contaminate you - look if that figure changes your criteria and makes you think! - and it goes up again to talk about the IRPF, which is what you oppose. Have you been able to argue that the cause of why the income tax lowers to the higher incomes is because we had raised it 7 points? Or isn't it? Of course, that means that, over what the Zapatero government left behind, higher incomes are not going to have a tax reduction; we are going down to middle and low incomes. That's the reality, which is based on the figures, but you're the Finance Spokesman who doesn't handle a figure, and in every intervention you always say: the figures I've read. Mr. Saura, the day you see me beat up one of those numbers... Well, it is not going to give time in this legislature, but I encourage your honor, as the next legislature is going to follow in the opposition, to continue in its endeavour, to continue in the respective studies; the same some figure leads to a sensible approach on some occasion. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u129	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, Mrs Pérez, from the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with the announcements that have been made public after the Council of Ministers on last 10th, the campaign for the next general elections has been launched. You, after the results of the regional and municipal elections on 24 May, have set out to recover with the money of all and all of the thousands of votes you have lost. Faced with this, the fulfilment of the deficit target imposed by the European Union for 2015 has moved to a completely secondary level, especially because if you do not govern in the next parliamentary term, the problem will not be yours but will be yours. The reduction of the IRPF planned for 2016 passes, through the work and grace of absolutely partisan reasons, to apply already this year and you quantify it in a savings of 1.5 billion euros for the taxpayers. That said and repeated one and a thousand times, it may seem that at last, after so many unfulfilled promises, after raising taxes excessively during these years, you would put some sanity on a question that is particularly sensitive to the citizens, who after their brutal cuts and reforms have been bled out since the rise of VAT - not only with the apology, Mr Montoro - or from the IBI to that of university fees or the receipt of light itself, to which I will then refer. While indirect taxes affect us all and all equally, regardless of our higher or lower income level, you are putting in place an advanced reduction of the IRPF which again affects the rise in inequality. This is not said by the BNG, they say, with clear and forceful data, the Hacienda's own technicians and it is also they who say that taxpayers with the lowest incomes, up to 12,450 euros, will not know about their electoral discount, which for them will amount to 0.32 cents a month or, which is the same, 4 euros a year. However, Mr Montoro, those who declare more than EUR 60,000 a year, which accounts for only 3.3% of the total, will save more than EUR 800 a year. Therefore, much of that EUR 1.5 billion of savings will remain in the hands, as always, of those who earn the most. I would like to remind you that in the Spanish State people who enter less than EUR 20,000 a year add up, nothing more and nothing less, than EUR 8.5 million and that it is the National Statistical Institute itself that tells us, according to the annual salary structure survey, that the most frequent salary does not exceed EUR 15,000 per year. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not all. In the case of self-employed persons, for whom Royal Decree 9/2015 provides for a 15 % retention, the reform will only affect a minimum part, those with incomes above EUR 15,000; that is, more than 3 million self-employed persons are hardly expected to benefit 400,000, so neither can we speak in this case of favouring self-employment nor much less what they have now called and put into fashion: entrepreneurship. The truth is that because of the policies they have developed against the self-employed we do not understand how there can still be someone who has the temptation to vote for them. This royal decree to reduce the tax burden borne by taxpayers goes even further and also enshrines inequality in the treatment of capital income. Again, in this case too, the large beneficiaries will be those who receive the highest income. A select group of only 56,000 people who earn capital income above 50,000 euros are the ones who will get the most savings per year, around 900 euros compared to the only 9 euros that will enter the majority of citizens with capital income of up to 6,000 euros. Anyway, Mr Montoro, the difference is more than remarkable. Again, the Government's electoral blindness is burdening the weakest and widening the gap in fiscal inequality and thus the gap in social inequality. Once again, reform is caught up and barely rubs off on those with the most economic resources. All this without counting that the cost of this EUR 1.5 billion for the State does not bring us by indirect an even greater increase in the taxes already paid by employees, with one of the lowest average incomes in the whole of the European Union. Finally, Minister, I would like to refer to another one of the issues which you have announced with double drums and which, in the end - and once the letter is small - does not cease to be another measure in the light of elections to be held at the end of this year. I am, of course, talking about saving for the decrease in the receipt of light. On the one hand, the savings they have promised us are only for this year, that is, for the remaining five months of this year. According to the Minister of Industry, the reduction in the receipt of light will be 2,2 % in the regulated part. I do not want to go much further, but only in the last 12 months, Mr Montoro, the bill for light has risen by an average of 7%. It would be enlightening if the Minister of Industry could explain to the users what this decrease of 2.2% is going to represent for five months. What could we be talking about? Four, five, six in five months? In this area where there has already been so much demagogy, it would be good if the Government once spoke clearly, without euphemism, and told, for example, that more than 1,80,000 families in the Spanish State in a situation of energy poverty could have 4 or 5 euros more in the next five months. Ladies and gentlemen, the announcement of the reduction in the receipt of light is particularly hurtful in these circumstances for users, but it is particularly scandalous for it to occur on election eves and when it is nothing more than pure science fiction. Ladies and gentlemen, tolls, the regulated part, account for almost half of the bill for light. The increase in prices in the wholesale electricity market, the pool, is expected to be maintained and this is what the other 50% of the electricity bill represents. Therefore, the 2.2% reduction in tolls will hardly compensate for the higher cost of energy. That is why it is, I repeat, pure science fiction. To this have led us to the illogical reforms of the electricity sector carried out by the Government and against which the Galego Nationalist Block has always been clearly opposed. Precisely the very strong climbs that have caused on the power or fixed term now want to disguise them with this 2.2% reduction in five months. It is no longer another lie, another deception, a mirage that after the end of the year elections will bring us back to the raw reality in 2016. A reality so perverse or more than the tariff deficit itself of more than EUR 26 billion at the moment and which we have to pay independently, Mr Montoro, of your supposed tax rebate, all equally. As long as we pay or as long as we are cut off for not doing so, the Government will not only continue to consent, but will continue to favour and fatten the astronomical results accounts of the large power companies. I'm done, Madam President. The BNG is not going to vote in favour of a real decree which is nothing more than the beginning of the People's Party's electoral programme and which, as such an electoral programme and as such a People's Party, only favors those who are the least in need of it. Mr Montoro, in Galicia we distinguish two terms to designate the last: one is the last, which we also use, and another, the word derladeiro, which is the last of the last, there can no longer be anything behind. The BNG expects this to be the last drafter of this Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u132	Thank you, Madam President. I will intervene briefly from the seat to set my group's position on this royal decree-law that we validate today, 9/2015, which is called urgent measures. Mr Montoro, it will be urgent because there are elections but, moreover, I do not see an urgency in this decree that is justified by its content. Furthermore, it joins with the tax measures another type of measure which also gives the character of urgency, a custom which this Government has been using and which I do not consider to be parliamentaryly reasonable. It would only be understood from the approach of one more chapter of the publication that I fear the Government will continue to develop intensively throughout July and August with the approval of the budgets, and that we will certainly not be able to avoid. Sincerely, Mr Montoro, as you also know, in tax matters and in matters where competition is in the hands of outside territories, I usually abstain. Therefore, I will not devote any more time to this part. I simply want to insist - and I do not know if it is Mr Saura's 5 euros or if it is something else you can tell us - that in any case what he is selling to all the citizens is a reform that from the point of view of the pocket, of what is going to affect them directly, is a really insignificant amount. In that sense, I think we should say what it is, what it really means to everyone, or supposes, without trying to deceive and forget that we are in an electoral moment. I am not going to refer to this issue any more, I just want to mention the energy issue, if I may, Mr Montoro, and also very briefly. In chapter II of the Royal Decree there are three measures relating to the energy sector. On the one hand, a door is opened to the reduction of tolls and charges for small self-consumption projects, which I believe is a modest but positive measure precisely because of that door that opens and the possibilities that it can give in the future. On the other hand, social measures are put in place for workers of non-competitive mining companies, as you have pointed out, that we believe that, to the extent that it involves aid for those workers, it is a matter to be welcomed. And finally, the unit values are changed, which is called capacity payments, which is what can make it possible to lower the citizens' energy bill for how long; it is said that for what is left of the year, which is not much. On this issue, Mr Montoro, I would like to reflect because we are concerned about the government's ability to change what is called capacity payments and, ultimately, the reduction of the electricity bill. From the formal point of view, the measure generates surprise because, on the one hand, the royal decree sets at the level of law prices that until now have been ministerial orders. The legal rank seems to us to be excessive and, in principle, unnecessary, except that since article 19.5 of the Electricity Act will be amended, a legal rank is also required. Article 19.5 reads as follows, Mr Montoro: As long as the items of costs of the electricity system reflect payments corresponding to debts outstanding from previous years, the charges cannot be revised downwards. And according to this article, as far as the general application is concerned, it should not be possible, in our view, to carry out a decrease as proposed by the Government, since the excess collection now alleged should be devoted to returning the accumulated deficits whose payment for interest and annual depreciation will cost about 2,900 million euros in 2014. In fact, Royal Decree-Law 9/2015 does not alter the Electricity Sector Act at this point, but simply ignores it, and this could be explained by the understanding that a specific law has been made for the now approved tariff reduction. That is, the Electricity Act has general application less for the modification of tolls collected in this royal decree. Obviously, this is an interpretation that leaves the Government in a bad place, generates legal uncertainty and fundamentally empty of content the reform of the electricity sector. With this approach, I do not want to say that we are against the reduction of the electricity bill even if it is small, which we think is great, but we are putting on the table the possibility that this reduction from the legal point of view is questionable, that it is reviewable and that it can be turned back. For all this, our group, fundamentally bearing in mind that what prevails in the royal decree is the tax content, in which we normally abstain, as you very well know, Minister, will also abstain in this royal decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u133	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group, as has already happened in the previous debate, is part of the general approach of what the role of direct taxes is. They have two functions: the first is to generate or contribute to the well-being of citizens, raising the income needed to meet the needs of public goods and services, i.e. those in which use is not directly associated with respect to payment. But they have a second role no less important, which is to contribute to social justice through a process of redistribution of wealth, which cannot be attributed to indirect taxes. Since both functions are equally necessary, it is necessary to analyse this royal decree in the obviously tax reduction part of the IRPF, considering the two dimensions. I am already telling you that we are going to support this royal decree for a fundamental reason, for the reason that if the lower incomes and the average incomes are actually the ones that have basically borne the increases of the IRPF, if the economy goes well, it is logical that they are relieved from the fiscal pressure even if it is a limited and temporary relief. But, obviously, we observe in the great clear decree. There are aspects that, as a parliamentary group, we consider to be positive: for example, exemptions for income and income linked to meeting the basic needs of the most vulnerable sectors of society. We also share the view that the rate applied to courses, conferences, seminars and the production of literary and artistic works should be reduced by 4%. Criticisms have been made about the impact of the rise of VAT on culture, well this compensates, at least in this way, the authors of that cultural activity. We also have important discrepancies and the fundamental thing is that we believe that the IRPF reform project has been short, it has been unambitious. It relieves fiscal pressure, but it's short. For example, we would have seen a need to increase the minimum rate to at least EUR 14,000. Why? Because yes, because it is the milleurists who for fourteen paid in the end charge 14,000 euros, but not here, here they have been cut short. Applying the minimum rate would have affected a significant low-income sector, but not so low as to be covered by the exemptions we saw before they covered basic needs. We believe that we should compensate for the high incomes, by establishing an additional tranche of more than EUR 60,000 that would maintain the old 52% that you lower. Between 60,000 and 100,000 euros there is an important stretch that you cover, but from 100,000 euros are the great fortunes. And why lower them to 47%? Why not keep them 52%? We also think that in the treatment that you give to companies, rather, to company advisors and managers, you are clearly barging in favour of large or medium-sized companies. In fact, they set a 2 % reduction for business advisors and managers who have a turnover of more than EUR 100,000. On the other hand, the same small business advisors and managers who do not reach these business figures are only reduced by 1 %. Wouldn't it have been more logical to do it backwards? Finally, we believe that from a technical point of view it would have been appropriate to wait to have the balance sheet of the fiscal year or, at least, since there will be an end to the legislature, to have waited until November to have a picture, since they would have taken it by royal decree-law, more complete because if not, and linked to the debate that I have had before with you, we can find that this measure, in addition to being considered electoralist for the moment it is adopted, can contribute to not matching the figures of the expenditure ceiling that have been presented, unless, as the previous colleagues have said, it is a purely marginal reduction. Frankly, to conclude, I think they have missed the opportunity to make an IRPF reform more ambitious, had time and could have done so, although the entry into force of that rule that they might have promoted began in 2016 and not in July 2015. I believe that this would have been more consistent with the approach to deficit and debt targets and would have prevented you from being ascribed an electoral character to this measure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u135	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing, on my own behalf and on behalf of our group, our solidarity with the Leonardo miner trapped in the Zarreu mine, Degaña, a few hours ago. [[Applauds]] This confirms once again the hardness of mining work and also confirms the importance of finding a just way out of the conversion of coal mining in this country. Mr. Montoro, we repeat it again: once again, they bring us a decree-law that mixes barbecues with merinas. Of course that totum revolutum is neither a necessity nor an error, an error that, by the way, when repeated is an option. Yours is a strategy that you have used throughout the legislature to force with a single vote the opinion of topics that on many occasions have different ratings and so that you, in a boast of total manicism, launch here saying: So you do not want to lower taxes? Thus, in general, as if the citizens of this country did not have differences and social interests between them and as if there were no differences between one tax type and another. Today, once again, we confirm, Mr Montoro, that for the People's Party the Council of Ministers has become an electoral market company, the BOE in its main sales platform and this Congress in a kind of market that you come to claim that of: good, nice and cheap. Unfortunately, that's what you're getting used to. They bring us today an appearance of fiscal and energy measures that is above all an electoral pamphlet dedicated to fishing four votes with the same technique as ever: trying to deceive citizens at the gates of the elections. They have previously presented us with a supposedly idyllic economic scenario that, in your opinion, allows them some joy. For you the joys are to rehearse vows at the obvious disconcertingness that your policies have provoked and the dissatisfaction that they have generated. They do so despite the fact that a few minutes ago they had us approve a spending limit that entails a significant reduction in public spending, which - I insist - is eminently social spending. Mr. Montoro, when do you tell the truth, at the previous point or at this one? Possibly neither. They may both be using political falsehood as an instrument of action. That you are aiming at a cut in social spending is not what we say, but what the European Council's own recommendations, which you have brought as an annex to the expenditure limit point to justify your approach, point. We are clearly told that new structural reforms will have to be addressed in 2016. In the language that citizens know, new structural reforms are new cuts in social rights. Again they try to repeat the 2011 election scam: promise improvements before the elections to then stick the social tijeretazo. As this election scam strategy worked for them in 2011, they now seem to want to repeat it. Let's go through parts to address this decree-law. With regard to coal mining, I have no objection to recognising that the share of non-competitive coal aid is positive, insofar as it anticipates access to such aid as of 1 January 2016. If you had handled it specifically, you would have had our vote in favour. Mr Montoro, as the trade unions in the sector have already done, you are reminded that the Government is failing to comply with the commitments signed on 1 October 2013 to address the conversion of that sector. This unfulfilled commitment is the one that has allowed the Government to save itself during 2015 on payment of supply guarantee remuneration and now that savings are using it for an occasional and transitional reduction of the electricity tariff. Excuse me, but the cubicles are the most appropriate way to analyze how you play with the theme of coal reform and, at the same time, with the supposed reduction of the electric fare. Electrical tariffs. It is our opinion that we have expressed to you on more than one occasion. You call electric reform or tariff modification to what, once again - and there are many during this term - becomes a deception of this government. Once again, it is shown that the electricity sector is operating in the service and dictates of an energy lobby that has a great deal of power, especially influencing the policies of this Government. The Government tells us that electricity tariffs have been reduced and, on the other hand, data from the National Statistical Institute confirm that the electricity tariff in the system as a whole has been increased during 2014 by 4.4% compared to 2013. So you come and tell us that they are two different things, because one thing is the system-wide rate and the other is the domestic consumer rate. But harmonised Eurostat data tell us that the domestic consumer's rate has increased by 0.7% in 2014. Therefore, neither the INE nor Eurostat give you reason, but take it away. By the way, the data collected in a recent very solvent report by the Workers' Commissions of the industry sector say that the increase in the electricity tariff during the first half of 2015 is fluctuating between 7 and 10 % depending on different sectors and different impacts. This is the reality, however much you try to present the opposite and present yourselves as the adalides of the reduction of the electricity tariff of this country. That's not true. Moreover, what you are asking us today, and it is obvious, because you are not hiding, is a supposed reduction in the electricity tariff only for a few months, from now until 31 December 2015. Who are you trying to fool, Mr. Montoro? This time your strategy of deception is very zafia, especially because in this same decree-law you keep something as incomprehensible as the model of sun tax, which penalizes electric self-consumption. Whether you put a tax on excess or net electricity consumption could make sense, but that you do so in the whole of the production that generates the self-consumption, even that which serves for the self-consumption of families, of the people who have established that alternative mechanism, it seems to us that it is, as it has been with renewables before, an attempt to maintain the electric status quo for the benefit of the energy lobby and against an alternative renewable energy system. Finally, with regard to the IRPF, some things have already been said here. I would simply like to insist on one point. What you propose as an advance in the deductions at source of the IRPF is once again seen as having an impact: increasing tax inequalities. It increases them, yes, Mr Montoro, even if you don't like to recognize it, and we don't say it, it's been told by analysts of all kinds. And it confirms one thing: if the social distribution of the benefits in the golden time of the bubble was unequal, deeply unequal have been the sacrifices endured to pay the baccalaureate of the benefits of that bubble. Where do you get that the costs of getting out of this crisis have been distributed socially in an equitable way? Do you really believe that with the increase in inequality that has occurred in this country, together with the increase in poverty, we can talk about equal sharing of costs? The only ones who see it are you, who look with special lenses made only for the government and for the People's Party. And now that the economic recovery is coming, it turns out that you are also pointing to an unequal distribution of the possibilities of sharing those advantages because what you do is increase fiscal inequalities and do so in many ways. First, because the reduction is much greater the greater the declared income. That's not gonna deny it to me. Secondly, because you have lost the opportunity to reduce the inequity between income from capital and income from work. Only if they had changed that in relation to income from work and had maintained and increased the fiscal pressure to equalize and eliminate the dual system in relation to income from capital, that situation of inequality would have been mitigated. But they have not, nor have they addressed it in other matters. Mr. Montoro, let's see how I tell you. You go out here, you go to the Socialist Group and you use the comparative element, and you use other elements; you compare your policies with the fiscal policies of the Socialist Government, let me tell you that. I have no problem, as long as you do not tell us what the Vice-President of the Government told us that we support this Government when we vote against the 2007 corporation tax change, when we vote against the Social Security Reform Act, when we vote against the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution, and when we vote against, and we made a general strike against those measures, of labour reform. As long as you don't tell me that, I have no problem with you arguing with the Socialist Party. But do you know what it looks like? If you and I compare ourselves to a person who measures 1.50 we look giant, but you and I continue to be people of low stature. [[Applauds]] I don't know how to tell you, though I think it's pretty clear. In short, Mr Montoro, if your Government intended to compensate the citizens of this country for some of the barbarities, grievances and suffering inflicted by its policy, instead of making this tax grant, it could, for example, use the resources to improve the treatment of the 480,000 dependents who do not have benefits, or to increase the coverage of the 2 million unemployed who do not have any kind of benefits, or to care for 1,700,000 households...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u137	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u138	... that they have all their members unemployed, or to address the waiting lists of the National Health System, although according to a spokesman of their group it turns out that that only happens in Catalonia, because in the rest of the country things go wonderful. In short, Mr Montoro, we cannot be in favour of your approach because what you are doing is exactly the opposite of what you are predicting. It is not a real reparation to the citizens of this country; on the contrary, it is an increase in deep equality. Finally, just one thing. Do you want citizens to believe them after they lied in the 2011 elections...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u139	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u140	I'm done, yeah, yeah. ...after lying denying that the goal of labor reform was a sudden drop in wages, after lying saying that the bank bailout was not going to cost citizens anything, after lying saying that the tax amnesty was not a tax amnesty? Now they come and want Spanish citizens to believe this new lie. I don't think it's hanging this time, Mr. Montoro. I hope that the Spanish citizens have learned that their lies, lies are even if they are dressed in silk. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u141	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Convergence I d'Unió Group, Mr Picó has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u142	Thank you, Madam President. At this stage of the debate, Minister, you should hardly be surprised that the entire opposition is calling this royal decree-law an electoralist. The measures presented to us by this royal decree-law respond more - we believe - to a desire for self-promotion of the executive power than to a corrective measure of impulse of economic recovery and job creation. Let's see why, Minister. With regard to the measures taken on the IRPF, these measures that you take with the Royal Decree-Law respond to the scant impact of the tax reform that you adopted last year and that came into force this year. The collection data, and especially retention data, that grow in both cases, show this. And you have told us before, Minister: that they were growing a little. If the impact of the approved tax reform had been more, we wouldn't have this royal decree-law here today. Secondly, it is a temporary measure, Minister, which partially advances a measure planned for next year and which means leaving the IRPF just at the same level as when they arrived at the government; therefore, after the increase they adopted in 2012 the tax that existed before the People's Party reached the government is now restored. Minister, this is not a real reduction in the tax burden for all taxpayers; and I stress, all of them. The tax reductions provided for in this Royal Decree-Law, together with those introduced by the tax reform, do not benefit all taxpayers alike. I think that especially the average income, which totals about 11 million taxpayers, will hardly enjoy an effective saving with this royal decree-law. In that regard, his Government continued to disregard families and middle classes in general, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed workers, whom it had promised in this legislature to improve their taxation and which represented the majority of taxpayers and were the ones who had taken the greatest responsibility for the increase in taxes that it had carried out in this legislature. Furthermore, Minister, you are aware of the difficulty in implementing the Royal Decree-Law in practice in the middle of the fiscal year. This is going to be difficult. We wonder one thing, Minister. With what parameters is it decided to take this and not other measures? For example, since it has the capacity for increased collection and retention, why has it not been used to reduce cultural VAT, or that of hairdressers, or that of sports services when it is well aware, Minister, that the disproportionate increase in VAT has punished economic sectors such as these, which have an important potential for growth and job creation? Why didn't you do it, Minister? He's done this and he hasn't done any other things. If we recognize one thing, which you have heard from the Members of the Democratic Union of Catalonia, especially Mr Sánchez i Llibre, whom we have been demanding of you to reinstate, after the increase that you approved, the 15% retention for self-employed workers. The increase in taxation they approved has had a considerable impact on their liquidity and treasury, which, together with the increase in VAT, also implemented by the Government at the beginning of the legislature, has contributed more if the capacity for spending, investment and job creation can be limited to professionals and, ultimately, their possible contribution to economic recovery. Therefore, welcome is that correction, Minister. Do you think, Minister, that the unembargoability of public social benefits and aid has been properly addressed? This emergency procedure of the royal decree-law has us worried. We have some doubts and believe that we will meet with some surprises and that again we will have to modify quickly and running their treatment. Minister, in short, it is a reform that is more a declaration of intentions for the gallery than a real action plan that will contribute to improving economic recovery and job creation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u143	Thank you, Mr. Picó. Mrs. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the explanatory statement of this royal decree-law confirms that the economy is better and that it has been raised more, which is positive. In fact, it seems clear that the Government's intention is to adopt a set of measures that will prove to the citizens that there is an economic recovery, which would also be positive; but let me make two brief general considerations to this effect, with which I intend to highlight the when and who of this executive intention. On when the government decides that recovery must reach the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that Convergence is pleased to see - it appreciates positively - that the government in this royal decree is committed to reducing the retention of the self-employed by 15%. We also welcome the fact that it will give effect to the non-embargoability of social aid. In fact, both measures have been very much claimed earlier by our parliamentary group and by Convergence, and that is why we appreciate them very positively. However, when we come to this point, it is inevitable that we ask ourselves why now, four months after the general elections. On whom the Government has decided to receive this economic improvement, we believe that it will not be the citizens who need it most, those of the lowest incomes, and will not be because, on the one hand, the advance of the reduction of the IRPF proposed by this royal decree-law will essentially benefit the citizens with the highest incomes and, on the other hand, the autonomous communities, which are the ones that allocate the most income to the provision of basic services, such as education and health, because the Government has decided that it will not share the largest revenue obtained this year with the territorial administrations. Having made these two general considerations, for our group and for Convergence very relevant, on the intentionality of the royal decree-law, I will begin to comment on some aspects related to the tax rebate of the IRPF. In this regard, I would like to make two points. Firstly, it must be said that this reform is not new. The government is advancing the second part of the IRPF rebate that was already foreseen in the fiscal reform for 2016 six months and it cannot be denied that the tax reform proposed by the People's Party does not reduce taxes, as these will not go down with respect to the start of the legislature in 2011. Secondly, this is a measure which, as proposed, is insolidary and is for three essential reasons. Firstly, because this reform essentially benefits, as I said earlier, from higher incomes. If we quantify this second tranche of the tax rebate, we realize that the savings for average incomes will be about 20 euros a month and the lower incomes will hardly notice anything because those who earn less than 12,000 euros do not tax and because the first part of the reform meant the most substantial reduction. The highest incomes are those that, compared to 2014, will notice more this second stretch of the tax rebate. Another reason why we believe that the reduction is insolidating is because, before lowering taxes on higher incomes, we believe that it would be more efficient for the Government to spend this greater savings on social policies that affect the vast majority of citizens, such as education, health or dependency, and above all on policies aimed at the inclusion of young people in the labour market to reduce the unemployment that affects them, as well as on policies for children with the aim of reducing child poverty, something that the Convergence and Union Group is concerned about and concerned about. Finally, this reform is also inconclusive from our perspective because the Government is taking over the 100 per cent of the revenue from the increase in the tax burden carried out with the participation of the Autonomous Communities through the supplementary levy of the IRPF and the increase in VAT and excise duties, in which the Autonomous Communities have participated but the State does not allow them to benefit in this exercise when it is now when they would need more of these resources. In fact, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is because of this failure to distribute the largest collection so that the central administration can reduce the type of general basis of the state tranche while the autonomous communities are required to continue to make fiscal consolidation efforts through spending adjustments when they are spent on basic public services such as health, education or social services. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a few brief comments on the measures that are incorporated into this royal decree-law relating to the energy sector. These are measures which we believe do not contribute to stability, on the contrary, and which are implemented at the expense of energy policy, which we believe is critical. We continue to have a strictly financial and less industrial and less citizen-sensitive energy policy. For example, the reduction of the price of light is only a mirage, the price of light is being lowered before the elections to raise it later from 1 January 2016. The same is true of self-consumption. The obstacles imposed by the Government are not eliminated by this royal decree, so we believe that self-consumption is not actually viable.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u145	Mrs. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u146	I'm done, Madam President. As regards aid to workers in non-competitive coal mining companies, these are specific measures which do not solve the root problem of the coal sector in the Spanish State. In short, and I conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the royal decree contains measures which we share and which we value positively, such as those of the self-employed and the non-embargoability of social aid, but as a whole it is insufficient for us and does not - we believe - transfer economic recovery to all the citizens, nor does it make the necessary income available to the self-employed communities.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Riera. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Asian. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, lowering taxes, lowering the bill for light, means returning some of the efforts made to the citizens. Anyone who is opposed to lowering the IRPF, who is opposed to lowering the receipt of light by an average of 2% to consumers, will have to explain very well to the Spaniards why they are opposed to being compensated for the efforts made. We are in the same position as ever, our commitment to society is clear: to lower taxes as long as the level of collection allows us and the financing of essential public services is guaranteed. We sincerely believe that increasing availability - that is, money in the citizens' pocket - has a positive multiplier effect that makes us enter a virtuous circle of greater consumption, greater investment and greater employment. And why now? Simply because economic and collection developments are more positive than expected. Until May tax collection has increased by 7,4 % in terms of national accounts. Who would tell us that in 2015 we could be here with a decree-law to validate an IRPF rebate, that we could tell all Spaniards that at the end of the legislature the vast majority of IRPF taxpayers will pay less for that tax than at the beginning of the legislature? I am going to be allowed, before I go into summarising what the speakers from the other groups have said, to mention the speech by the spokesman for the Socialist Group because I was surprised. It must be made of a very special paste to draw the special tax declaration in this House for the umpteenth time when the reality, always silly, has shown him that what he has said about this extraordinary regularization was not true. This declaration neither cleans nor washes crimes, does not whitewash conduct; with this special tax declaration, this extraordinary regularization gives transparency to funds that were hidden, that had remained hidden and that would continue to prescribe, as happened with the Socialist Government. It contrasts this tax pulcrity of the spokesman with the gross view he makes in other cases; for example, with the Falciani list, in which it is not a question of giving transparency to hidden funds, but the opposite: hiding funds that were already transparent, funds whose ownership was known to the Administration. Once this exception has been made - that the spokesman has to be made of a very special paste to get this out for the umpteenth time and that we, the rest of the Members, also have to be made of a very special paste for having the holy patience to listen to it with education - they will allow me to highlight the criticism that has been made about the regressivity: that favors the rich. Let's see. With the reduction proposed by the People's Group, the minimum rate of the IRPF in 2016 is 19%. However, the minimum IRPF rate in 2011 was 24 %, i.e. 5 points less. The top guy? The maximum rate is the same: 45%, with the exception of the Socialist Party applying the maximum rate from EUR 175,000 and the People's Party applying from EUR 60,000. Therefore, regressivity, impossible. A lie repeated a thousand times isn't a truth, it's still a lie. Here are mixed rates and quotas, percentages and amounts to be paid. Evidently, taxpayers with greater purchasing capacity pay more fees for the IRPF; when reduced, the decrease is also greater and is more than proportional because the rate is progressive. With regard to this confusion, I could say many things, but I will say only one: that everything that has been said about the rich, about elitist politics, about protecting incomes with greater economic capacity, will have to be multiplied by three in the case of the Socialist Government, because the maximum rate is the same, 45%, but we applied it from 60,000 euros and you applied it from 175,000 euros, and 175,000 is almost three times 60,000, then everything that has been said about the regressivity of the tax will have to multiply it by three in the case of Mr Zapatero's second government. As for the lack of proposals from the Socialist Group's spokesman, I have to say that he has managed practically to deceive us. I sincerely believed that it was comfort; however, the erratic policy that has been pursued by the Socialist Government - from the fact that lowering taxes is left-wing to running up VAT to the minimum pressure of the European authorities, by allowing the large groups to use all kinds of structures to lower their tax bill - allows me to conclude that the position is not only of comfort but is intended. No proposal is made to have a blank cheque to make a totally electoralist speech and, when I am in the Government, I will see what I do. Because, for example, why don't they define what a rich man is? If you're going to burden the rich so much, define them. Since they do not, I have to conclude that, like my friends' friends, my friends are and there are those who have defined them as taxpayers with an income of more than 50,000 euros, that is the position of the Socialist Party: to tax those incomes of more than 50,000 euros, that is to say, to income from work, to professionals, to self-employed people who exceed this figure. Obviously, this assumption I make because there is no proposal; if there is, my commitment is to stick to the proposal that has been made. At the moment, in the absence of a proposal, they will have to decide which model they want, if the Greek model, to prevent the shipping companies, or the local of Madrid, from imposing a rate on everything that moves to the first occurrence. It is also not valid to mix up taxes with increased collection. Not distinguishing these concepts is bad, but knowing the differences and intentionally applying them to confuse is worse. In Spain, no taxes have been raised in 2014 and collection has increased by more than 6 billion. Why? Because the reduction of taxes at the right time, as we thought, leads to an increase in collection: because there is more employment, because there is more economic activity, because they do not close so many companies with liquidation because the People's Party has issued special regulations for these assumptions, etc. Since it is not valid to talk about data from 2007 and then no more talk about anything because of everything else it was the fault, from 2008, the crisis. Of this, the company tax fell by 63 % and the profits of the companies fell by 36 %, so the remaining 27 % of the revenue drop is due to the policies and regulations of the socialist government. Measures such as the freedom of amortization - which would be very good if it required creating employment - did not limit the deduction of financial expenses, etc., led the big groups, the big corporations to have a minimum tax. In addition, the collection did not fall to lead, it did not go from one day to another, it was gradual, it went from €44 billion in 2007 to €16,000 in 2011. And the socialist government stood idly by this fall without doing anything at all. We still do not know the answer to why the taxation of large taxpayers was not increased. Didn't he want to? Couldn't it? We're waiting for an answer. At the moment, we are asking for the vote on this decree-law because our only purpose is that economic recovery, well-being, growth, job creation, reach all Spaniards and as soon as possible. Undoubtedly this decree-law is a step forward for this purpose. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Asian. DEBATE CONCERNING THE AUTHORIZATION OF THE NATIONAL DEFENCE UNDER ARTICLE 17.1 OF ORGANICAL LAW 5/2005 OF 17 NOVEMBER 2005: - APPLICATION FOR AUTHORISATION BY THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTED FOR THE DEPLOYMENT AND PARTICIPATION OF THE ARMED FORCES IN THE MILITARY OPERATION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN THE MEDITERRANEAN CENTRAL MERIDIONAL, EUNAVFOR MED. [[File number 095/000008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u150	We continue with the debate on the request for authorization by the Chamber provided for in article 17 of the Organic Law 5/2005 of 17 November of the National Defence, of the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 10 July 2015 requesting authorization from the Congress of Deputies for the deployment and participation of the Armed Forces in the European Union military operation in the southern central Mediterranean. The Minister of Defence has the floor for his presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you to request the authorization provided for in Article 17 of Law 5/2005 of the National Defence for the participation of Spanish troops in missions abroad. First I would like to record the Government's condolences for the death of a civilian guard officer from the Tedax Service in Almeria, Don Emiliano Quintana Fernández, who has lost his life in an accident this afternoon at fifteen o'clock. Returning to the matter, on this occasion I ask for your vote in favour of our troops joining the operation of the European Union Eunavfor Med, which is called. This participation will take place under the terms, conditions and circumstances set out in the Council of Ministers agreement of 10 July 2015, which has been referred to this House by the Government and which I shall then explain in its context, possible developments and more specific details. As you will recall, the conclusions of the Council of the European Union of December 2013 began with the phrase: Defence matters. The conflicts that today affect areas that are increasingly close to our fellow citizens, our territory and our interests, as well as those of our closest allies, had not yet exploded with all their intensity. Defence matters because security is a need felt and required by society, whatever its political, economic and social situations and, in particular, in those that have developed states of law, democracy, freedom and justice that by their very condition make us more easily attackable by those who do not respect any of these values so hard to achieve throughout our shared history. This is the eighth time that I have appeared before this House, either in plenary or in the Commission, to ask them to vote in favour of the participation of Spanish soldiers in missions abroad, all of them with the common objective of providing security, that is, stability that will enable them to develop progress and well-being to those who do not have them. Well, of those seven previous requests, at least six are trying to face circumstances directly related to the root causes of the mission that brings us here today. I speak to you, ladies and gentlemen, of our operations in Mali, where we train the new armed forces of that country, an essential task also for our own security. I am also speaking to you about our air support from Senegal to the French contingent Barkhane, which is carrying out the fundamental task of containing fundamentalist terrorism in the Sahel. Our work in Central Africa, where we help to consolidate an irrevocable instrument for the rule of law and prevent it from becoming another failed State, has been to contribute to the failure of a systematic genocide between two factions within the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also speaking to you about our efforts to train an Iraqi army that can protect its citizens from the barbarism of Daesh and develop the consolidation of the state in that country, Somalia and Afghanistan, Turkey and Lebanon. Finally, I am talking to you about the responsibility that Spain has assumed for global stability and I am grateful for the majority of the support that these operations have had in this House. All these actions - probably given some imperfections in the functioning of the international community and also some omissions - have a direct link with what I am bringing here today. Today I come to present to you a crisis management operation in the Mediterranean, a small but totally essential part of the overall response that the European Union has decided to give to the dramatic humanitarian situation in the Central Mediterranean, particularly linked to the chaos that Libya has been experiencing lately. As you know, this is a particularly complex crisis of which mass immigration by sea is only a symptom of major evils, a mere effect of the political, economic and social circumstances that produce it and that we have to help resolve among all. To this major underlying problem - which is not addressed by the measures we are going to take in this operation which I am presenting to you if your ladies and gentlemen are willing to approve it - we will have to confront it if we do not want the problem to become endemic. However, as I say, what we bring here today is urgent to remedy real-time tragedies while I am addressing your ladies and gentlemen with this request. We must help to alleviate the tragedy immediately, but, I repeat, it should not be forgotten that, in addition to the above-mentioned insecurity and poverty of all kinds, other root causes that generate this situation lie in factors of political instability which have their most tragic consequence in armed conflicts and which destroy the African continent and the Middle East, increasingly close, by the way. We must be aware that the drama we see in the Mediterranean, in this case in the Central Mediterranean, also has a profound and dramatic reflection on the vast and multiple transit routes throughout Central and North Africa. We must not forget that many of the people who suffer this tragedy, no matter how dramatic the odyssey they may or will live in the sea, never reach the Libyan coasts. From the Ministry of Defence, we follow with special attention not only the situation at sea, but also all the possible effects that this situation could have on a large area of North Africa. The fragile situation in Libya and the current permeability of Libya's borders mean that any action can have a direct impact on neighbouring countries. As I have stated in previous appearances, this region represents a challenge for Spanish foreign action, as it brings together various challenges to which our country, together with other allies of the European Union and the international community, must respond with active policies. As I say to you, the situation has been aggravated by the unsustainable situation in Libya. The origins of the Libyan conflict have long been debated profusely in this House, which, as some of you will recall, approved with an overwhelming majority the participation of Spain in the NATO operation of 2011. We have also dealt extensively and more precisely with the implicit and explicit risks to our country and to the whole of the European Union that instability in the southern Mediterranean, particularly in the Gulf of Sirte and throughout the Libyan coast. Unfortunately, since July 2014, the situation has gradually worsened. The country is facing a deep political and security crisis, the complexity of which is accentuated by the growing presence of Daesh-affiliated groups. The United Nations is leading a political dialogue process to push for a ceasefire agreement and the creation of a Government of National Unity in Libya, whose legal framework would be provided by a new constitution. However, and despite some good news we have received these days, the continuing incidents and disagreements between the factions involved continue to plunge the country into instability that makes it impossible for us to have a valid dialogue. As a result of this situation, the Central Mediterranean route has become the most used route for the illegal traffic of migrants to Europe. This occurs mainly from the Libyan coasts to Malta and to the Italian islands of Lampedusa and Sicily. Although several departure points were previously used on the entire Libyan coast, and even in its vicinity, the main boarding sites are currently located on the western coast of Libya, controlled by the Tripoli-based National General Congress. Before starting the journey from there, immigrants have crossed the Sahel using several land routes that originate in the Horn of Africa or in West Africa and converge in southwest Libya, in Sabha to be more concrete. Many of them must remain a good season in Libyan territory, trying to obtain by any means the money necessary to embark on Europe. Over the past two decades, more than 20,000 immigrants died using the Mediterranean routes, most of them in accidents that occurred precisely on that central route; only in 2014 the migrants drowned in those waters of which it is known reached the figure of 3,500. In the same year, 170,000 people had to be rescued by the various aircraft services involved. As far as 2015 goes, the dead are almost 1,500, although the efficiency in the rescue of operations Triton and Poseidon continues, in which the Civil Guard participates within our jurisdiction. These figures clearly express the magnitude of the tragedy we are talking about. As the President of the Government pointed out this morning, bringing the feeling of the European Union, we could not remain unfettered in the face of an unacceptable humanitarian situation, which also has important implications of all kinds for those of us who are part of that political unity. We have probably been thinking too long, talking about why and how to deal with the situation, how to implement the multiple crisis management instruments available to us, without any definitive action being taken to resolve this issue. In order to overcome this impasse and as a responsible European partner, we have, from the very beginning, promoted the process of planning, approving and launching the Eunavfor Med operation that I am presenting to you today. Its aim is to combat the ways and forms of action of the mafias who traffic with human beings, and whose immediate priority is to prevent more people from dying at sea. It is painful to see how sometimes even international organisations with relatively agile mechanisms of political action, such as the European Union itself, consume a significant amount of time - vital in many cases such as this, of course - until they are able to react. Perhaps the lack of a shared strategy in external action and defence and security is one of the causes. I hope that the decisions taken by the European Council to which the President of the Government referred this morning will serve this purpose. Not to look, and as an immediate consequence not to address security and defence problems, is to aggravate them. That is why I am glad that the High Representative has decided, and the political leaders have agreed, to launch this security strategy. That is why the process was reactivated on 19 April, immediately after the tragic sinking 70 miles north of the Libyan coasts of a ship in which 700 immigrants were travelling. Thus, four days after that catastrophe, the Heads of State and Government of the European Union, meeting on an extraordinary basis in Brussels, decided that the Union would mobilize all the means at its disposal to prevent the continued loss of life at sea and to address the root causes of this human tragedy, in cooperation with the countries of origin and transit. Therefore, and beyond the activity already carried out by Frontex in coordination with several Member States, and that of the Italian Government in the exercise of its powers, the European Union decided to use all the means which, supported by the relevant legislation, would be necessary to tackle the tragedy. At the extraordinary Council held on 23 April 2015, in particular, urgent measures were taken in four priority areas: strengthening the European presence at sea, strengthening common responsibility and internal solidarity, preventing illegal migratory flows and combating, above all, networks of trafficking in immigrants, in accordance with international law and mainly through systematic efforts to detect, capture and destroy vessels before they can be used by criminals who traffic in persons. To this end, the Council requested the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to begin preparations for a possible operation within the framework of the common security and defence policy. High Representative Mogherini then briefed the United Nations Security Council on the possible military operation, stressing that any action by the European Union would, as it could not otherwise be, be in accordance with international law. At the same time, it requested the Security Council to adopt measures or resolutions to support the actions of the European Union. On 18 May 2015, the European Council, by Decision 2015/778, approved the concept of crisis management for the operation in the Southern Central Mediterranean and the decision for its establishment. Similarly, the Italian vice-admiral Enrico Credino was appointed commander of the Eunavfor Med, and his operational headquarters was established in Rome. As we have seen, the fundamental mission of the military operation is to disrupt the business model of illicit trafficking networks and trafficking in persons through systematic procedures to identify, capture and dispose of vessels and means used or available to traffickers. The Decision also provides that Eunavfor Med will cooperate with the Member States and establish appropriate coordination mechanisms with other relevant and linked agencies and bodies, in particular Frontex, Europol and Eurojust, the European Asylum Support Office and the Common Security and Defence Policy missions. In the same act, the processes for the provision of the mandatory Initial Military Directive and the corresponding Operations Plan were initiated. Both instruments have been designed in accordance with the requirements of the main existing legal instruments and, in particular, the following provisions: the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, the 2000 Protocols against the Illicit Traffic in Migrants by Land, Sea and Air and to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children. Both texts complement the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. The 1974 International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, the 1979 International Convention on Search and Rescue and the 1976 Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Region of the Mediterranean have also been included. Finally, the 1951 Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and international human rights law. The fundamental link between these conventions and, therefore, the humanitarian element on which the whole operation is built is undoubtedly the duty to assist people at risk at sea and to bring survivors to a safe place. The ships assigned to Eunavfor Med will therefore be ready and equipped to carry out these tasks under the coordination of the competent rescue coordination centre. With the legal framework clear, work began, as I told them, to close the operation. In this way, the Post Generation Conference for headquarters was held in Brussels on 28 May. That same day we passed on to our partners that we would contribute, obtained in their case the approval of this House which I come today to ask for, with at least eight of the headquarters posts. At the same time, it was reported that it was intended to participate in the Force Generation Conference conditional on the timing of the launch of the operation and, of course, on the parliamentary authorization I have just mentioned. The following days were devoted to negotiations to approve the initial military directive, the process of which was not without difficulties. As you will suspect, the problems were mainly due to the discrepancies between some of our partners on the determination of the ports of landing of the immigrants, once they had been rescued by the ships of Eunavfor MED. In fact, the Military Directive was adopted on 3 June because it was agreed to postpone the debate on this controversial issue. In any case, it was stated that the matter would have to be resolved, as is natural, before the approval of the Operations Plan. At the meeting of the Political and Security Committee on 9 June, this political guide was provided under two fundamental premises: the principle of non-refoulement of persons rescued at sea was reaffirmed and it was established that the procedure for their landing would be the same as applied in Operation Triton de Frontex. Landings will therefore be carried out at ports in Italy or, in the event of an emergency, in Malta, always by coordination with the European Border Agency. Once this delicate and technically very complex issue was resolved, it seemed that the approval of the Operations Plan would be peaceful, but the process was equally laborious. Among the Member States, the European Union's General Staff and the legal services of the European Union's external action service, a total of two hundred and fifty comments were sent to the first draft, which contained a few leaflets, allowing an idea of the complexity of the document. Many of those comments dealt with the three fundamental aspects: the need or not to have a United Nations Security Council resolution covering all or part of the operation, the requirements and the need for the consent of the Libyan authorities with all its implications, and, finally, the definition of the legal requirements for commencing each phase of the operation. Finally, we managed to move forward with the Operations Plan that was approved on 19 June. Three days later, on 22 June, the Foreign Affairs Council agreed to start the operation in its Decision 2015/972. The initial Operations Plan envisages three distinct phases. The first, which for the time being is the only one that can be launched, is carried out in international waters, in accordance with the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. In addition to maintaining and strengthening shipwreck rescue efforts, this first phase is aimed at supporting, detecting and monitoring immigration networks through the collection of information on high seas and air patrols. In this regard, and in the light of possible doubts that might give rise to legal protection, let me clarify to you that, on the high seas, in accordance with the above-mentioned convention and applicable national and international law, States may intercept, if authorized by the flag State, vessels suspected of illicit trafficking in immigrants in order to take appropriate measures in respect of such vessels, persons and cargo - in quotation marks - carried by them. [[Rumors]] In turn, the plan envisages a second phase whose adoption and implementation has not yet been decided and which would also require a resolution of the United Nations Security Council. This second phase would be divided into two stages. The first would be aimed at addressing, registering, seizing and diverting vessels on the high seas suspected of being used for illicit trafficking in persons under the conditions provided for in international law. The second, which would require the consent of the coastal State concerned, would be to address, record, seize and divert suspicious vessels on the high seas, territorial seas or inland waters of that State, in accordance with the conditions of the United Nations Council resolution and/or the request or consent of the State concerned. [[The Lord]] Finally, the plan proposes a third phase that would also require a United Nations Security Council resolution or the consent of the coastal State. This phase would consist in taking all necessary measures against any suspicious vessel under the conditions laid down in that resolution or with the consent of the coastal State on its territory. [[Rumors]] For the time being, Member States are only planning to undertake the first phase of the operation, namely the deployment of ships and aircraft to detect migratory traffic in international waters north of Libya and south of Italy and Malta. As I have already said, the transition between stages will be subject not only to their legal coverage, but also to the political control of the Member States. Spain will continue to maintain a position of full cooperation with the mitigation and termination of this unfortunate situation. The Council of the European Union will be responsible for assessing whether the conditions for going beyond the first phase have been met..., [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u152	Excuse me, Minister. Let's take a little care of the minister. You go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. ... taking into account any applicable resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and the consent, if any, of the coastal States concerned. As for the concrete contribution of our Armed Forces, participation is planned in the headquarters activated in Rome and in the headquarters of the onboard force with a maximum of twelve military personnel. In addition, a maritime surveillance aircraft and its support units will be deployed initially. This plane will operate from the Italian bases on the island of Sicily, specifically in Sigonella. The quota for this contribution shall be no more than fifty troops. However, considering that the concept of the operation already covers the three phases mentioned above and that the very nature of the operation would not change at all, and also taking into account that the situation can evolve considerably - even immediately - during the first few weeks of its implementation - at most during the summer, we must submit to the approval of this House the future possibility of adapting this participation to include additional contributions from our Armed Forces with maritime air support at the aforementioned stages. For the second phase of the operation we envisage the use of marine means, when it occurs, of support or air, up to a maximum of 250 troops. Considering that the crew of the vessel we plan to use, frigate type, reaches about that amount, we would be talking about a vessel. Therefore, always with the requirements defined by the European Union and with the mission personnel already defined in the above-mentioned phrases, given the nature of the crisis, I consider that this level of contribution is in line with the Spanish entity within the European Union and solidarity as a Mediterranean country. Operation Eunavfor Med is part of the strategic concept of the European Union's global approach, which involves the full mobilization of all instruments and tools available to the European Union in conflict resolution. The initial duration of the mission shall be one year since its full operational capacity has been reached. The costs arising from the Spanish participation in this operation will be financed under the budget heading: participation of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping operations, appropriations 128, 228 and 668 of the budget. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of this initiative and with it the authorization of the House for the participation of the Spanish Armed Forces in the European Union military mission in the central Mediterranean of Eunavfor MED, through a contingent of twelve troops, composed of personnel of the Air Force and the Navy, to deploy both in the headquarters of the commander of the operation in Rome and in the headquarters of the commander of the force established in the Italian carrier Cavour. For this first phase, a maritime patrol and reconnaissance aircraft will also be deployed at the advanced operational base of Sigonella, with a staff of 50 people, with the corresponding means of support and support. Depending on the evolution of the situation and the possible progress of the successive phases of the operation, the Spanish participation could include the contribution by sea support or air, up to a maximum of 250 troops. This number will only be reached if it is decided to deploy a frigate-type vessel in the second and third phases of the operation. I do not want to make assumptions or probabilities, but I will tell you that the decisions about Spanish participation in the second phase depend on several factors, of course our main will based on objective criteria, but also various variables that depend on the work we share with our partners and allies, such as power generation conferences. Finally, and like any record of participation of Spanish troops in missions abroad, the Government also requests the corresponding authorization to make such minor adjustments, obviously necessary in the theatre, according to the operational conditions that would arise at any given time and the specific situations that might arise. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, with a single objective, as I said to you at the beginning, which has had all of our international missions throughout the legislature. It is a question of providing security and extending the capacity to provide security also to those countries which for various reasons, almost all similar, are incapable of defending the lives of their citizens. They are countries where living with dignity becomes extremely difficult and which must be helped. This situation not only threatens their lives and prevents them from having a future, but directly and indirectly constitutes one of the main risks to our own security and to world peace. For an exercise of realism, responsibility and solidarity I ask you to support the proposal of the Government that I have just presented. Finally, I would like to tell you that in the first phase the plane and the deployment of the Spanish troops, both in the headquarters and in the carrier Cavour, would be for one year, which would be the duration of the phase, and the initial cost would be the total cost, which we estimate would be 15.3 million euros. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u154	Thank you very much, Minister of Defence. Let's go to the group position-fixing shift. Firstly, for the Socialist Group, I have the floor for Mr Diego López Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, our vote in favour of the Eunavfor Med mission, the first phase of intelligence and research, is a critical and demanding vote for the European Union and for the Government of Spain. It is a positive vote because we share the objectives of this first phase of the Eunavfor Med mission. The fight against the mafia is a priority in the face of this very serious humanitarian crisis which is taking place in the Mediterranean, preferably in the Central and Southern Mediterranean, and a mission of these characteristics needs the European Union, which can only be carried out by an agency such as the European Union. But it is also a critical position, because it has to be complemented by urgent actions, essentially by two urgent actions. The first is to save lives. You have given tremendous, unacceptable and frightening figures of deaths in the Mediterranean last year and this year, in addition to an upward progression. The second action is to protect refugees, to protect asylum seekers. Without these two urgent actions, saving lives and protecting refugees, the mission we are debating today could become a mere blockade for those people who seek to be welcomed, fleeing from terrible conflicts such as those in Syria or Iraq. Right now we have 60 million refugees in the world, more than at any time after World War II. The main problem is that of refugees, above and beyond economic immigration. Frontex estimates that 80% of migrants arriving in Europe are persons who are likely to apply for and obtain international protection - i.e. the protection of the refugee's status -, who essentially arrive in Italy and Greece. Frontex's data on the number of arrivals is impressive. Last year, 280,000 people arrived irregularly in the Union, most of them 170,000, in the Central Mediterranean, where Italy and Malta are located. It is an increase of 164 % compared to 2013, with an increasing trend. In the first half of this year, the number of arrivals has tripled. Only by looking at the numbers of Syrian refugees is one explained this unprecedented situation in the last fifty, sixty or seventy years. In Syria, which has 22 million inhabitants, half -11 or 12 million - are outside their homes; approximately 8 million are displaced within Syria and 4 million are displaced and refugees outside Syria, in camps such as those in Jordan, Lebanon or Turkey. Mrs Rodríguez-Salmones and I visited some of them in Jordan and the show was absolutely frightening. This is not a short-term conflict. This is a long-term structural problem, where humanitarian aid is clearly insufficient. The UN estimates that only 25% of refugees' needs are currently being met in areas such as health, food, education, social services and work. We must certainly face the causes of this situation, but we must also urgently face the effects, as these people are not going to come back home and many of them look to Europe and want to get to it. The weight, the burden of these asylum applications in Europe, is absolutely unequal at the moment. For example, of the 600,000 asylum-seekers in the European Union last year, 300,000 were examined by Sweden. Only Sweden took care of half. Four or five countries of the Union bear the burden of 72% of asylum applications and of those less precisely Spain. Spain examines a very small number of asylum applications and grants even fewer asylum statutes. The Commission has proposed - we have known this for a few weeks now - that 60,000 asylum seekers should be welcomed over these two years by the countries of the Union. In a compulsory relocation programme for 40,000 people, Spain is requested to accommodate 4,288 people in two years. In a voluntary resettlement programme, Spain is asked to accommodate 1,549 people. That is to say, Spain is being asked, compared with the figures of millions and millions of refugees in the world, to welcome in two years less than 6,000 refugees, and the Spanish Government, in a show of solidarity, has said no. Together with Austria, Spain is taking the glory at this time of being the most insolidary government in Europe. He said no, he has not committed to any figures for hosting refugees, together with Austria. All the other countries of the Union have done so, but Spain and Austria do not seem to be doing too much - and that is absolutely unacceptable. The argument, completely reactionary and also false, of the Spanish Minister of the Interior is that that, to attend to refugees, would produce an effect called, but if we look at the data of the last few years, we realize that it is exactly the opposite. The European Union has changed Operation Mare Nostrum, Italian, which was dedicated to saving people at sea, by Operation Triton, which has a goal not so much of rescue as of protecting borders. According to this theory of the so-called effect, the fact of having changed the operation Mare Nostrum, which was much more open, aimed at saving lives - it managed to save many lives in the Mediterranean - by a more closed one, with another objective other than that of saving lives, rather than that of guarding borders, would have had to have diminished the number of refugees, because there would have been the action of giving up those who thought to go on that path from the shelter to Europe. Well, that has not happened, but quite the opposite. The number of immigrants has increased, the number of refugees, nothing to do with the subject of the so-called effect. The European Council called for an effective asylum policy in March, but there is still no asylum policy in Europe, and it is therefore important for the Spanish Government to implement things that are being proposed by, for example, the Spanish Refugee Aid Commission: that asylum can be sought in embassies and consulates in countries of origin and transit, that there are humanitarian visas, that transit visas are not required for those coming from a country in conflict and that resettlements are not agreed with countries that violate human rights. We demand from the Government of Spain that by the 20th day - that there will be a meeting in the European Union - in addition to implementing the Eunavfor Med mission, instead of blocking and preventing, facilitating, respecting and enforcing one of the most important human rights in the history of humanity yesterday and today, the right of asylum, for those who only call for solidarity with Europe in the worst situation in which a human being can be found. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. López Garrido. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d ́Unió has the floor in the first place Mr Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about politics. This morning the President of the Government in his conclusions of the European Council highlighted the lack of a common European security policy. And it is true, we had a reactive policy in Operation Atalanta in the face of piracy and in this case we have a reactive policy in Operation Eunavfor Mediterranean in the face of the insufficiency and overflow of Frontex mechanisms. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour unconditionally, but these are not just military measures. There are currently 60 million displaced people in the world, the largest number since World War II, which has increased by 8.3 million since the end of 2013, the largest increase in a single year, and the United Nations numbers 137,000 people who have crossed the Mediterranean in the first seven months of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, this measure is not just aimed - as the Government's communication says - at dealing with a drama in the middle and east of the Mediterranean. When we talk about displaced persons, refugees, humanitarian drama, we are also talking about what we have at the gates, what we have near and what we have inside, we are talking about the 2,000 overcrowded in the CETI of Melilla. For this reason, when we talk about the Syrian refugees, we are not only talking about the migratory pressure in Libya, we are also talking about the reality in the reception centers in Spain, of the 67,500 in Italy and the 68,000 in Greece. I think it is relevant that for the first time Greece has outperformed Italy in the reception of refugees, an 83% increase over the previous year. There have been 1,900 deaths trying to cross the Mediterranean during 2015 and more than 22,000 deaths - it is good to remember - since 2000. But, ladies and gentlemen, only 2% of the migrants who come from Libya are Libyans; the majority come from the Sahel - as the Minister has pointed out - or from Syria. These are necessarily complementary proposals. We say yes to the operational resources at sea that we are going to vote on today, but we also consider it necessary for European coordination against human trafficking and a review of the Dublin regulation, with a view to sharing responsibilities and costs in order to be able to deal with the arrival of irregular immigrants and asylum seekers and quota distribution in the European Union, according to the population and economic resources. We are in favour of the European Union proposal. As the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees very rightly proposes, we must increase legal alternatives to migration channels through resettlement, military reunification and entry mechanisms. We must not close our eyes only with this mechanism to prevent shipwrecks on the high seas. [[The lady]] Obviously, after the good news about the reconciliation agreement in Libya between the two governments - as your ladies and gentlemen are well aware, they are two governments but three areas of influence and one area of southern Libya with a clear influence from Chad - we support the reconstruction of institutionality in Libya. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr López Garrido pointed out, 80% of migrants are not migrants for economic reasons but for political reasons, they are political refugees. They are Syrians, Afghans, Somalis who flee from wars; they are Eritreans who flee from an atrocious political regime. In view of this reality, a political response must be given and the political response is not coordinated at European level, because there are European countries that have a strong tradition of receiving political asylum. This is the case in Sweden, with more than 5,000 political asylum seekers from the conflict in Syria, or in Spain, which, two years late at the end - and this is a debate that does not correspond to the Minister of Defence but to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior - has accommodated 241 asylum seekers. Ladies and gentlemen, let's support...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u158	Mr. Xuclà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u159	I'm done, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, we support this mission. As was recalled with the Balkan conflict in the late 1990s, peace is sometimes armed and requires instruments from security and defence policy, but we also need the complementary measures we have tried to expose to them for an area of the world - I conclude, Madam President - with the highest gap between poverty and wealth after North and South Korea, the area of the northern and southern shores of the Mediterranean, and this is what we are talking about this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u160	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. Mr Barberà has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the request of the Council of Ministers for authorisation by this House for the deployment and participation of the Armed Forces in the European Union military operation in the southern central Mediterranean. This request follows the Common Foreign and Security Policy decision adopted by the Council of the European Union on 18 May 2015. This decision is based on a firm commitment to act in order to avoid human tragedies resulting from the illicit trafficking of persons in the Mediterranean. It was agreed to mobilize all efforts at its disposal to prevent the continued loss of life at sea. It is necessary to address in depth the various causes that provoke and converge in this human drama, always counting on the countries of origin and those of transit. Without a doubt, the immediate priority is to avoid more deaths at sea. There are three axes to be developed in order to achieve the objective as a whole: firstly, to strengthen the European Union's presence at sea; secondly, to prevent the flow of illegal emigration and, thirdly, to strengthen solidarity and internal responsibility. For the first two axes and to combat trafficking in persons networks, it was decided to carry out systematic work on the detection, capture and destruction of vessels before they were used by human traffickers or border crossings. To this end, preparations for an operation of the common security and defence policy were requested. It was clear that the operation was legally part of the conventions that require people at risk to be assisted at sea and to take survivors to a safe place. To this end, the assigned ships will be ready and equipped to carry out these humanitarian tasks. The general articulation of the operation is described in phases and corresponds to the decision taken by the Council of the European Union. This time, Minister, you describe the maximum number of staff and the duration of one year from the reach of full operational capacity. For this reason, the Members of the European Parliament and the Members of the European Union will vote in favour of the request, which complies with a Council decision. [[The lady]] but we intervened to express our concern about a humanitarian problem. The different data presented by previous speakers reflect that so far there are many problems in the care of refugees. So far, more than a thousand refugees or displaced persons have died or disappeared at sea - the figures have varied according to the spokesman who has said them. We know that this displacement of people is being driven by pressure factors that force them to leave their homes, pressure factors that range from the brutal war in Syria to the difficulties of surviving under oppressive dictatorships. We know that mostly refugees have a strong reason to flee their country, their home and their roots. They flee their countries for fear of losing their lives and those of their families; they are very aware of the risks they will have to overcome by fleeing and they know the dangers of staying in the hands of human traffickers or border crossings, but, ladies and gentlemen, they prefer to face any risk of suffering what awaits them if they stay in their places of origin. The measures we adopt today are certainly necessary, but they do not represent a definitive solution to the needs of the displaced. People will continue to risk their lives until there is a safe alternative to escape the horror in which they live day by day. The European Union is politically debating how it assumes its responsibility in the face of this tragedy. The controversial distribution of asylum seekers among European countries is being agreed; we know that the issue of migration raises contradictions. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that a European agreement is necessary in order to provide a satisfactory solution from solidarity and respect for human dignity. We recall and stress that humanism is a basic pillar in the construction of the European project and this humanitarian crisis requires the application of these founding principles. Although the pressure can be relaxed, because the deaths of foreigners trying to cross the Mediterranean have been reduced, we cannot prolong this decision over time, because this reduction is largely due to the increase in the number of assets allocated to border surveillance and rescue missions. Ladies and gentlemen, launching attacks on smuggling networks will not serve as a definitive solution to the human tragedy we are living in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u162	Mr. Barberà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u163	It is necessary, and we believe so in the Democratic Union, to give people who fear for their lives and are pushed to flee possible and safe solutions or alternatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u164	Thank you, Mr. Barberà. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u165	Minister, just a month ago a motion was being debated in this House, on the proposal of our parliamentary group, which brought four blocks of measures to tackle the humanitarian tragedy in the Mediterranean, a motion which the group supporting your Government voted against. It is a drama that, as you have already recalled, has its origins primarily in two issues. The first is the multiple conflicts and the permanent violation of human rights that plagues the countries of origin of those who suffer them. A second element, which has not been overlooked, but whose approach, defended by you in this rostrum, we do not share at all, is the existence of failed States, such as Libya, which are nothing more than the fruit of a hypocritical and nefarious policy of military interventionism that has made them a kind of aircraft carrier for the mafias, which is what is happening in this particular case. For a month to date - not by focusing on Libya, but by passing on to Greece - this drama, far from being overcome, has increased. In Greece, every day that passes, 1,000 people enter through the Mediterranean fleeing their country, which is mainly Syria. As we did then, we will focus our intervention on the needs of these people, of these victims. We do not want to use them as an excuse to deepen an impossible model - which is why the European Union is betting on - of enshrining, shielding and sealing borders, which will not make it impossible, ladies and gentlemen, for those thousands of people who come, trying to get out of their countries in conflict, to stop doing so. Minister, today he appeals to this grave humanitarian situation to call for the support of this House for military intervention against the smuggling of human beings, but he does so again by falling into topical issues - then I will explain to him why he considers it so The Plural Left - and exclusively from the point of view of our theoretical security and not of the security of those affected, because it relegates to the last place the facet of rescue and rescue of that operation. It is precisely from this rostrum that you have recognized the complexities involved in resolving this issue in order to ensure the protection of these refugees, which we appreciate, as it could not be otherwise. He asks us for the support to deepen this shielding policy, which will not prevent, as he said, people from escaping from a country at war. It proposes a military operation whose ultimate and primary objective is to identify, capture and eliminate - and I literally read what the agreement says - vessels that are suspected to be used by human traffickers. I ask you, Minister, what is going to happen to the people who run away and who are inside. You have said that and we have to thank you for your clarity in recognizing that it has been a complicated element and that it is going to be safeguarded and that it is not going to be allowed to be returned to the countries of origin, but it is an issue that we are very concerned about and that we have to place on the table. And we are not only concerned about us, also non-governmental organizations and even the United Nations High Commissioner, who recalled the need for a robust search and rescue operation as a first objective, accompanied by alternative and credible measures to these journeys of death that are turning the Mediterranean into a true common pit. We understand and share that they are moved, we are all - 137,000 people have had to flee their land, between 20,000 and 22,500 have died during the last fifteen years and between 1,500 and 1,850 have died during this 2015 - but we believe that beyond that sensitivity, our Government and, above all, the European Union - there we do agree that this issue is shared - have a clear responsibility to what is happening. That responsibility, in our view, is not fulfilled solely by such measures, let alone by mistaking the view that solutions are being sought. I say this to you because we are not faced with what you call irregular immigrants, Minister, but with citizens who in 80% of cases are in a position to apply for asylum, and not with the Plural Left, says the European Agency for Border Cooperation itself, says Frontex. These data have been confirmed by the International Organization for Migration and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. These data certify that these people who risk their lives trying to reach Europe are people to whom Europe should legally recognize the right to asylum under the international conventions that the Member States of the Union have signed in the area of protection and asylum. We believe that this mission, if addressed only in its military facet, will not solve the problem. You present this operation as a solution to prevent deaths from continuing at sea and to address the root causes of the human drama we face. I ask you whether this intention is compatible with the statements of Minister Fernández Díaz, when you say that rescue and rescue operations have a so-called effect, or with the attitude of the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself, who has repeatedly refused to implement the Commission's plan for resettlement places for Syrian refugees and quotas for the distribution of asylum seekers who arrived in Italy and Greece from April this year. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not put more measures in place, military intervention will only divert the flow of these people fleeing the war - and they will continue to do so - to other points of the coast and, moreover, using more precarious means to try to reach Europe. If we do not put other measures in place, we will put the most vulnerable at risk. We again put on the table the need to facilitate legal and secure access to Europe. This, first, would put an end to the mafia and, secondly, would give security to the people who are victims of this situation. None of them abandon and play their lives with their children on an old and overloaded boat for free, minister; all do so because they need to flee. From that perspective of shelter, Spain and Europe have an obligation, an obligation which Mr Rajoy has not put on the table either when he spoke about this issue this morning. As I was telling you, we put in place a series of measures. Let me remind you of those who were trying in the first instance to tackle the problems faced by these refugees in their country's flight and entry into reception. You are trying to solve this by military means, and we are very much afraid that if this is not addressed from another more comprehensive perspective, the only thing that will provoke these people is that they will find many more problems to leave their country, a country at war. From the Plural Left we propose strict compliance with the Asylum and Subsidiary Protection Act. Today we are failing to comply with that law. [[The Lord]] If it is already shameful that the distribution of refugees is carried out in accordance with the policy of quotas, Minister, it is more shameful to see that in our country a person is applying for asylum, it can take up to seven months to receive an appointment and that, in the meantime, and thanks to its law, which allows for hot returns, it can be arrested and sent out of the country. In the face of your shielding policy, Minister, we also proposed to expand the network of asylum offices at all border crossings. Finally, and in relation to the measure under discussion, from La Izquierda Plural we proposed the launch of an effective rescue and rescue operation by strengthening resettlement programmes. Today you bring us an operation whose primary and fundamental objective is not to rescue people and provide them with due attention, but to end those vessels that are likely to engage in human trafficking, distorting an objective that I and my group consider to be shared by all others. We would have shared the need for a rescue and rescue operation; even if this agreement resulted in a determined and clear commitment to open safe routes for the exit of refugees or for the fulfilment of asylum policies, resettlement and family reunification, we would also have supported this measure, we would have done so. Unfortunately, this measure will not solve the problems of those fleeing the war and will not end the mafias who are enriched by this tragedy. It will help to strengthen the European Union's border shielding policy and to increase the military presence in the Mediterranean in a timely manner at a particularly critical time in the region. I would like to take back a few words from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees as a closure - and I have already announced that my group is going to abstain in this vote - which said: Europe has a clear responsibility to help those seeking protection from war and persecution. Denying this responsibility is threatening the very foundations of the humanitarian system that Europe has worked so hard to build. I invite everyone to reflect on whether what we are discussing today strengthens these principles or not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, go ahead and our parliamentary group, UPyD, will vote in favour of the request for authorization by the Congress of Deputies for the deployment and participation of the Armed Forces in the European Union military operation in the southern central Mediterranean. But let us put into context what we are discussing here for those outside this Chamber who are seeing this debate on television or on the Internet and for those who, despite the minister's lengthy intervention, have not been clear on the subject. This is a European Union military response initiative within the framework of the common foreign and security policy to control illegal migratory flows across the Mediterranean, especially, but not exclusively, from the failed State of Libya, which includes the possibility of preventive attacks against the bases of organized crime groups operating on the Libyan coast or in other countries. It has the legal support of the UN and derives from an initiative of the European Mediterranean countries, including Spain. It also faces the difficulty of militarizing the response to illegal immigration, and is likely to contradict some of Frontex's initiatives in the Mediterranean. But there is the positive experience that this type of military initiative had against the piracy groups operating off the coast of Somalia that have been largely dismantled. The situation in the Mediterranean has become unsustainable. Over the past 15 years, it has become a cemetery for more than 22,000 migrants and refugees looking for a new opportunity on the European continent. In 2014, 3,400 people died trying to reach the European coast, many of them fleeing humanitarian crises caused by wars and conflicts such as those in Syria, South Sudan, Somalia, Eritrea, Yemen or Libya itself. As far as the year goes, the estimated number of people who have lost their lives at sea exceeds 1,900; a figure that could increase over the next few months, as, encouraged by the good weather, a greater number of people go to sea to try to reach Europe, putting their lives in grave danger. There is therefore a growing need for a substantial and urgent increase in maritime search, rescue and rescue operations, as well as a substantial change in European immigration, refugee and asylum policies. People need safe and legal ways to escape from conflict zones; there are very few safe and legal channels that they can choose to get to the protection and safety of the European coasts. With Europe's land borders sealed by very restrictive migration policies, many people end up being forced to fall overcrowded into the hands of unscrupulous smugglers; even before reaching that point, many have made long and risky land trips under conditions that threaten their lives. The restrictive migration policies of Europe that we have mentioned before mean that, by omission, we are putting some of these most vulnerable people, the most vulnerable people in the world, in even greater danger, causing them more suffering if they can. Europe and transit countries have a responsibility to ensure that their policies guarantee the right to seek asylum and respect human dignity. In this regard, since UPyD we believe that as many measures as are necessary for the restoration of operations specifically aimed at preserving people's lives through the active search, rescue and rescue of human beings at sea, in line with Operation Mare Nostrum, of proven effectiveness. Bet within the European Commission on the opening of new channels to facilitate legal and therefore safe access for immigrants and asylum seekers on the territory of the European Union. To substantially increase the current quota for resettlement of refugees in Spain, in line with the proposals and criteria of the European Union, in line with the Acnur recommendations, supported by the International Organization for Migration and by different humanitarian entities, and to participate in the proposals for relocation of persons in need of international protection, who have already arrived in numerous groups in some countries of the Union, according to the mechanisms that the EU itself has established to activate in crisis situations. To this end, it is also important to ensure adequate means and resources to ensure the correct reception and integration of these refugees, and particularly for those most vulnerable, including the request for funds from the European Union, which makes available a budget line for these quotas. To promote within the European Union a truly harmonised policy on immigration, asylum and shelter, as well as a management of migration flows that focuses on addressing the challenges in countries of origin and transit of refugees and immigrants seeking to reach Europe, not only from the perspective of border security, but also from the perspective of the drive for human, social, institutional and economic development, the promotion of democracy and fundamental rights and the generation of opportunities in those countries through coherent policies that effectively facilitate development cooperation. Thus, in collecting and finalizing, we believe that the proposal we are debating today does not offer guarantees for the Mediterranean case given the coincidence of armed conflicts in the region. We also believe that there are a number of measures that we have just outlined that would address immigration from a global perspective and that the Spanish Government could commit itself to promoting and implementing. However, this operation at least demonstrates the political will of the European Union and the world's major military powers to solve the problem of illegal immigration into the Mediterranean, not only civil but also military, and we therefore reiterate that our group will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u168	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. Mr Agirretxea has the floor for the Vasco PNV Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government brings us to this House today the request that we authorize the deployment and participation of the Armed Forces in the European Union military operation in the southern central Mediterranean, the so-called Eunavfor Med. A lot has been said by other speakers about the human drama - I am not going to do it - the thousands of deaths that the Mediterranean has taken in this dramatic situation. We are talking about an agreement that the European Union has taken and unfortunately - and unfortunately I repeat - the European Union has again moved from points to points over the real and bloody problem that some countries are experiencing in Africa and that, within the consequences that this problem generates, what has been done is to seek palliative measures, which are not solutions, through military actions. I am not saying that what is going to be done does not have to be done, but we all agree that this is not the only thing that needs to be done. The consequences are limited, but you do not go to the bottom of the issue once again, and you can say: And to me what you tell me!, I am the Minister of Defense. And you're right, no one's going to question the suitability of the surveillance plane you're going to bring in or whether there must be 25 or 50 soldiers in Rome headquarters. In other words, it is not a matter of discussing technical or strictly military issues, but of going to the bottom of the matter. I therefore say that this is a matter for the Government, not just the Ministry of Defence. The fundamental criticism that my group is making of this decision is a criticism of the Government, as a representative to the European Union, because it is either unwilling or unable to make the excessive effort to tackle the problem in its global dimension. Someone mentioned it, and I think it's important. It is not a question of creating more and more walls because we already have enough walls, and it seems that this Government likes walls and fences very much, nor is it a question of punishing those who, unfortunately, fleeing from barbarism, enter into the unknown and into dramatic conditions because it cannot be worse than what it leaves behind. Imagine what it must be like to be able to get into that dramatic barbarity, those ghost ships, those death ships that walk through the Mediterranean. We cannot try to deceive ourselves, Minister, by making ourselves believe that by attacking illicit trafficking networks we solve the problem. That must be done, no doubt always, of course, and better if we had done it yesterday rather than tomorrow, but there are more things. Mr. López Garrido said he has to have two fundamental objectives and I would say three. I agree with the first two that are saving lives and protecting refugees, but there is a third that is doing something to solve the political and military problem of refugee-emitting countries because, after all, if there were no such problem in those countries, the rest would not be so serious because it would not happen that way. In the document which the Government has submitted, in the application for authorization, I have not seen a line or a priori, that is, why this is happening, nor the a posteriori. What about the human beings who flee, who are treated, boarded and left drifting in the Mediterranean? What do we do with them? Are we going to put them back in hell? Because there's a lot of ways to get them back to hell. The Minister has said that the European Union has taken the decision not to do so and I am glad that it has. We are talking about tackling the problem, on the one hand, politically and, on the other, humanitarianly and, as a complement, militarily, but not in the pre-eminent place. If we are to solve this problem, we must first approach the political situation in States that are no longer in existence. Therefore, who will be the interlocutor of the European Union in order to be able to carry out the points two and three that you reflect in this authorisation? Some of those called coastal States are destroyed. What authority do they have? What organization do they have? Are you going to talk to Libya? With Eritrea? If we really talk about the people who board these death ships, we are basically talking about Sudanese, Eritrean, Iraqi, Syrian and in some cases even Afghan refugees. We continue to think that the European Union has not wanted to inflate its teeth to this problem and you have responsibility for your part as representatives and part of the European Union. Has the Government suggested any action to resolve the wasper in the region? Someone will say that this is an issue that should be answered by the Foreign Minister. Perhaps the Foreign Minister should have answered. By the way, the request is signed by the two ministers, both for defence and for foreign affairs. Any solution beyond guarding our front door? In the background, it seems that what is intended here is that at least the gateway to Europe is controlled. We can read articles and reports that have been done about what people are suffering on these ships, how they are boarded, the money they pay, how they are tricked and then left drifting by dialing with a phone that detects the GPS of the nearest coastguard. Those who have rented the boat escape, after making them pay more than 5,000 euros to each crew member, leaving them drifting. This situation obviously needs to be resolved, but we are talking about a human drama and with these people we must do something. Therefore, looking above is not solving the problem. We must be more ambitious, bolder and more comprehensive; and when I say it in its entirety, I say it in the sense of analyzing and solving things in an integral and not in part. It is a truly dramatic problem and I believe that the European Union has an important responsibility. This is one more step and I hope that the Government will propose solutions to tackle this human tragedy, as it is first about saving lives, protecting refugees and seeking political solutions in the places that need it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u170	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 60 million displaced people throughout the African continent and the Middle East and, as Acnur tells us and as Mr López Garrido reminded us, 80% are potential asylum seekers. By the way, MP López Garrido will also have an interest in remembering - and, of course, Minister Morenes - that in the last thirty years the Spanish State has welcomed both refugees and Germany in a year, in 2014. We are talking about 180,000 refugees in Spain in the last 30 years and 200,645 in Germany alone in 2014, which should make us think of everyone, especially the ruling parties in the last 30 years. In fact, the Spanish State receives 0.9 % of all asylum applications made in the European Union. No wonder. I myself and many of you were rapporteurs and we discussed the latest Asylum Act, and we agreed that it was one of the most restrictive in Europe and that is why we did not vote in favour of it. Minister Morenes tells us about values, and one tends not to believe it, because how can we talk about values if we have one of the toughest foreign laws? It is true that what some democracies have done, perhaps somewhat hypocritically, is to legislate very restrictive alien laws by making up for it with very progressive asylum laws. But in the Spanish case, the Aliens Act is restrictive and the Asylum Act is shameful. Now that the alarms ring, you call for somaten and the militarization of humanitarian aid. Given this spiral, you must know that all this will evolve in crescendo as long as you do not deny the policy that gives priority to economic, commercial and geopolitical interests. If politics were different, they would stabilize the scenarios and could guarantee the inhabitants of those territories a minimally dignified life; otherwise, there will be no solution. In fact, it has already been signed today, and it is data from the International Organization for Migration, which are going to die drowned this year 2015 in the Mare Mortum 30,000 people. This is so, it is already calculated and extrapolation has been made. This is why we will not support your demand for participation in scheduled missions. Moreover, we tell them that there can only be a glimpse of a solution if they are able to do five things, at least. First, to provide Frontex with much more resources, in order to carry out the rescue tasks of the victims. Not to the mi-li-ta-ri-za-tion of the processes and to put an end to this abandonment of responsibilities. Secondly, to provide more resources for asylum and asylum policies. Thirdly, to put an end to the hypocrisy of the European Union's externalisation policies, because they are only trying to transfer the problem to third countries. Fourthly, non-military intervention in countries that then end up failing. We must remember the illegal war in Iraq and the intervention in Libya - I refer to the debates that took place in this Parliament -. And finally, that the cooperation funds really serve for cooperation, because they are now being used to keep satraps in order to control migration, or to be able to finance centres for the internment of migrants in transit countries. These are the true values that could be translated into political action, and not what the Minister of War, who is even more mi-li-ta-ri-zar, demands of us.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u173	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, Operation Eunavfor Med presents it textually as a solution to prevent the continuing deaths at sea and to address the root causes of the human tragedy we face. We are convinced that military solutions will not serve to address the root causes of the human tragedy we face, that - do not forget - in the case of Syrian, Afghan or Somali refugees are wars in their respective countries, or, in the case of Eritreans, the very harsh dictatorship from which they flee. Military intervention will only manage to divert this flow of people fleeing the war to other points of the coast and the use of other more precarious means to continue trying to reach Europe, turning their journey into much more dangerous, if any, than it is now. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Border Control Agency itself, Frontex, recognises that the vast majority of immigrants - 80% - who risk their lives trying to reach Europe are not economic immigrants, but refugees or possible refugees who should receive international protection, and to whom Europe should legally recognize that right in application of the international conventions signed by the Member States on protection and asylum, including the Spanish State. While this is the case, the Spanish Government's action at the June European Council, as well as the meeting in Luxembourg on 9 July last, has been embarrassing and completely lacking in commitment. At the moment, there are two countries throughout Europe that have prevented the closure of a distribution of potential refugees arriving in Italy and Greece; one is Spain, demonstrating that spirit that already appears in the law gag or in the reform of the Law of Universal Justice. The Secretary-General himself of the United Nations expressed his concern about this European Union operation in order, in principle, to combat the trafficking of immigrants in the Mediterranean; and not only Mr. Ban Ki-moon, but many associations that work and know this area well and believe that the priority is to save lives and offer humanitarian assistance. In that connection, you will understand that, at least, this measure, this proposal, is controversial to us and that the Spanish State's unconditional support for this action is contradictory, as long as it continues to prevent the agreement on the distribution of refugees from being closed. The BNG understands that repressive measures and the militarised response of the EU will not stop the waves of migration that have very deep causes. In fact, every time repressive measures were taken and an attempt was made to block a migratory route, another one was immediately opened; neither the ever-higher fences or walls, nor the indignant concertinas managed to reduce the flow of immigrants. What has been achieved is that these flows enter Europe through increasingly dangerous and risky routes. Priors, such as Operation Mare Nostrum, launched by Italy, did not prevent more than 150,000 immigrants from being rescued in that operation. And with the European operation Triton, which replaced the failure of Operation Mare Nostrum, since the end of 2014 we have already seen that the number of deaths in the Mediterranean has not been reduced. For us, this new operation is also not intended to solve, or even to alleviate, the situation of thousands of people who, in desperation, launch themselves across the sea, but its fundamental objective is to prevent those people from even leaving the coasts of Africa, so that they do not even have to be rescued. The economic resources that this operation is going to take, in our opinion, of course, would be much more justified - I conclude, Mr President - if they were intended to save lives and to provide humanitarian protection and asylum to the thousands of people who arrive on the European coast. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support the proposal before us. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Pérez Fernández. For the People's Group, Mr Ferrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to add to our sympathy for the death of the civil guard in Almería. At this very moment in which I address all of you, and in complying with the agreements of this House, our country has displaced troops from the Army and the Navy to Afghanistan, Lebanon, Iraq or the Horn of Africa, to cite a few examples. The men and women of our Armed Forces take this effort and risk their lives because the Congress of Deputies - we, ladies and gentlemen - estimated that this served the interests of Spain, fulfilled our international commitments and contributed to peace and stability in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government is asking Parliament to allow our military to participate actively in the operation designed by the European Union to combat the migratory mafia in the Mediterranean. It does so for the same reasons that justified sending our forces to overseas on previous occasions. I'll try to prove it. Ladies and gentlemen, we served Spain's legitimate interests in Afghanistan, Lebanon or Iraq and were situations thousands and thousands of miles from our territory. Well, if in these cases the distance was not an excuse for the House to understand that national interests were at stake and that, therefore, our Armed Forces should participate in the operation, in conflicts that posed a distant but direct threat, either to the security of Spain, to world stability or simply for humanitarian reasons, it seems more logical and reasonable that we should act decisively when the scene of the problem, of the tragedy, is the Mediterranean Sea, which does not need to be remembered to bathe our shores, when one of the focus of that problem is just 14 kilometres from Tarifa or Punta Carnero, when we are barely separated from Ceuta or Melilla. I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that the second of the reasons that justified sending out expeditionary bodies was to make our international commitments good and in any case to be loyal to our allies. Well, this is an operation of the European Union and it is a European operation because it is a European problem that we are facing. It is true that Spain is directly affected by the issue because our country is a destination of illegal immigration through the Mediterranean and has been for some time in a preferential way, but illegal immigration through the Mediterranean is not a question of Spain, Italy, Malta or Greece, just as eastern immigration is not a problem of Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria or Romania. This is a clearly European problem, which affects us all in the same way, for which we are all responsible and for which the Union must give a solution, a clearly European response. In 2014, we received 600,000 legal immigrants. In the first six months of this year and only through the Mediterranean it is estimated that they have reached our shores about 150,000, 83% more than in the same period last year. This is undoubtedly, as I said, one of the most serious problems affecting Europe, which is the same as it is affecting our homeland, Spain, and we cannot therefore turn our backs on it. We must act shoulder to shoulder with our partners and do so within the framework of the common policies of the European Union. The third of the reasons I spoke to them was international solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in the Mediterranean is a tragedy, a humanitarian crisis of unusual proportions. It is estimated that 25,000 people, many of them women and children, have lost their lives swallowed by the ocean trying to reach our shores in recent years, 1,700 more in the first four months of 2015, of which 850 I remind them that they died in a single shipwreck. These figures, ladies and gentlemen, respond to the disasters we have witnessed; the real dimension of tragedy is a secret that today hides the sea. The operation for which the Government is requesting authorization today is not directed against illegal immigration; quite the contrary, it is primarily aimed at rescuing shipwrecks. This has been demonstrated by the Minister in his speech. The operation aims to put an end to those who trade in the desperation and dreams of these people, with the mafias who, taking advantage of the vacuum of power, use the coasts of Libya to overwhelm thousands of people whose fate on too many occasions is death. It intends to put an end to the criminal organizations, which have pocketed €16 billion in the last fifteen years with this inhumane and repugnant traffic. We can't give it another minute without risking our passivity becoming accomplices to that monstrosity. Finally, your ladies and gentlemen are aware that uncontrolled human trafficking between North Africa and our coasts constitutes a serious threat to Europe's collective security. Libya is today the main base of operations of jihadism in the Mediterranean area and the illegal trafficking of immigrants, the easiest method to infiltrate terrorists in the countries of the Union. I do not think the question requires further explanation. I would not like to end without making some brief reference to some of the comments I have heard. First of all, don Diego, you're such a pain in the ass. I have come to talk about the operation for the persecution of the mafias involved in the trafficking of immigrants, as well as in their rescue and, if I do not care, your lordship drags me into a debate on asylum, which you will understand is not today's debate in any case. However, as you are well aware there is a process of sharing in the European Union, we are taking part in that process and of course we will assume the outcome and the agreement that is reached, but we must not do so in haste. In any case, we will be faster than our European partners were when - and you will remember it well - we saw tens of thousands of immigrants on the coast of the Canary Islands and, however, did not come very quickly to be in solidarity with the Spanish problem. We will be faster and more supportive, do not have the slightest doubt. Don Álvaro, the first thing he has shown is that it was a ransom without return, and of course the fight against the mafias. We can't forget this. On the other hand, many of you have spoken about the problem at source. Illegal immigration in these cases, ladies and gentlemen, is a consequence of war or hunger. If your ladies and gentlemen know the solution to either of the two problems, I announce that humanity has been looking for them for approximately 10,000 years. If you could make us a piece of paper, we would be grateful for a barbarity, but in the meantime, of the 60 million political refugees referred to by Mr Tardà or of the 2 billion that will inhabit the African continent by 2040, how many do you think we should welcome in Europe? How many do you think is reasonable, 2,000, 1,500, 600 million, how many? I say this because, if we do not make that clear, talking about solidarity and all the speeches I have heard here this afternoon is very easy. But I tell you we're willing, how many do you want us to welcome, Your Honor? I have to remember that Spain is absolutely solidarity. We are in Iraq or Afghanistan precisely to contribute to the stabilization of those countries and to somehow stop that flow that we cannot control at the moment. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to finish my speech without thanking you for the positive vote that the majority of you have shown. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u176	Thank you very much, Mr Ferrer, for your speech. Mr. Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to thank the parliamentary groups that have supported this operation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. In two minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u179	We shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Antoni Such, I ask Dona Talía Roselló if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u180	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u181	In place of Don Federico Buyolo, I ask Don Baltasar Ortiz if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u182	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u183	In place of Don Conrad Escobar, I ask dona María del Carmen Duque if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u184	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u185	Dona Talía Roselló, don Baltasar Ortiz and dona María del Carmen Duque have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u186	Agreement setting out the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for the general government as a whole and for each of its subsectors for the period 2016-2018 and the non-financial expenditure ceiling of the State budget for 2016. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 322 plus 1 telematic vote, 323; in favour, 174 plus 1 telematic vote, 175; against, 148.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u187	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u188	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 9/2015 of 10 July 2015 of urgent measures to reduce the tax burden borne by taxpayers of personal income tax and other economic measures. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 316 plus 1 telematic vote, 317; in favour, 180 plus 1 telematic vote, 181; against, 114; abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u189	It's validated. Processing as a bill by the urgency procedure of the royal decree-law that we have just voted on. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 316 plus 1 telematic vote, 317; in favour, 142; against, 173 plus 1 telematic vote, 174; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u190	It will not be treated as a bill. DEBATE CONCERNING THE AUTHORIZATION BY THE CAMERA PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 17.1 OF ORGANICAL LAW 5/2005 OF 17 NOVEMBER, OF NATIONAL DEFENCE. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - APPLICATION FOR AUTHORISATION BY THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTED FOR THE DEPLOYMENT AND PARTICIPATION OF THE ARMED FORCES IN THE MILITARY OPERATION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN THE MEDITERRANEAN CENTRAL MERIDIONAL, EUNAVFOR MED. [[File number 095/000008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u191	Request for the authorization of the Congress of Deputies for the deployment and participation of the Armed Forces in the European Union military operation in the Central Mediterranean. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 316 votes in favour, 300 votes in favour, 301 votes against, 1 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-15-CD150715.u192	It's approved. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and fifty minutes of the night.
