ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u1	The meeting was called to order. Motion by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, on the annoying attitude of the Spanish Government towards the exercise and development of Basque self-government in the field of security. To defend the initiative, Mr Olabarría has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our expectation, perhaps unfounded, that in this motion which we are going to defend next the People's Group will refer to the legal argument or alternatively to the substance of the matter at least. We had the opportunity to discuss this same initiative with the Minister of the Interior and could not penetrate the arguments of a legal nature and justice that we invoke, we only received from the Minister a series of lessons of ethics, moral reproaches regarding our attitude towards terrorism, empathy with the victims and reconciliation, and it did not go beyond that. By the way, a minister who does not have the legitimacy to teach us lessons in these matters. We do not accept anyone's lessons in the fight against terrorism or in the denunciation of terrorism. Nor do we allow anyone's lessons in empathy and reparation to the victims, nor do we allow lessons from those who are not at all interested in the reconciliation of a society, such as that of Euskadi, fractured, which has suffered the scourge of violence for many years and what it needs fundamentally are consensual instruments of reconciliation among all; there we admit no one's lessons. That said, it is not legally complex to argue about this bill. We have used a reference of authority to argue the relevance of it, copying exactly an order from the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, which dismantles and disassembles absolutely a request for annulment of a call for the basic scale of officials of the Ertzaintza: 250 ertzainas. We have done so using the arguments used by the Dispute-Administrative Chamber, indicating that these are structural positions, positions that are budgeted, even if they are not covered by officials, so they do not affect the budgetary stability provided for in the Organic Law of 2012. These places do not require the use of public offers of employment, nor do they require the replacement of the members of the State Security Forces and Corpses or the coverage of the integral police, who, for reasons of vegetative nature, are deprived of their strength and have to cover them in order to fulfil the functions assigned to them by the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy in matters of citizen security, judicial police and civil protection. On 15 April 2015, the Basque Government addressed the Ministry of the Interior indicating that these 250 places were to be called and there was no complaint or rebuttal of this request by the Ministry. The form of coverage of the places of the Ertzaintza does not derive from the public offers of employment approved by the General Budgets of the State, specifically in the case of Law 16/2014, which establishes the General Budgets of the State for the year 2015, because the public offers of employment are not to cover the replacement rates of the Spanish police, neither Catalan nor Basque, nor of the Mossos d'Esquadra or of the Ertzaintza. These are replacement rates arising, in the case of Ertzaintza, from bilateral agreements. They are established, first, in article 17 of the Statute of Guernica, which is rooted in the foral tradition of Euskadi and attributes to Ertzaintza the character of historical law of those constitutionalized by the first additional provision of the Constitution and by the single additional provision of the statute of autonomy and, secondly, in the Police Act of the Basque Country, 4/1992, which excludes for the coverage of places linked to the replacement rate article 70 of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee. Then it is not the public offers of employment the legal mechanism to use - I am reproducing arguments of the Chamber of the Dispute-Administrative of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country - for the coverage of these, but the bilateral agreements formed through the Joint Committee of the Cup, provided for in Royal Decree 3531/1981 of 29 December, for their budgetary appropriations, and of the Security Board, in particular of the last Security Board, held on 11 November 2004, which states that the contingent of ertzainas to perform the functions that an integral police such as the Ertzaintza must perform must be 8,000. Not less than 8,000. Both the Joint Cup Commission and the Security Board have equal membership. Half of the members represent the General Administration of the State and the other half represent the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, and if the General Administration of the State resorts to an act emanating from the Security Board or the Joint Cup Commission, it is resorting to an act of its own and there is no need to reflect here on the prohibition and pre-emption of constitutional jurisprudence regarding the impossibility of appealing to acts of the Administration, or at least half of an act of its own, as they are bilateral bodies. If that were not enough, we would also point out that there is a non-legislative proposal which, at the time, occupies the position of government delegate in Euskadi, Don Carlos Urquijo, the non-legislative proposal 53/2010, where it was unanimously agreed in the Basque Parliament that the Ertzaintza contingent has to be 8,000 members. What has happened to the Ertzaintza is as follows: As most of its lords know, it was created as a police force in the eighties of the last century and was implemented territorially in a progressive way through successive promotions in a very short temporal lapse, which has produced a pyramid of fully flat age. The Ertzaintza staff are at the age of fifteen years, which determines that in a few years we will be able to see the ageing of the staff and their retirement exponentially, which can only be avoided by planning a progressive replacement. This call for 250 officers on the basic Ertzaintza scale aims to prevent this ageing from causing a decrease in the number of vegetative staff that prevents the Ertzaintza from fulfilling its functions, which are integral police functions. This argument is complemented, Mr President, by the reluctant attitude of the General Administration of the State to the participation of the two existing integral police officers in the Spanish State, the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Ertzaintza, in transnational police bodies. They are prevented from accessing the databases of these transnational police bodies, possessing both police officers - the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Ertzaintza - as integral police officers. They are prevented from accessing forums where the mechanisms for preventing and combating terrorism are being articulated again, mainly jihadist terrorism, and particularly the recent Barcelona summit, where all the European police have articulated...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u3	Mr. Olabarria, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u4	Yes, Mr. President, I'm finishing up. It is prevented from being integrated into transnational police bodies, such as Europol, Interpol and Eurojust, where mechanisms are established to prevent terrorist phenomena, not those that have disappeared, but those that are once again fundamentally gravitate on so-called generic jihadist terrorism. I don't know what the reasons are. I miss the reasons that prevent these arguments from being accepted, contradicting not what we say, but what the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country affirms. I don't know how you're going to respond to an argument of a judicial nature. I know that they have appealed against the order in which the request for a stay of the summons was declared void, disassembling all the legal arguments that served as the basis. The appeal is filed with the same legal argument; then here what is observed, in short, is an animodism and a lack of faith in Ertzaintza as an integral police officer. Having said that, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u5	Mr Olabarría, you have to inevitably conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u6	In time, if I may, Mr President, after more than 25 years of presence in this House, this is also my last intervention. No matter what time you have provided me with such generosity, I have to say a number of things. I would like to apologize to you, and to you on behalf of all the presidents who have preceded you in your laudable role, for having engaged in what we could call systematic insurrection as regards the use of the time available to intervene. [[Laughter and applause]] I would like to apologize to everyone present in this House for having sprayed that anthropological myth that is attributed to the Basques to be weak people in words - some optimists claim that long in deeds -. [[Laughter and applause]] I want to thank what I've learned here, which has been a lot. Against this sort of negative view of what comes from this House and of what is speculated and debated, many things are learned here, Mr President. Here we learn many things related to the subjects that we have to discuss from the dialectic contradiction and from other subjects that could be described in vulgar or generic terms of brown grammar, which is not bad for life or coexistence. Above all, I would like to thank all of you for having made many friends of different political sensibilities. See if it is worthy of what I am telling you, Mr President, that I have even managed to be friends with my own fellow Members of the parliamentary group. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Having said that, Mr President, what about the friendships that I have been able to create in the other parliamentary groups, friendships that have paradoxically become very important in those with whom I have discussed most virulently, which means that the parliamentary debate is not yet amortized. I am not an apologeta of what some theorists call ephebocracy - I leave it there -, I am not an apologeta of ephebocracy. I hope that what comes when I leave is better than what we have left, but let me say, Mr President, that I have some doubts. [[Laughter]] Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría, your march is a great loss for this Congress. For the defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Iñarritu of the Joint Group has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a matter here, in our view, in the place where it should be discussed. From Amaiur we surely have differences about the police model we want for the Basque Autonomous Community, even about the modernization that must be in the Ertzaintza, but we can agree on the renewal of the number of officials of different types. Now, we will talk about this with you there, at Euskal Herria. That is why we have tabled an amendment in which the aim is to focus the complaint, the arbitrary interference in Basque competition to organise security from there in Euskal Herria. Because at the heart of this debate is the intractable attitude of the Spanish Government towards the exercise and development of Basque self-government in the area of security, but also in different areas. It is true that the central government has invaded security powers, as we see in this motion tabled by Mr Olabarría. This interference with security is also reflected in the excessive and disproportionate presence of the State Security Forces and Bodies, which makes our country, Euskal Herria, the highest ratio of police officers in Europe and at the same time one of the lowest levels of crime. Today, in an interview in El País to the member of the Socialist Party, Jesus Eguiguren, he said that the Basque Country is the territory of the most peaceful state and yet it is full on all sides of all kinds of police. Until four years ago they used the excuse of the fight against ETA, but now what excuse do they have? Or do you prefer to continue as if nothing had changed? As it seems that the agents of the Civil Guard and the National Police do not know what they have to do, this new situation has caused further interference in the competences of Basque police forces; this was denounced by the director of the Ertzaintza himself last year when he presented a list of fifteen problems which, in his opinion, fall into the field of duplication and invasion of competences. It should be noted that this duplicity has not been remedied, even in the midst of a crisis, in which there are thousands and thousands of agents destined in the Basque Country, who also charge supplements, generating a spending of millions and millions of euros for the State. Although these bodies have residual competencies in our communities, their presence continues. In this they decide not to cut, but to waste. Either because of boredom or because of a colonial mentality, every year more than four thousand controls, checkpoints, are installed on the Basque roads, and do not tell us that it is motivated by the fight called anti-terrorist because, do you know how many people have been arrested on charges of terrorism in those twelve thousand police controls that have been installed during this legislature in the Basque Country? Zero. By the way, both Mr Olabarría and I have asked the Government several questions about the number of police controls that have been installed in our country, and the Government has repeatedly refused to respond; all they have told us is that the necessary ones have been installed. The ones needed for what? To disturb, to strain, to create situations of danger or to justify doing something? The Basque institutions have repeatedly called for the re-adaptation, reduction, withdrawal, and we have called for the withdrawal of these police officers outside our country, and so has the social majority of the country, saying clearly: Let them go. Time for peace, time to go. On the other hand, this competitive invasion is not confined only to security matters. Self-government is day after day outcast and attacked. Thirty-five years have passed and the Statute of Guernica remains unfulfilled. Those adalides of constitutional compliance have refused for thirty-five years to comply with this part of the constitutional bloc. It has been blackmailed and blackmailed by the transfer of competences in exchange for support and votes in this House, and as some have fallen into that game - gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party - now that their votes are not needed, freeze those transfers. This process of re-centralisation has also been seen in the adoption during this legislature of new rules - I am finishing, Mr President - such as the Market Unity Act, the Lomce, the National Security Act, the previous remedy of unconstitutionality, etc. Not to mention the more than a thousand complaints made by government delegates in the Foral Community of Navarre and in the Basque Autonomous Community on various issues. While it is true that different governments have been characterized by having brought from governors or delegates to the Basque Country to lords such as Roldán, San Cristóbal, Elgorriaga, Villar, Goñi Tirapu - remember them, right?-, the best of each house, on this occasion has been presented to the most incendiary. I am running out of time, but we could also talk about that political Constitutional Court or those continuing attacks on the concert and the convention, which will not cease. In short, Basque self-government is daily unfulfilled, reduced and impeded. It is clear that there is no possible fit here, that it is not written in the DNA of this state, so we are clear that we must build a new country project at Euskal Herria, and we hope that some others will see it soon too. It is time to launch a new project to define which police model we want, but also which social model or country model. But we'll talk about this there, at Euskal Herria. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say goodbye to all the colleagues I have been with during this parliamentary term, especially Mr Olabarria. Emilio... [[pronounces words in euskera]] And of you, Mr. President, I'd like to say goodbye with a curiosity. When we arrived in this House, the messages that came to us to the Members of this House were in ancient Castilian. Therefore, I wanted to tell you that you enjoy your work, most of the time, wish him good luck and greet him. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. I thank you for your words. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió, Mr Guillaumes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to use any legal argument because after Mr Olabarria it would be quite odious, quite ridiculous. I will follow that old advice that when you are going to talk to farmers, above all do not talk about agriculture; for that I will do. I refer to what you have said about the replacement rate, which is obvious, so I simply limit myself to your words. The truth is that the Mossos d'Esquadra have not called mossos squares for economic reasons, because the money did not arrive, convinced that we could legally do so. In fact, I told the minister in this rostrum. Now we know what would have happened if we had summoned them; no more or less than what happened to you. Therefore, our empathy in this sense is maximal. Speaking in political terms, which is not legal, it is to be somewhat nervous that the State is obstructing the convening of comprehensive police stations, at a time of security as we are; at a time when international terrorism, organized crime is growing. At the moment, it turns out that police officers who are attached to the territory, those who have contact with citizens, are deprived of growth and are deprived of the information that the international databases would give them. Let me ask the Government group: What are its priorities? Because, reasonably, it would have to be the safety of citizens, not limit the powers of the autonomous communities. We hope that, but the fact that they limit replacement rates and limit the connection - in a globalised world today - to Interpol and Europol databases to police officers who, in practice, perform all the functions in their territory, surely help not. We would therefore ask you, with a certain tone of concern, to review your priorities and see what really matters, the safety of citizens. We have tabled some amendments which are, in fact, minimalist. I mean, where I was putting ertzaina, we've put ertzaina and mossos; where I was putting cops, we've put all the cops in the whole. In fact, the amendments that enabled us, thanks to your initiative, to locate our problem. Since I have some time left, I did want to devote it not to saying goodbye in general, because that saying goodbye brings terrible bad luck, so I'm not going to do it. [[Laughter]] It's not that I'm superstitious, because this brings very bad luck, but just in case I'm gonna do it. I'm not going to say goodbye to you, but I am going to say goodbye to Mr. Olabarría. You have taught me a lot of wisdom, but wisdom can be taken from many parts, Mr Olabarria, especially today in the Internet era. He has taught me something much more important; he has taught me humility; he has shown me my limitations. There's Mrs. Carme Outós, who's been sitting next to me for two years, and she knows what I'm going to say. After you heard him, I was like, "Do you think if I spend twenty years here, I'll be able to be as good a parliamentarian as Mr. Olabarría?" Yes or no? Yes, I think that with this sentence I sum up a feeling that I believe it is not only mine, but of a large part of this House, of which I do not say goodbye but, in particular, of you, I did want to do so, thanking you for your lessons of wisdom, but above all for your great lessons - as I have already said - of humility. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. In the course of fixing positions, first of all, for the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to the motion, the first thing I have to say is that I was neither disappointed at all nor missed. But I want to remind you that Mr. Olabarría last week scolded some of the people who were saying goodbye and today he has said goodbye. Great, but not because he gets fired, but because it's been really nice to be working here with him for four years. He has now said that he does not like anyone to give lessons to him or his group and he has given us a few, which is also in line with the above, but the contradiction is - Unamuno said - a natural state of the human race. As you go into what you propose to us in this motion, it seems to my group that two very different things are proposed here, and that will lead us to abstain in principle. First of all, we agree that the replacement of Ertzaintza squares should not be impeded, which, like many other administrative bodies - such as those of the university and others - had a history that has led to a fairly unsustainable pyramid of age, because we can soon have a police force with medium-aged officers of fifty years old. But on the other hand, it raises a second question: the integration of Ertzaintza into certain transnational entities, which we do not think is acceptable or unacceptable, not even realistic. But let's go through the parts. The first thing I want to say is that it seems to my group very well to maintain the dimension of Ertzaintza, it seems to us that it is a police body that has had a good performance, we have no repair or criticism to make it, at all. Another thing is the political leadership, but this always happens, the governments are not the administrations or the bodies responsible for implementing their decisions. If we start talking about whether or not the Ertzaintza should be part of Europol, Interpol and Eurojust, it would be very good - as Mr Olabarria very much likes to illustrate - to talk about comparative law. We would meet with surprises like, let's put a case, that of the United States, an archifamous country because it has a complicated police structure, which also features a lot of series and movies. The New York Police have today about 35,000 officers, yet the New York Police, which is four or five times larger than the Ertzaintza, has not requested to be present in Interpol or any other similar body. In Germany, it has three police steps - similar to Spain -, the Federal Police, the Landespolizei, i.e. the Länder-dependent police, and the local police. However, only German federal law enforcement agencies are in international institutions. For what reason? It is very simple, because in these organisations - Europol, Interpol, Eurojust, those mentioned - the states are represented, and it cannot be otherwise because there cannot be entities that do not enjoy the executive power and the authority that grant democratic constitutions, and those that are not, to States to execute legitimate violence other than that of the state. Then, one of two, or the Ertzaintza would become - which I do not think is the idea of Mr Olabarria or his group - in another state security corps - surely not, being an autonomous police - or otherwise, even though it is an integral police, which is true that it is, with competences in terrorism and other issues that are certainly not local, could not be in these organs either, because to whom would they represent?, to the Ertzaintza? No, because the police are not represented, there are the states. As States stand, Ertzaintza cannot represent the Spanish State, which already has its own representation. And I realize that it's not that we don't agree that this is far from being fixed. There are also difficulties in coordination between the Civil Guard, the National Police and others. We are going to abstain and we are going to try to promote that the Basque Government and the Spanish Government, of course, seek effective forms of collaboration and coordination so that when the Ertzaintza has intervention for reasons of research in an international action there is good coordination, good transmission. Even if there is a need for representatives of the Ertzaintza in certain proceedings, we have nothing against it at all. The only thing we don't want and what we've always opposed is politicized cops. The fact that the Ertzaintza represents a hypothetical Basque State that does not exist in an international body would not cease to be a somewhat misguided form of politicization. Let's leave it at this point. We believe that we must not repeat the serious mistake that has been made in Spain by having seventeen health systems, seventeen education systems, four tax systems and that there are also three police systems. This would only make citizens' security worse, which should be what we should care about, and we think that the current formula, without being the optimal one, has a solution of improvement but not of change in the sense in which it is proposed by the PNV. Finally, I wanted to say to Mr Olabarria that I do not believe that the problem that we have in this House or anywhere is an ephebocracy, that of everything in the Lord's house as far as ages are concerned; it is more of a mediocracy, that is to say, of acting and theatrical representation of policies which often do not deserve the name of such policies. Having said that, and since he has said good-bye, I would like to thank him for the good times we have had and I hope that they will be repeated in the future in other environments and in other institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. My group will vote in favour of this questionable motion. We believe that what the Basque Group puts forward in the two points of the proposal is appropriate. What we regret is that in the interpellation that gave rise to this motion, the minister, absent from the debate today, devoted much more time to other issues that were not raised by the Basque Nationalist Party, rather than to the specific issue of 250 seats, participation in international forums, etc. It would have been grateful if he had devoted more time to it. However, from the interpellation we infer that there is a sort of profound clash between the competence of the State to direct and to present the general outlines of the national economy, which is a constitutional competence, and the competence relating to the autonomous police. In this clash, the Government of the People's Party continues to maintain its 13th appeal to the Dispute-Administrative Chamber against the decision of the Basque Government to renew these 250 seats. The truth is that my group does not know what these kinds of decisions will help to maintain the economic and budgetary balance of the state, but of course to try to set up a model of state in which we all feel comfortable, autonomous communities within its competences, the state, etc., does not help much. To have to come to this House to get into the background of whether or not an autonomous community is allowed, on a matter of its competence, to take 250 places out of its autonomous police, in what help to cohesion Spain?, in what help to improve the economy?, in what help to nothing? We do not understand the Government's bias in maintaining this remedy, when there has already been a first ruling by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country denying the Government's claim for precautionary measures. From there, one can infer where the final resolution can end, and if it is in no way going to help improve the economy or improve the cohesion of the State, we wonder why the People's Party Government is striving to maintain this contentious-administrative, which leads us to vote in favour of the first point. The second point raises the integration of Ertzaintza, together with other police forces, into international bodies. Apart from the specific literal tenor and that we are perfectly in agreement that it participates in international forums when such important and cross-cutting issues as terrorism are discussed - one of the issues that was raised in the inquiry, as well as that representatives of the Ertzaintza were not invited - and apart from the fact that we do not agree with the police model that the People's Party Government and also the Socialist Party have been developing for many years - which has become clear in various debates in the House - it also seems to us justified in the tenor of the proposal to standardize and access databases, and so on, without questioning or taking the radon by the leaves as to whether the competence of the representation of the Spanish Police corresponds to one body or another. It is the responsibility of the State, of course. Within a division of competences it will not be for the autonomous communities to represent Spain in international entities, but let's take things from where it touches. We are talking about an international forum, about access to databases, which is the substantial issue and in which we can seek agreements, consensus and in which we can find ourselves and end up looking for a model of State in which we are all at ease, so that it does not end up happening the usual, especially when it governs the People's Party, and that is that every time they move they generate a growth of independence in the various territories of the State. Review your policies, ladies and gentlemen, because Spain is not doing well out there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. For the Socialist Group, Mr Trevín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. I rise to the rostrum to lay down a position on the two proposals of the motion of the PNV Parliamentary Group and at the same time to make two personal mentions. The first, for Mr. Olabarría. Mr Olabarría, it has been a pleasure and a good thing to share with you the work on the Committee on the Interior. I take from that work and from these four years the admiration of the brilliant parliamentarian; you carry the affection that I have for the friendly Basque citizen. Above all, I remind you that we have a meal to attend, which runs on my own, with Councillor Jané, of course, in an Asturian restaurant in Madrid. I begin, after this introduction, by telling you clearly that we are going to vote against the second proposal that you make to us, to establish the appropriate mechanisms for the integration of Ertzaintza into transnational police structures. I think that, somehow, you already expected this because we have a traditional position, which was discussed just over two years ago in this House and in other legislatures. What's our position? Our position is the constitutional one, and for us the Constitution has reserved to the State competence in the field of collaboration and assistance of foreign police. It is true that all the police, including the Ertzaintza as an integral police, in the area of security, civil protection and judicial police, information, and for that information the appropriate mechanisms, the liaison commissions, as the Civil Guard itself must have, are established and must function. Interpol has the connection with the police, and then the police, through the liaison commission, has the connection with the Civil Guard. We have to act in the same way as we do with the Civil Guard, the system has to work for the autonomous police of this country, both for the Basque and for the Catalan, but our position in this sense is clear and is that it is the competence of the State, hence our negative vote. I conclude with this point by saying that you and I agree that what we need is an effective, comprehensive police, and in that sense we must flee from the nominalist debate and go to the debate of effectiveness, which is increasingly going through collaboration, that is, the coordination work with the security boards, so that the Basque or Spanish citizens have good security, which is given to them by the police and the Civil Guard, which is given to them with their powers - which are many - the Ertzaintza itself, and which is also given to them by the local police. Let us work on that cooperation between the three of us because we are convinced of its effectiveness. We will vote in favour - and I hope it will be a compensation - of the first proposal, which refers to the withdrawal of the appeal lodged against the decision of the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country on the interim suspension of the call for 250 places on the basic scale of the Ertzaintza. We share with you the staff: 8,000. And I'm not saying it now, I said it two years ago in this very House. I said: we believe that the current staffing of the Ertzaintza is appropriate for the competencies it has today and I also have to acknowledge that this autonomous police is doing their job very effectively. I agree with each and every one of the points I said at the time, and therefore I believe that this number of police officers, of troops, is necessary. I also believe that we are not faced with a problem that can cause serious budgetary imbalances, because in all areas the budgetary matter necessary to carry it out is resolved, and we already have a resolution from a judicial body. I therefore believe that it is a recidivism in the confrontation that leads nowhere and should have been avoided. That is why, because this recidivism does not lead us anywhere, I wanted to end the last personal mention to the Minister of the Interior. Since it is not here, I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party to transmit it to you because at this point what you are adding is one more. Take a good look. What the Minister of the Interior has at the moment is an overbooking on his altar of aggrieved and harmed. He has accomplished in these four years that he no longer has one more saint on that altar of aggrieved ones. It has aggrieved the members of the retaliated Civil Guard associations; the police commissioners who have ceased to have a coffee with whom the minister is disturbed; the escorts of those threatened in the harsh years of terrorism, abandoned to their bad luck; the examiners of the DGT, in an unknown strike for decades; protesters and strikers, fined and jailed; women and homosexuals, who are undervalued or ironic in their rights. And now it turns out that it puts on that altar of its aggrieved not only the independenceists, but the nationalists. I was almost tempted to apply Napoleon's maxim: when the enemy is wrong, it is better not to distract him. But I think it's too hard. Therefore, I recommend - with this I finish - to apply the maximum that Michael Poveda, in the cup The Savior, tells us and advises us: My God, what a great pain. The soul weeps at me. Let's see when the time rings, that the intentions become good to Minister Fernández Díaz and this government. Woe woe, the savior! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Trevín. For the People's Group, Mr Barreda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Olabarría, without giving you any lessons - neither is the Minister here to discuss with you or with Mr Trevín, who I hope will not cry with my speech -, I have to start by announcing that we are going to vote against your motion, a motion with an undisguised electoralist approach, which seeks to put the focus of old nationalist victimism on a disagreement that I would call administrative, because in the political background there is no important discrepancy. Only in this way can we understand, I insist, that you raise a motion with two points in this last part-session. The first, to address a sub-judicious issue, a subject of judicial controversy on which the courts were positioned. It is before the courts that we should give all that argument that you tell us. By the way, I do not know whether it can be invoked as an argument of authority, as you did, a judicial decision that is not yet final. Let's see if we all know what we're talking about. It is a subject, I insist, subject to judicial controversy, and now we will see how we have come to that. And a second point, which has been debated in this Parliament on a proposal from CiU, without any new wording justifying its proposal since that debate. I will begin with the end, with this second point, on the integration of Ertzaintza into transnational police structures. The constitutional and statutory reservation, also in article 16 of the Gernika Statute, to the security forces and bodies of the State of police services of a supra-Community and extra-Community character, Mr Iñarritu, is evident. It is an extensive listing that you know, with which nothing residual. It is under this reservation that the direction and coordination of cooperation with the International Police are the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. This includes, of course, cooperation within Europol, Interpol, Sirene and Schengen information systems. Does this mean that Ertzaintza does not have access to information, as you claim? No, no, What means is that, as you have been reminded, there are channels for this information, channels that respect the competences of the different bodies and that do not question the integral character of the Ertzaintza police in its territorial sphere of action. This is consistent with our legislation and the agreed interpretation, which we all share, at least since 1987, of Article 17 of the Statute. I say this with all conviction, since between the scenes in that 1987 agreement I also played at least one modest role. We are therefore convinced of the need for adequate coordination of information between the State Security Forces and the regional police. Ertzaintza has access to the usual procedures for the distribution of information through different liaison officers, four liaison officers permanently assigned to the Division of International Cooperation of the National Police, which coordinates and groups the Office of Interpol Spain, the Spanish Unit of Europol and the Sirene Office of Spain. In other words, the exchange of information takes place through the links that Ertzaintza, Mossos d'Esquadra and the Civil Guard - I repeat, also the Civil Guard, which you always forget - have in that division of International Cooperation of the National Police. Of course, general warnings are disseminated to all the security forces and bodies, state and autonomous, and we believe that this system has been proven, which is what matters, effective in practice and over time. There is, therefore, nothing to do with what you call a recurring non-collaborative attitude of the Spanish Government and, fortunately, this rampant victimism of speech, in that expression and in so many others that have been poured out today, does not correspond to the reality or the day-to-day cooperation of the different security forces for the safeguarding of the people and goods they have assigned. With regard to point 1, Mr Olabarría, the call for the Ertzaintza squares, which is desirable, and I say this categorically, would be to have not reached the courts. No one tries to obstruct successive calls and we are all aware of the high average age of the staff and the inexorable retirement of half of their staff in a few years. That also calls for greater responsibility for such political initiatives. But just as I am telling you this, I am also convinced that the Security Board could have avoided or managed this disagreement if you had agreed to bring it together. And I believe that the legal discussions that are on the table should also be addressed at that meeting, as should the issue of total strength following the reduction of protection needs for people threatened by ETA. After all - it has been recalled here, but the practical consequence is not drawn - the 2004 Security Board left the way and the criteria to avoid these situations. It was not the Government of Spain that refused to convene the Security Board. I insist, for that it was necessary to bring it together and you did not consider it necessary, preferring the way of the courts. Those judicial decisions must be all of us, and I hope that as soon as possible, in the interests of legal certainty and the normal renewal of the staff of an indispensable security corps such as Ertzaintza, we will have those firm resolutions. Believe me, I would have preferred to have seen these issues away from the courts and, of course, the Ertzaintza aside from debates and motions with blatant pre-election charge. I'm done, Mr. President. Mr Olabarría and I knew each other many years before we agreed in this House. We have agreed a lot, we have discussed a lot and I trust that I can continue to do so in other forums in the future. Thank you very much. [[Mr Bosch i Pascual asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Barreda. Mr. Bosch, can you take the floor?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u20	Yes, to read a rectification.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u21	I give you the floor. Read the rectification.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u22	In my speech at the plenary meeting on Thursday, 27 November 2014, I improperly included Ignacio García de Vinuesa in the list of politicians accused and/or convicted and/or imprisoned for corruption, as there is no objective data to support this end.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Bosch, your words will appear in the 'Diary of Sessions'. - THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY, ON THE OFFICIALITY OF THE CASTELLANO AS THE COMMON SPANISH LANGUAGE. [[File number 173/000232]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u24	Motion by the Group of the Union for Progress and Democracy on the official status of Spanish as a common Spanish language. For your defence, Mrs. Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u25	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to the debate on behalf of my group to raise a question that does not concern languages, not even the common language. I come to raise a very simple debate, which should never have to occur but which takes place in Spain because we are a unique country, in which the defence of the obvious is still necessary. I suppose this has to do with our young democracy, where we have to defend the obvious by strengthening the laws that exist, including the Constitution. I come to raise a basic issue that has to do with freedom: freedom of choice for citizens and equal access for citizens. It is not the languages that have the rights, as we have often had to explain in this rostrum, but the rights of the citizens are those of the citizens. In this case, we appeal to the right of all Spanish citizens to choose the language in which they want to address the Administration, the language in which they want to educate or educate their children and also equal access, to be able to have equal access to any place of the Public Administration. Therefore, this motion by the parliamentary group that I represent goes that way, in defence of equality. In the interrogation of the Government last week I had the opportunity to discuss with the Minister of Education and cited a series of judgments of the Constitutional Court that are not being complied with, judgments that protect these rights of citizens of freedom and equality that are not being complied with and that are those, in the opinion of my group, that require intervention by the Government, the State, precisely to guarantee those rights. There are quite clear rulings of the Constitutional Court on this and also of the Supreme Court. I will only refer in this brief time to what I have in two paragraphs of sentence 31 of the year 2010, which says in text: The right of choice or linguistic availability proclaimed by certain statutes of autonomy and laws of communities with their own languages, derived from the right of individuals - derived from the right of individuals - not to suffer discrimination for linguistic reasons for their exercise before the public institutions whose discipline is the responsibility of the State, says the Constitutional, requires the inexcusable and exclusive intervention of the State legislator. The Constitutional says that the right is the right of individuals, and in order for that right to be effectively exercised on equal and free terms, the legislator must act. And it says more: without formalities or conditions that result for them - for those who choose - in a burden or obligation that constitutes them in the position of active subject in their relations with the public administration. That is to say, without the need for those who prefer their language of communication to be Spanish to ask for it expressly, it is enough for them to express that will by simply writing their writings in Spanish. It is quite logical what we are proposing, that the will of the citizen to be answered in his own language is exercised simply by writing or speaking in that language. The same applies to education in all areas, and the same applies to access to any place in the public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, as I say, when last week I raised this question with the Minister of Education on behalf of my group, he replied, among other things, that the laws are being complied with and that the one who believes that what he has to do is go to court. I have just read you two paragraphs of two Constitutional Court rulings; it would seem that there is no need for more, but yes, there is a need for a democratic pedagogy. The government has to act, that's what we pay it for; it has to act to keep the laws. What has to save us, what saves democracy is precisely that, the application of laws, and also it is often very pedagogical for those who want to skip them to act to prevent the law from being violated. In this question that has to do with what some call languages and what we define as citizens' rights, because that is what we are talking about, as I say, the right to choose and to choose, over these years, among many other things, has been confused cultural identity and political citizenship. I insist, what is cultural identity has been confused with political citizenship, which is precisely the basis of nationalism. In many cases they have turned the language into an instrument of identity building and that really is very bad for democracy. They have introduced to us the idea that ours, what distinguishes us from others, from our fellow citizens, the being here or there, defending ours, the closest, is progressive, when the essential, the truly progressive, is what unites us with others, not what separates us from others, all this to insist on the basic and to return to the basic. This is a motion that raises the need for the Government to act to defend, to be effective in practice and for all citizens, live in the part of Spain in which they live, basic constitutional rights, freedom and equality. That's what the motion is for. That is the purpose of the motion. If I may, before I finish and in relation to this very thing, I recommend to your ladies and gentlemen - because of everything we learn and some people teach us more than others - particularly to my colleagues who sit on the left, the reading of an article by Fernando Savater of the year 2013, entitled Laicism and the common language, in which, among other things, you are very jealous of the Charter of Laity at the School that Minister Peillon launched a couple of years ago in France and recalls two points of that letter, point 6, which says that any proselytism and pressure that prevents students from making their free choice cannot be tolerated, and point 7, which says that all students have guaranteed access to a common and shared culture. In this case the common language, which is also the official language, is an instrument that unites us all Spanish and that is really what we have to defend in order to defend the rights of all Spanish people. I thank the Socialist Group and the People's Group for the amendments they have tabled to us. We have presented a transactional to both groups. From the reading of their own amendments I understand that they are substantially in agreement that the Government has to act to give effect to basic constitutional rights and, therefore, I hope, I am sure, that we can reach an agreement. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the defence of these amendments, which Mrs Díez has announced, Mr Torres Mora has the floor for the Socialist Group in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the debate is not what it seems, it is best to start with the obvious, so I will start by saying that I am Spanish, I feel Spanish, I did the militia, I pay my taxes and, although I am not a great fan, I see the parties of the Selection, one more Spanish, a Spanish of the pile, one like any other, but a Spanish. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear here that my way of feeling Spanish is not that of a nationalist, but that of a humble patriot, and that is not a minor distinction for the subject before us. It is an important distinction, because in politics we fight with words, and that forces us to fight also for words and for their meaning. Nationalism is not the only form of love for the homeland. There is an older form, which is the patriotism of which Viroli speaks, the constitutional patriotism of which Habermas speaks or the civic nationalism of which Ignatiev speaks. I'll use patriotism. For the patriot there is nothing between citizens and their political institutions. For the nationalist, between real people and political institutions, there is a fabulous subject, which is the nation. The patriot needs the freedom of his fellow citizens. The nationalist is satisfied with the independence of his nation. For the patriot the enemies are despotism and corruption. For the nationalist, the enemies are cultural pollution and ethnic impurity. Nationalists are left with their society great, they are convinced that the nation creates the state, but before that they have to make the nation, so when they have enough power they succumb to temptation and amputate from their society the part that hinders them to create their nation. To build and strengthen this fabulous subject make life more difficult for human beings of flesh and blood, forcing them to normalize to look like the mythical immortal nation, as nationalists dream. Spain is not a country for nationalists. A country made up of different medieval kingdoms united by conquest or marriage alliances, a country with different rights outside, a country with four languages is too heterogeneous to fit into the Procust bed of nationalist thought. A great Basque poet, Gabriel Aresti, dedicated a poem to Tomás Meabe, founder of the Socialist Youth, who says: Close your eyes soft/ Meabe/ tab against tab/ because it is only Spanish who knows/ Meabe/ the four languages of Spain. [[Applauds]] That must be, in my opinion, the vision of a Spanish patriot, and that of the one who shouts "Dwarf, speaks in Spanish!", that is the blindness of a Spanish nationalist. Catalonia is also not a country for nationalists, because Catalonia is also mixed, it also has two languages and both are equally Catalan; however, Catalan independenceists do not understand it that way. Just read the so-called Gramenet bases recently published by the Catalan National Assembly to see that for Catalan independence Spanish or Spanish is a foreign language, but nowhere in the world is the most spoken language a foreign language, and in Catalonia the most spoken language is precisely the Spanish language. In 1978 the Spanish patriots won the departure of the Spanish nationalists and we made and adopted a Constitution that protects our diversity and plurality and that has allowed, for example, Galician, Basque or Catalan children to study in their mother tongues. Well, not all of them. In Catalonia, children whose native language is Spanish or Spanish must study in Catalan. This was done with the aim of ensuring that there were not two communities separated by language, but only one community with the wealth of bilingualism. The truth is that, according to data from the Generalitat de Catalunya itself, this has not harmed the Castilian. Asked in 2006 about the nearest language by Catalan students, they replied that Spanish was 34% and 36% in 2013. Students who felt equally close to both languages increased from 28 per cent to 30 per cent. Spanish and bilingualism have good health, as does Catalan. However, something's wrong. There's something going on that we haven't seen before. It is a political division of Catalan society according to language. Since I'm a sociologist, I'll give you a hint of a sociologist. In 2010, in the CIS pre-election survey, the difference in the negative judgment regarding the management of President Montilla made by Catalans whose mother tongue is Catalan and those whose mother tongue is Spanish was 8 points. In the pre-election survey of the last elections, that difference referred to President Mas is 41 points. It's too drastic a change to realize something's wrong. I do not think that this is wrong with the language, but with the political attitudes of two nationalisms which do not understand that Spain is too big for centralism and Catalonia too plural for separatism. Nor do they understand that democracy is more than majorityism, that a democracy without laws can end up being the tyranny of a majority, even a very small majority. Laws must protect citizens from any arbitrariness and it is good to claim their validity. That is why the Socialists are proposing an amendment which we believe improves the wording of the motion we are debating and which does so in the sense that we consider more appropriate to the spirit of the 1978 Constitution, which is a spirit of agreement. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Torres Mora. For the People's Group, Mrs Torrado has the floor to table her amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, few people are unaware of the position of the People's Party with regard to the use of co-official languages in our national territory and, if anyone doubts, it has nothing more to do with Article 3 of our Constitution. That is the position of the Government in this area and therefore also of the People's Parliamentary Group. With this strictly constitutional criterion, we have been working and working for the use, learning, respect and development of the languages we share in our territory. As I said, there has been work and work, because our concern for the language is not limited to concrete events that occurred with the latest independent waves or during the school enrolment period. Thus, from the Ministry of Education, through its various competent agencies and departments, continuous and constant follow-up is carried out on an aspect so fundamental to our culture and so decisive for the training of the students of our educational institutions. At last week's inquiry, Mrs Díez said that Spain is a rare country. I honestly can't agree with that adjective, but I wouldn't say it's any country either. Rather and perhaps letting myself be carried away by an excessive passion for my country, I would say that Spain is a special country. I would even dare to say that it is unique and that few countries in our environment have received such a heterogeneous, rich and diverse cultural heritage. We have received it and absorbed it as our own, so that this mixture has managed to homogenize itself, resulting in a common language that has been nourished with each of the native languages and with which they also arrived from other parts of the world, becoming the passage of the years in which today is the second most spoken mother tongue on the planet. Ladies and gentlemen, I am Valencian and very proud to be so and all my life I have lived with the two languages spoken in my region, the Valencian Community, the Valencian language and the Spanish language. I have never felt compelled to express myself in one or the other, and I have done so with absolute freedom. The issue raised by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy could be simplified by a very simple example that we would all understand. We all share a code of movement and, as you know, unfortunately there are those who skip those rules. If the competent authorities are aware of these acts outside the law, the procedure that we all know with the corresponding sanction or sentence is put in place if appropriate. The democracy of which we are fortunate to enjoy this establishes it: a legal order, rights and duties. We all have to comply with the rules, both natural and legal, and, if they are not complied with, there are mechanisms to defend established rights. The validity of the Spanish Constitution and, therefore, that of its article 3, which recognizes the duty of all Spaniards to know Spanish as the official language of the State and the right to use it, is unquestionable and when any citizen has seen this right diminished, he has resorted to the courts, receiving attention and reply to his claim. Further to the educational sphere, it should be borne in mind that the right of pupils to receive education in Spanish and in the other co-official languages must be ensured by programming the educational offer of the respective autonomous community. Educational administrations should ensure a sustained teaching offer with public funds in which Spanish is used as a language for a reasonable proportion of the population. If the programming of the competent education administration does not guarantee such an offer, the additional thirty-eighth provision of the Organic Law for the Improvement of Educational Quality, Lomce, establishes a subsidiary mechanism for compensation of costs to families guaranteeing the right to receive education in Spanish and in the other co-official languages, taking into account that the application of this subsidiary mechanism must be exceptional, since the public administration is obliged to act with full compliance with the law and the law, and the courts have repeatedly declared the right of citizens to use Spanish as a vehicle language. Therefore, rather than enacting new legislation, since the current legislation clearly and sufficiently recognizes the right of all citizens to use the official language of the entire State, efforts must be made to ensure its proper application and to ensure that citizens can exercise their linguistic rights freely. That is why we in the People's Parliamentary Group have tabled an amendment to the second paragraph of this motion, but I am sure, Mrs Díez, that we will agree with the compromise that you have put before us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u30	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, in turn of fixing positions - the order is changed, there are three interventions of two minutes - Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u32	Mr Tardà, I have to warn you that you can only use Catalan if you translate it later. You have to speak Spanish. [[Mr Tardà i Coma speaks words that are not perceived]] No, no, you have to speak Spanish and I'll call you to order for the first time. You must use the Spanish. It is the norm and no other one can be used.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u33	[[He continues his intervention in Catalan.- He continues his intervention in Basque, whose text, which he gives to the 'Diario de Sesiones', says the following: Emilio, ohore bat izan da zure lagoon. Cheers, Olabarría.]] Rosa Diez, all said, you see. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. I now give the floor to Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u35	[[Start your intervention in Valencian]] Mrs Díez spoke of freedom in the exercise of rights, of protecting the effective right of all citizens to choose and use the official languages, and said that the aim of her motion was to guarantee the right of all Spaniards to freedom and equality. We have said that we do not all have the same rights. [[The lady]] It speaks of freedom of choice, of choosing the language in which you want to educate your children and in which you want to communicate with the Administration. Let's talk about rights, Mrs. Díez, let's talk about freedoms. Three cases, two are from the year 2014 on my land. Xirivella police station, l'Horta Oest: police refused to attend to a lady because she spoke to them in Valencian. Crevillent, Baix Vinalopó: a doctor and a cellist denied a neighbor medical assistance for the same reason. They are only two of the fourteen cases denounced in 2014 by the Platform for the rights linguistics to the Valencia Country of violation of individual and collective rights of Valencian speakers. By the way, most of these complaints respond to the elimination - elimination - of the provision of education in Valencia. They don't have to tell me, I've suffered in my own flesh with my three daughters. In Valencia, Antonio Cuñat, mayor of Favara, has been arrested for speaking Valencian to agents of authority and not doing so as a Christian, as he was called upon to do in a derogatory manner. There is not a single case in the opposite case. I'm finishing up. Mrs Díez, your party has a deputy for Valencia, but we have never heard a single word denounce the violation of Valencia's rights. Never. They have never stood on the side of the weak in linguistic rights, never on the side of the minority language.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u36	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u37	I'm done, I've got two lines left. You only defend your rights and freedoms. Therefore, do not talk to me about rights and do not talk to me about freedoms, not as long as it does not also defend our rights, the rights of the citizens, since our mother taught us a language other than Spanish and we are proud to speak it and to preserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u38	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia there is an association which was formed primarily to create a problem that never existed, an association which was invented as discrimination against Spanish in Galicia and whose manifestations have been led, among other illustrious, by the Minister of Development, Mr Albert Rivera or Mrs Rosa Díez. You, Mrs Díez, stated on the eve of one of those demonstrations that it is assiduous that your aim - I read textually - was to limit the linguistic impositions of certain administrations that prevent - in your opinion - the free choice of the use of official languages. At that time he made an appeal to society - and I read again textually - that it should not leave everything in the hands of politicians, but that it should take them from the flap - I continue to read textually - and put limits on them. Well, Mrs Díez, what we expect from the BNG is precisely that, that the citizens take it by the flap and set it limits definitively, limits to their Spanish-speaking desire, which diminishes that of the very Minister Wert, and limits above all to that parallel reality which they have created a few on the imposition of the Galician, which has nothing to do with the reality existing in a country, Galicia, where the Galician Institute of Statistics itself, dependent on the Xunta, ensures that monolingualism in Spanish extends like powder and where the percentage of children who never speak Galician has increased in the last five years by 18 points, already approaching 50%, and where only 13% of our children express themselves in our own language. The imposition, Mrs Díez, was the one that marked the Constitutional Court when it ruled, after it was appealed by the PSOE, that our law of linguistic normalization of 1983, adopted unanimously in the Galician Parliament, could not collect for the Galician what the Constitution contains for the Spanish, the obligation to know it. The imposition, Mrs. Díez, is the one that represents educational policies carried out...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u40	Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u41	I'm done, Madam President. .... for a Galician Junta that throws the alarming data that I used to quote to them. Mrs Díez, you have never had institutional representation in Galicia, because you have never understood our reality, and the Galicians and Galicians have never really wanted political forces like yours to represent them. We, collectively, in Galicia, have endured so far many ladies Rosa Díez and many UPyDs. Our language is millennial and will of course remain collectively in the face of attacks like yours. We will vote against your motion. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u43	Thank you, Madam President. He said Xalbador in a verse of his own:, something like that he who wants a lot suffers a lot, and he meant the euskera precisely. [[Pronounce words in Basque]] Mrs Diez, don't talk to me about bilingualism since monolingualism. I'm the bilingual here. In the Congress of Deputies I have no problem speaking in Spanish, moreover, I have no need to speak in Basque. What I do want is for me to speak in Basque when I am in the Basque Parliament, but you, when I was in the Basque Parliament, spoke only in Spanish, and I, when I am in the Madrid Parliament, speak in Spanish, and if I am in the Basque Parliament, would speak in Basque. Do not make a defense of bilingualism from monolingualism, because, in relation to what Mr Torres Mora said about Meabe, the closest to Meabe's proposal are the Basques and Catalans we speak Basque and Catalan or Galicians who speak Galician. Having said that, you may well know that you are not at the same level. Who do you think might think that the Spanish may be in danger or in a situation of almost absconding or discrimination in the Spanish State? Do you have any problems speaking Spanish in Euskadi? Does he have a problem? Those of us who have had problems for many years to speak in Basque have been those who spoke in Basque and those who spoke Catalan or Galician. Therefore, with this difference in level that has occurred from all policies of positive discrimination, thanks to some - not just some, but above all some - we have managed to make Basque or Catalan today in our own territories, in our own countries, in a situation of pride. And it's just that no one has imposed anything. People have decided what educational model they want for their children. People have decided what is best, that it is much better for their children to know two, three or four languages to stay in a monolingualism, as it is the only defense that can be. Without these active policies, today, and with proposals like yours or those of people who propose things like yours, with those proposals the euskera would surely be on the verge of extinction. It would not have been possible to develop either in education, in university or in society, anywhere it would have been possible to move forward, because of this ironic concept which must, in order to defend something, end up going against the other. It's something that's going to give you an invoice, you've given them an invoice. The clearest example is the election results of his own training in places such as Euskadi or Catalonia. Don't tell me they're nationalist impositions, etc. People aren't dumb. People decide what's best for their children. People decide what is most viable, what is positive, and what makes a person rich. I'd be so proud to know more instead of less. What's enriching is being able to have more options. In Euskadi, in thirty years we have raised 14.5 bilingualism level points. Those under the age of thirty-five are already 75 % people who know Basque. At the university, 64% are enrolled in Basque, when in 1985 we were 10%, and at school more than 85% have the certification of the C1 of Basque domain. How much has the state cooperated in all this? Has the government delegate in Euskadi, Mr Urquijo, a persecutor of Euskaldunes, at some point made any effort to defend the linguistic rights of Basque speakers? Or is it that linguistic rights, as you say, are of the citizens? Of course, we citizens have linguistic rights. Has he done anything, for example, because he was not served in Basque by a Civil Guard command or because in the Government Sub-Delegation, in immigration, no one knew about Basque? Do you know why, among other things, you have resorted to all the records that have been drawn up in some municipalities only in Basque? Because they don't have anyone who knows Spanish to translate them. Is that the bilingualism we're looking for? It is impoverishment and the shortcomings that a State has in relation to others who have developed more than one language. This was defined very well by a Catalan gentleman who was Education Advisor, Ernest Maragall, who evidently is not of my party - at that time he was of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, when he was Councillor d'Educació - who said: You want the law to guarantee you the right not to learn a language. It is the most dramatic thing that can happen to someone, let the law say: you have the right not to learn and, if you do not learn and use it, the State will guarantee you that right. What a disgrace and poverty! Truly, the identity elements are always of the others, aren't they, Mr. Torres Mora? Others are the ones who have them. What you want for Spain I want for Euskadi. I don't care if it's nationalism, patriotism or whatever. You make that argument from a position of someone who already has a state. I would do the same if I were like you, a man with a vertebrate state, but since I don't have it, I have to do this series of statements. I'm going to end a quote from Koldo Mitxelena, who said, "You can't trust, as some do, more for comfort than otherwise, the myrific effects of the decree, nor the declarations of co-officiality or officiality. Just as our people have to look for a place in the world, so also the Basque has to look for a place in the world.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u44	Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u45	Therefore, Mrs Díez, we are not going to support your proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, since this is my last speech in this Parliament, I would like to thank all the people I have worked with. I hope to see you again in the next one. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u46	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Plural Left, Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Díez [[He begins his intervention in Catalan, whose text, which he gives to the 'Diario de Sesiones', says: Do not insist on continuing to create a conflict where there is no conflict, trying to scratch four votes, whether playing with the fire or throwing wood at a fire that is already very grown. You've been running the whole legislature trying to...]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u48	Mr. Coscubala, I beg you to return to the Castilian. One sentence is fine, but please speak Spanish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u49	By courtesy to all of you I have given the translation to the 'Diary of Sessions'.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u50	It's not a problem of courtesy, it's a problem of regulation. Please speak Spanish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u51	Mr. Tardà has advanced earlier, but it's not bad. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the best practical example of what is happening in this country, and I could finish my speech with it, but I will not. I cannot use one of my languages, Catalan, in the Congress of Deputies; instead, if you come to the Parliament of Catalonia you will be able to use, logically and legally, the Spanish perfectly. With this is absolutely all said. This country will not recognize itself until it assumes that that is only possible if it accepts to be a plurinational and plurilingual country, and unfortunately people like you prevent it just by fishing four votes, which also do not fish. This is the real situation of domination that is currently taking place in this country. In Catalonia, for example, by showing you the reality I know, there is no real possibility of being fully attended to by the entire public administration in Catalan; it is not, for example, in the administration of justice. Instead, you never care about that, so I think your interest in people's rights is anything but sincere. He is so insincere, so insincere, that he should look at what he has done in this motion. In the interpellation the other day he said - I quote literally -: Protecting the right to use either of the two official languages is the objective of this interpellation. Then comes the motion and you are either very false or very useless making motions, because then the only thing you do in the first paragraph of your motion is to quote the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Spanish Constitution, which speaks of Spanish as an official language. Instead, they forget the second and third paragraphs, which also recognize the character of other languages and mandate the State to protect them. See if they're fake. Moreover, they permanently use fallacy; they are the kings of fallacy, and today they have done so again. The one that they like most is the fallacy of the straw man; you know, the one in which one invents a false argument to the contrary, or even invents an attitude that does not exist on the part of the adversary, in order to combat it better. You invent a problem and present yourself as a 21st century quixote to try to solve it. The problem does not exist in this area, let alone in the education system. What they did with Mr Gorriaran's question the other day and what they did with his inquiry has no ver-guen-za po-li-ti-ca; I tell you in those terms. Trying to play with the Catalan educational system is very dangerous, as well as being a lie. To say, as Mr Gorriaran said, that there is a 20-point differential of school failure in relation to people who speak Spanish, in addition to being an incredible demagogy, is to confuse the citizenry. What makes school failure more important in certain sectors of the population - by the way, it is not school failure; it is social failure of a society that is not capable of dealing with diversity - is not the language but its social condition. Where the most important levels of school failure occur, there are situations of poverty, poverty and difficulty for parents to care for their children, as well as fewer resources to care for that diversity. [[Applauds]] You know what that is? Do you know what that fallacy is? You, who are very educated people - which does not exempt you from falling permanently into fundamentalism, you can be cult and fundamentalist at the same time - use a fallacy that also has post hoc name ergo propter hoc, that is, if one thing comes before the other one thing is cause of the other. No, that people speak Spanish is not the reason that they have greater school failure, it is primarily their social condition. Although, honestly, playing the fallacy, today's, which is really the fallacy for antonomasy of his motion is the one known as the fallacy ad nauseam. You know it's the one that says that one thing becomes more certain the more times it repeats itself. Well, repeating a false statement to nausea does not make it more certain, although, that does cause many nausea; political nausea, of course, but nausea. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u52	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d ́Unió, first of all, Mrs Surroca.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u53	Thank you, Madam President. In the two minutes I have for my speech I announce that the Members of the European Union are going to vote against this motion. Why? Because it is a false and electoralist motion, as some spokesman has already said before me in the use of the word. This motion does not respond to a real situation, on the contrary; what you mentioned in the inquiry that took place in this House last week, the same thing you reiterated today in your speech, does not correspond to reality. That is why we say it is an absolutely false motion. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Díez, linguistic coexistence is not a problem in Catalonia, but quite the contrary, and the data confirm this. The alleged situation giving rise to this motion does not exist. In his speech last week he argued that languages do not live together, have no rights, do not need protection, but that it is the citizens who live together and the depositaries of rights. You said that what you wanted with the inquiry was to protect the effective rights of citizens, Mrs Díez. In Catalonia it is not necessary for you to intervene to protect citizens' rights because they are properly protected, and the data corroborate this, Mrs Díez. In addition, you make a fully manipulated interpretation or reading of the Constitution - another spokesman who has preceded me in speaking has been reminded of this. It is a pity that you, when reading article 3 of the Constitution - you have also incorporated it in the text of the motion - only point out the first paragraph. I am going to the second, Mrs Díez, and especially the third, which establishes the richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain, a cultural heritage which must be the object of special protection and respect. Perhaps that third paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution is the one that is to a lesser extent complied with, and we have many examples of that. We have had many examples throughout this legislature. The policies of this and previous governments have shown little or sometimes no respect for the different languages that exist in the Spanish territory, as well as very little interest in their protection. There is nothing wrong with protecting a language, Mrs Díez, and we do so in Catalonia, with total normality and in a peaceful manner. I told him at the beginning of my speech that linguistic coexistence in Catalonia is absolutely peaceful, and we have also been and are examples of that. The model of linguistic immersion is a great example of this situation that we live in Catalonia, of the richness that gives us this coexistence. In Catalonia there is no confrontation that you pose. It is simply a false and totally electoral motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we are going to vote against this motion. Sometimes there are issues that you don't understand. I'll try to explain it one more time now that almost everyone's out of here. What is the social contract? The social contract is a tacit agreement between citizens and a State to represent them, defend them and guarantee their freedoms, and under that social contract citizens are entitled to a number of elements; for example, they are entitled to have that State guarantee and protect its own language. If we add to this another aspect that seems very relevant to me, repeating some arguments of Mr Coscubiela, in Catalonia this social contract was applied with a very important will, which was to encourage the whole population to be able to speak two languages; some already did so at home, but others did not. It is precisely these - to which Mr Coscubiela referred - who had to be given greater protection. Therefore, the teaching, the normalization of Catalan was to give an instrument, a social elevator to whom most needed it. This has been a spectacular success. That is why, Mrs Díez, we are so concerned that you are interfering with this timeless motion on a subject that we feel is so important.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u56	Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u57	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Let me finish something that's very important. More important than laws are words, and the best words are those of poets. Let me finish Espriu, who says... [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u58	Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u59	Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u60	Mrs Díez, take a decision for the purpose of accepting or rejecting the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u61	Thank you, President. As I said before, I have submitted a compromise to the two parliamentary groups which have tabled amendments. I'm waiting for both of you to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u62	He's waiting. Okay, thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the perspectives of the Spanish Government on the future of Catalonia. [[Señor Tardà]] [[File number 173/000233]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u63	We shall therefore move on to the next motion, in this case the Joint Group, on the perspectives of the Spanish Government on the future of Catalonia. [[Mr. Tardà]] For your defense, Mr. Tardà. [[Pause]] Mr. Tardà is absent. You're giving up the motion, Mr. Bosch? Say it, because you're still a congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u64	Mr. Tardà will be here in a moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise three ideas at the beginning of this motion. First of all, we want independence because we have a right to it. Secondly, there is no turning back because it has been decided by Catalan citizens democratically, that is, because there is a democratic mandate that must be fulfilled and because democracy is sacred and unbeatable. Thirdly, we want you to abandon the useless threats and to acknowledge that this independenceist majority exists in Catalonia. From here, precisely because nothing is built from imputation, from the disqualification or from the corruption of the constitutional organs, we talk about how we make the transition to independence, so that it is as friendly as possible among our peoples. Please note that the two key words of this motion are recognition and negotiation. In fact, there will be a vote here today that will be the final photo of this legislature. Know that our goal is nothing but to build a country, which we will call a republic, for the benefit of the citizens of Catalonia, and to equip ourselves with the instruments proper to a State to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century; that is, to be able to decide freely on infrastructures, social policies, labour laws, self-government, taxation..., all this for the benefit of people. In short, it is about reaching a scenario in which the big decisions that affect people are decided in Barcelona and not here. All this against no one; on the contrary, accomplices, fraternally solidarity, with the peoples of the present Spanish State, that is, in freedom, from freedom. Unfortunately, the power and the Spanish political system is the one that is and is not going to change, and there is no other; if there is, it is not expected, because neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party, which will continue to be the majority forces, are going to change this Spain, which is centralist, monarchical, coinciding with an unjust fiscal system, Spain from: in Spain Spanish. I can also refer to some examples. When the Scottish Independence Party reached 43% of the vote in the 2012 vote, less than the sovereignists did on 27 September, it became worthy to negotiate with the British right, and this resulted in the agreement to hold a referendum in 2014. What did the British Labour Party do? Don't put a stop to it. Look at the difference between the Socialist Workers' Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Moreover, even those who have not yet arrived - I mean Podemos, for example, and its leader, Pablo Iglesias -, even they do not even claim to make substantial, truncated changes in this Spanish political system; and if they intended to do so they would not allow it, because there is a corrupt Constitutional Court in their functions, sold to the great Spanish political parties, and because the constitutional reform also requires two thirds of these Courts in order to be able to change. I mean, without the People's Party and without the PSOE there's nothing at all. That is, it is easier to create a Catalan state than to change the Spanish state; in other words, it is easier to create the Catalan republic than to change the Spanish monarchy. In fact, Republican comrades, you should be the first to trust in the Catalan constituent process, because the only hope - I believe, we believe - for the Spanish state to be given a constituent process that would lead to the hope of proclaiming the Spanish republic, this scenario, is only possible if the Catalan republic is previously proclaimed. I say this to the Republican comrades of the United Left because, moreover - since thanksgiving - they have also been involved in the demand in this Parliament to be able to hold a referendum, which today is absolutely aborted. Finally, I would like to address our compatriot Joan Baldoví, a valencianist and a leftist man, and our Basque brothers from PNV, Amaiur, Geroa Bay and our Galician brothers from the Galego Nationalist Block. You more than anyone else understand the historical moment that we live in Catalonia because we have shared struggles and hopes for decades, because we feel, you and we, responsible for maintaining and transmitting a national consciousness marred by so many adversities, because we know that we will never abandon ourselves. I'm done. Therefore, to the brothers of Galicia and Euskal Herria, be aware that in the Catalan Republic you will always have the firm and sincere support to achieve your full sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u66	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. No amendments have been tabled to this motion. We therefore move on to position-fixing. Firstly, by the Group of the European Parliament, Mr Lleonart.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tardà, you are bringing us a motion to which we are going to refer with two points which you say exactly: 'The Congress of Deputies urges the Spanish Government to: 1. Recognize the majority will of the people of Catalonia expressed in the 27-S elections to form an independent State. Two. Commit to negotiating with Catalonia during its independence process'. Come on, yes or yes. We're going to do a theoretical exercise and accept a posteriori that this was plebiscite elections. With the results that you sang here in this seat when you did the interpellation, last time, Junts pel If you got 47.74 % of the votes cast, that is you have lost, which is what you have to do is dedicate yourself to govern. I'm going to read you a series of headlines taken out of the press that disassemble this independenceist theory of good people-centred management. The breakdown of public health in Catalonia is the worst in Spain, after those in the Valencia Community and the Canary Islands. The autonomous health budget has one of the lowest rates in Spain. In 2014, 146 hospitals were private compared to 65 public hospitals, while in the rest of Spain 309 private hospitals compared to 345 public hospitals. I do not yet understand how an autonomous community unable to manage and deliver quality public health would be better as a country than as an autonomous community. We're still with headlines. Catalonia spends on pensions 4,544 million more than it earns for contributions, a gap that occurs in the 4 Catalan provinces, not in one, but in the four. It spends more than it enters, said quite simply. This, should it be an independent country, without solidarity among the autonomous communities, would lead to a start from a situation of bankruptcy, with which its proposal of independence is frankly irresponsible and almost suicidal, or involves suicide for millions of Catalans. The figures of the Generalitat, the Catalonia of Mas, in the tail van of social spending. It devotes 20% less than the Community average, and this has a much higher unemployment rate than the Community average. My parliamentary group, UPyD, finds it difficult to believe that an autonomous community that invests little in social protection would change its mind when it became an independent country, and the truth is that if it did so it would prove a certain sadism very difficult to justify. We're on. 21% of Catalans live below the poverty line, a point more than a year ago. The risk of poverty or social exclusion was 26% of the population in 2014, almost two points above the previous year. Wow, the pink world of independence is no longer so justified. In short, and to conclude, concretely, when they will stop generating conflicts - every time there are elections it is shown that they have less social support - and they will dedicate themselves to what really matters, which is to protect people, to govern for people's interests, to focus on people, to manage as it is for a good government. Repeat, they've lost. Do more to rule and less to wave flags. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u68	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u69	Thank you, Madam President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] I have the impression - I do not know if you share it with me - that the script of this session has been written by my friend Torres Mora and, in order to be right, is doing ventriloquist, first of all, of Mrs Diez and, now, of my friend Tardà to prove exactly what he has explained in his speech. Beyond that image that I have had let me tell you, to the comrades of the Republican Left of Catalonia, that I hope you also consider us brothers from the point of view that the reading of the results of 27 September does not conform to reality. Independence is not only legitimate but it also has important social support in Catalonia, no doubt; but you cannot draw those conclusions that draw your motion from the results of 27 September, because that would entail a certain risk of serious democratic manipulation. September 27 was not a referendum - you know, it's obvious -; from the result many things can be detached, especially mandates for the majority of the Parliament of Catalonia, but never, ever, can be understood as a position similar to a referendum or whatever it may seem. It is true that people voted in plebiscite. In the end Junts pel Yes, the CUP, People's Party and Ciutadans managed to vote on that plebiscite key, and that must be acknowledged; but that does not allow anyone to present these results as the expression of the democratic will of the people of Catalonia as if it were a referendum. I have said this many times and, as I usually say, I am disqualified, also in Catalonia, I want to quote here a voice of authority, Alex Salmond. He said it before the elections and after; he said it with his marathon runner experience, of having endured insistently: Never, never, ever will elections ever be able to replace the necessary essential referendum. I hope it can be done soon, during 2016, in Catalonia. From that point of view, for our opposite position, for our vote not in favour of your motion there are democratic reasons, some, and efficiency reasons, others. Democratic reasons are that you can't even start a Catalan republic, you can't start a constituent process, which involves strengthening and breaking democracy, making the first gesture the denial of the right to decide in a freely accepted referendum. [[Applauds]] You can't, because that means doing the favor to those who want to deny us the voice and the right to decide. Of course, another thing is that if the Spanish Government that comes out after the elections on 20 December continues to refuse the referendum, it will be legitimate for the citizens of Catalonia to continue to exert elements of mobilization, pressure and very possibly raising the tone, because when you try to dialogue and the one you have before does not dialogue, there is no other way than to overcome their resistance in the only way possible, that is to mobilize, pressure, demand that you be heard and that the dialogue can be opened from that point of view. There is also another argument, that even some of the supporters of Catalonia's independence, for example, the CUP comrades, repeated before the elections, and that if there are no at least 50% votes, it is not possible to consider that there is a majority will for independence. I'm trying to argue, because it's more things that unite us than it is that separates us. That is why I believe that what Joan Tardà proposes to us today, on behalf of the Republican Left of Catalonia, is not appropriate, although I understand that she wants to put it as a last act. And it's not a photo finish, Joan, the photo finish hasn't arrived, the photo finish will come with the referendum we're going to make, because there's no other way to do it, and because we would be wrong if we played the game to those who prevent us from exercising that democratic right. Nothing can be started, a break-up or a constituent process cannot be started by denying the voice to the citizenry, which is just one of the reasons why this constituent process can be launched. By the way, you will understand that you take this opportunity today to thank, and greatly appreciate, the political courage of the comrades of the Group of the Plural Left, in particular, of the United Left, who on 8 April 2014 voted in favour of the holding of the referendum, playing on many occasions some political forces critical elements at times when elections were about to be held, for example, in Andalusia, which were close. I would like to acknowledge this because it values your deep conviction of what democracy is and how it is exercised. I end with a very clear question. We're gonna meet, sure, but let me tell you the following, because when I talk to Joan Tardà I need to be honest and loyal, because he's a real friend. I need to be honest right now. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Let me be very honest with you. To think that there is no force to force a referendum and there is strength to proclaim the Catalan Republic is to think that the law of political gravity has disappeared from the world, and that can be thought of, but I sincerely believe that we are doing ourselves a weak favor. In any case, to think that you can constitute a kind of anti-capitalist village ruled by Arthur Mas, Xavier Sala i Martín, Mas-Colell and Mr. Amat, you need to have a lot of imagination or a lot of self-deception. I know you don't believe that either, and that's what we agreed on. That's why I end up telling you something, my friend Joan. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u70	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Convergence Group i d'Unió, first of all, Mrs Surroca.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tardà, in this motion the seven Members of the Union will abstain. It is not our custom to make a battlefield of political debate, and if that is always the case, today it is even more so for two reasons: this is the last plenary session of this legislature and why we fight, Mr Tardà, and in addition, we debate about Catalonia and among Catalans, why give the taste to those who enjoy seeing our differences, by the way, typical of a mature and plural society. As I have said, we are going to abstain not without pointing out to you that your motion has a marked electoral character. As on so many other occasions, Esquerra takes the legitimate but very partisan initiative, without devoting a single second before to seeking the unity of the Catalan forces with parliamentary representation. If in the actual forms and motives of Esquerra's motion we already find reasons not to share it, in the background the reasons are amplified. Mr Tardà, it will not be the Union that discusses a parliamentary success of the candidacy in which Esquerra Republicana was integrated on 27 September, but this recognition allows me to remind you with authority that the objective described in the first point of the motion does not coincide with reality. There is a vast, vast majority that wants independence in Catalonia, that is so, and ignoring it from state institutions seems to me to be irresponsible, but there is no independent majority, there are no votes, which is what counts, if what is intended is to legitimize the demand for independence. There are seats, yes, but the CUP itself repeated as active and passive in the election campaign that this was insufficient and that votes were also needed. On September 29, the editorial of the Financial Times made it clear: elections do not give the right to break with Spain. This was also said by our spokesman, Duran i Lleida, last Saturday: they do force Spain and its institutions to take Catalonia's demands very seriously. In addition, Mr Tardà, I believe that the first task of your party is to guarantee a government and its political stability in Catalonia, to tell the citizens of Catalonia where we really are and what they are going to do in Catalonia; what is not appropriate is to cover up their inability to form government and to guarantee the investiture of Mas with an attempt to show once again that all the blame is on others. With regard to the second point of the motion, of course it wanted the Government to sit down and negotiate. The only possibility of resolving Catalonia's demands in the context of an election result that clearly presents a split to the citizenry is through the negotiation and the transaction - today has said very well the councillor of Enterprise of the Generalitat referring to the possibility of a new scenario to negotiate after the 20D - but there is one problem: neither independence has a majority support in votes neither this government nor another that comes out of December 20th will want to negotiate the secession of Catalonia. It will be necessary to raise other content in that negotiation, to try an agreement and to submit it to consultation, and in order to negotiate it is clear that it will need someone who has dedicated himself to building bridges and has not lost his credibility in the endeavour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tardà, I am not going to speak in particular to you, as almost all the speakers have done, but to the whole House to remind you that at the beginning of this parliamentary term, according to the demoscopic studies, the support for independence was around 10 or 15% and the results of the elections on 27 September clearly show, Mr UPyD spokesman, that the majority, a very significant majority, greater than the one won in Scotland by the sovereignist government for the first time, higher than the one won in Quebec by the sovereignist government for the first time, 48 % of the Catalans and Catalans, finally gives up the opportunity of the autonomous state in the face of the myopia and inaction of the People's Party, which should reflect on this development of the facts. We should bear in mind that 11% of voters, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and Union, asked that they should not be counted in the no, with which their claim is not true, and that 35% were in favour of the no, with which the first point is evident. And so is the second, ladies and gentlemen, on the need for an agreement, as signed by the parties and civil society entities, on the road map. When we voted yes on the second point, we did so according to the philosophy of the road map, of that agreed between the parties, following as an example of what could be Spain and is not the model of the referendum in Scotland, a referendum that must be held sooner or later. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the position of the Convergence i d'Unió Parliamentary Group. If I may, Madam President, I conclude by saying that this is my last intervention in the legislature and, following Mr Guillaumes, I will not say goodbye in case, even though today at 4:28 p.m. in the e-mail of all the Members of Parliament we have received a message from the discharge bulletin in the Association of Members of Parliament, something which causes a certain chill and which could be postponed for a few days. It's a bit of a black mood, but we'd need a few days of breathing and understanding if that were the case. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dedicate my last words on behalf of my group in this speech before our spokesman, Mr Pere Macias, speaks on behalf of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia on the last item on the agenda. In March 1984 I was eleven years old and was in the plenary hall of Olot City Hall when Mr. Macias was elected mayor of Olot at the age of twenty-seven. He started an excellent career as mayor, president of the parliament, councillor of Medi Ambient, councillor of Territorial Policy, deputy in the Parliament of Catalonia, spokesman in the Senate and deputy spokesman and our spokesman in Congress. Let me just say that for a moment this person who has reasoned, dialogued and reached tangible and community-friendly goals...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u74	Mr. Xuclà, Don Pere Macias is here and I hope for a long time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u75	Can I finish in 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u76	Yes, please, but finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u77	I told him to allow me to move for a moment to the dialect of our land, of Olot, of the Garrotxa, to say: Pere, you have done very well and you have restored to us the dignity and political sense of our actions. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] We wish you the best in personal terms for yourself and your family and for the civic commitment that you will continue to develop with full dedication and love to our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u78	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. For the Socialist Group, Mr Vallès.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Tardà, with the utmost respect and affection that you know I have, let me tell you that I don't know exactly what brought us here today. I do not know what you are asking of this House today. You won the elections on the 27th, but the problem is that it was you who gave those elections a plebiscite character. The vow of his life, they said. Do you remember? And there they lost. You yourself have been the ones who have gotten into a mess of numbers and percentages that leads nowhere, and that is an obvious symptom of despair. Mr Tardà, I ask you to stop interpreting the vows of the no and start counting the vows of the yes, because these are clear. There's no doubt here. Whoever wanted independence knew very well who he had to vote for and also knew how his votes were going to be added; and there they lost. They lost because they did not reach 48% of the vote and, although these elections were not a referendum, it is clear that by not reaching 50% this process cannot have the slightest course. In other words, Mr Tardà, you have won the elections, but there is no majority of Catalans willing to support a unilateral declaration of independence. Do you really want this motion to be used today to negotiate something, Mr. Tardà? I think rather that you want them to be given independence without more - without more, finally, understand the play of words -, to be given an independence that you have not been able to win in the ballot boxes. The most serious thing is that if I were the Government of Spain right now, I would not know very well who I would have to address, whether you, Mr Mas or Mr Baños de la CUP. Who's in charge of Catalonia, Mr. Tardà? Who is the institutional interlocutor of the Generalitat de Catalunya? On whose behalf are you speaking here today, if you still don't know what you want, if you don't have a president or a government or a program. Let's be serious. Coming here today with this motion is at least a bit daring. Ladies and gentlemen, if one thing is clear, neither you nor the People's Party will be able to solve this. The solution will come from another side. You know why? Because problems cannot be solved at the same level of consciousness with which they were created. You cannot articulate a solution because the ideological abyss you have caused between a part of the Catalans and Spain is stratospheric, and because, as Willy Brandt said, mental barriers usually survive more than concrete barriers. Obviously, the solution will also not come from the hands of the People's Party or Rajoy, which has been the main cause of the disaffection between Catalonia and Spain since they started collecting signatures against Catalonia at those small tables in order to be able to appeal the Statute to the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] Today we have a problem of coexistence, and the solution requires skill, dialogue, pact, height of sight, consensus, sense of state and responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to reform the institutional architecture of this country, it is inescapable. We must reform the Constitution and modernise the territorial organization of the State with a net federal bet, but not to satisfy the independenceist aspirations, but because we are aware that the Constitution has to be updated. The Constitution is a pact of coexistence, the Constitution has to be the reflection of society, it has to reflect the richness and plurality of the country, and if citizens do not feel it as their own and are not recognized in it, it does not serve as a Constitution. That is why we have to update it, and that is what we are going to do; we are going to reform the Constitution, we are going to update it by commitment, conviction, historical responsibility, political responsibility and democratic responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the main problem of the times we live in is that many of the leaders of this country did not think of being useful to the citizens, but rather thought of being important. In recent years there has been an excess of symbolism, an overdose of emotional burden, many feelings, a lot of testosterone, but very little will to agree, very little will to provide solutions and a true vocation of political utility. The present moment requires determination. Therefore, we will change the order of priorities, to ensure a future of coexistence, and we will do so very soon. This is, ladies and gentlemen, our commitment, and I am sure, Mr Tardà, that from your profound independenceist convictions, when you see it you will appreciate the goodness and benefits of the federal progress of this country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u80	Thank you, Mr Vallès. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Tardà, you'd have to come here today to admit your failure. It is a failure before your voters, it is a failure of Catalonia as a whole, it is a failure before the international community, and it is also a failure that is already ridiculous, the same ridiculous that you yourself have made in the intervention of the previous motion. [[Applauds]] You just change your faces, because as you fail, you have to change your faces. Àngel Colom, Carod-Rovira, Puigcercós, Joan Ridao, Alfred Bosch, Junqueras have already been touched. Where did Romeva, Forcadell and Muriel Casals come from? We'll see that sooner they'll fall, too. Don't worry, Mr. Joan Tardà, maybe it'll be up to you to be next. Let's also talk about CDC, which is not short. Despite being the hegemonic party in all the Catalan elections, despite the fact that the Federation of CiU, of Convergence and Union, has been the greatest political success in Catalonia, CiU has disappeared and neither CDC nor Union have any parliamentary group in the Parliament of Catalonia; we would never have imagined it any of us here, but you, Esquerra and CDC, continue to burn faces, because your project constantly loses its face in Catalonia, in the rest of Spain and in the world. What do you call this? Success. We call it failure. You, the independents of CDC and Esquerra, want to get us into legal fiction, so everything you say is always wet paper, as the best of populisms, as the best of exclusionary nationalisms. You're the best face of the worst, and it's time we unmasked you. This is the greatness of democracy, which you, Mr Tardà, can say the nonsense you want from this rostrum and I can, from this rostrum, denounce and expose them clearly, without the manipulation of TV3. In an independent Catalonia this could not do so. [[Applauds]] When are you going to recognize the frustration that you store after you have spent in thirty years all the public resources of Catalonia, of all Catalans, in generating a nationalist propaganda machine that has left no room for the freedom of others, that has totally coerced us, that has nothing to do with legality and that has broken us as a society, has broken us between Catalans and the rest of Spain? When are you going to admit this frustration, which is only yours and that you want to transfer us to us? [[Applauds]] Don't move it; it's your frustration. We're not in frustration. There has not been a Spain that has stolen, there has been a nationalism that has stolen all Catalans. How many resources have you drawn from public health? How many hospital plants have been shut down to feed the insatiable monster of nationalist propaganda machinery? How many resources have you drawn from education - we still have in Catalonia a thousand school sheds - simply to feed this exclusive and sectarian machine? [[Applauds]] Please, Mr. Tardà, get off the donkey now. Listen to that whisper. We've been listening to her screams and her noise for thirty years. I only ask you to listen to our whisper, those reasonable words, without shouts and with reason of the great majority of Catalans who have said to you on 27 September prou, enough, prou, enough already, let us live in coexistence, in harmony and freedom between all Catalans and the rest of Spanish, between our relatives, our friends, our companions and strangers from all corners of Spain. Let us live in Europe. [[The President took the Chair.]] As far as you are concerned, you have not managed to get more than 36% of Catalan voters to support the Junts for Yes. Doesn't it make you think that the remaining 64% tells you that enough is enough, prou? Please open your eyes. They're democrats, they don't just look like it. The election night of 27 September I saw it very clearly, on 27 September it was a great opportunity, but not to break Spain or divide the Catalans more, but an opportunity for everyone, for Catalonia, for Spain and for Europe, because Spain is a great nation and has always shown it, and when it has shown it more it has been in the worst moments, as in this economic crisis that we have all suffered, because it is the constant history of overcoming and success of all Spaniards from all corners of Spain, a story hilvanada in Catalan, Spanish, Galician, Basque, Valencia. [[Applauds]] It's a story of all generations, it's a story of all ideologies, it's a story we've built without ever excluding anyone. You want to build a new country by excluding everyone absolutely. This is the great greatness of Spain. Spain has been built like the... [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] No one's left. The greatness of our democracy and our constitutional values is to ensure coexistence. This has been the great challenge since 1978 and this is the great challenge of contemporary and modern Spain, and this is where the People's Party will always be. That's what I'm saying, clear and uncomplex. The People's Party defends that it will never negotiate the secession of Catalonia and will never discuss the unity of Spain. This is our essence and our vertebrate axis. But in the face of their breakup, their division, we will continue to build bridges. Faced with falsehood and misrepresentation, we will continue with the truth and with the word. Faced with the anachronism of nationalism, we propose modernity, globalization and living in a Europe without walls. In the face of illegality, we will abide by the law that we have given ourselves among all. In the face of exclusions, the freedom of those who think differently will prevail. In the face of unnecessary propagandist spending, the People's Party Government will continue to invest in education, health, job creation and exiting the economic crisis in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Faced with those who look at shoes, we will be looking into the eyes of the 7.5 million Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards, and we will ask them if they will help us to continue to build this great nation of freedom, of the state of social and democratic law. Mr. Tardà, we're in this. Only then will Catalonia regain that lost pride and admire us in the rest of Spain, and only then will we make it easier for Catalonia to regain its entrepreneurship, common sense and vitality. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] This can only be done together and with the word. Mr. Tardà, I'll wait for you there. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u83	Amendments approved by the Senate to the State General Budgets Bill for 2016. In turn of fixing positions, we started with the Joint Group. First of all, Mr Serrano has the floor. [[Rumors]] I'm sorry, Mr. Serrano, before you begin, please, I beg your silence. Those who wish to leave the plenary will do so, but I beg your silence. Go ahead, Mr. Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, members of the government, as I am convinced that if there was God he would be the only one who could be wrong in everything, I am willing to give them reason in at least one thing. Against all the forecasts of all the other analytical bodies, be it the European Commission or the OECD, you are actively and passively proclaiming that your forecasts are the most correct, that these other bodies have been wrong on other occasions and in this too. Well, I'm going to grant you that yes, that they can all be wrong, but, look, it seems more than clear that you are wrong, too. Between all these organisms and you there is a basic point in common: your paradigms of calculation, those of you and those of those organisms, are the same, false all from the same premise of which you start; that famous neoliberal premise according to which society is but the sum of the individuals who make up it, as if all individuals were equal, we had the same income, the same tastes and dislikes, as if each individual responded to the prototype of the statistical average and its simple sum constituted a society without groups, without subgroups, without classes, at their income levels or in their preferences, tastes and capacity for consumption. Only that you, at this electoral juncture, have to contemplate that there are ballots; sociopolitical groups by age, by culture, by everyday interests and not so daily to those who have to sell their economic, fiscal and hope recipes in the product. In these budgets, you do that of the classic unscrupulous cattle dealer: comb and shine the animal's fur to make it look young and full of life ahead. That is, not to reject the criteria of the experts of that fake market, to accept them on foot joints; but, yes, to make their buyers believe that their goods are healthy and promising. You know the criteria and methods of this type of market; you know your mathematics; you accept it with the faith of the coalman, but you also call some of the variables for your calculations; and you call them so blatantly that these mentor agencies have to draw attention to them. But they don't care; it's about selling their merchandise even if it's broken. It's about selling it by charging for votes from unsuspecting buyers. It is about pointing out to those who say: man, hide your calculations a little more, appear a little more rigorous, it is about pointing out to those who this tell you as fallible; so many previous predictions using it as proof. Yes, of course these bodies are also fallible; after all, they use the same false bases and premises as you, but without the cheating of the cattle dealer that you develop for the interests of the electoral market. They are not going to withdraw these budgets, but they know very well that the next government, after the new elections, even if you were in it, will have to change them, will have to resort to more cuts or more tax increases to the current consumer. But by then, if you achieve your electoral goal, with your mark or with the support of other new, virgin brands, the unsuspecting buyers at your cattle fair will no longer be able to do anything but swallow their complaints, drowned by that law bite that they have foresawly imposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Almost all the speakers will speak for the Joint Group. Please stick to the agreed time. I now give the floor to Mr Salvador.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am speaking on behalf of the Navarro People's Union for the last time in this legislature, and I am doing so to claim politics as a necessary, noble and dignified activity in the service of the common good. To claim the value of working for what unites us and to recognize the shared effort that all Spanish society has made in these four years so complicated and so difficult. I would especially like to thank all those who at this time decided to take a step forward to change a state of affairs that only led to failure. It is those who took on the commitment and responsibility to bring this country out of a crisis with terrible social effects, hitherto unknown or forgotten, while others at the same time simply sought in demagogy and opportunism a comfortable mockery from which to attend the challenge that we all had to face, without wanting to help, profile ourselves, or insisting on magical recipes that have not historically solved our country's problems or were applied when those who reiterate them today ruled. Ladies and gentlemen, my party believes in the need to remain ambitious with our country. We know that we can be better, that we must be rigorous with public accounts and that we must be more transparent in the management of the competences of all administrations. If I had to choose a motto for the next legislature, this would be: Let's get to know each other more to help each other better. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Navarro People's Union, we will continue to defend Navarra; we will claim its symbols, its institutions, its history, its fury, the signs of its millennial political personality, such as this, its flag; the flag of all the Navarras, which symbolizes its existence and its being and the desire to be of an entire people. [[Show Navarra's flag]] A flag with a shield that was incorporated centuries ago into the shield of all and that today enriches the signs of identity of Spain. Here is our shield, also represented behind where the president sits, above, to the right, and so we want many ships to remain in the future. In the next parliamentary term, ladies and gentlemen, my party will return to this house, for sure, to defend our political personality against now institutionalized impositions and lies; to guarantee the continuity of our own institutions; to claim our history, our own and our shared; so that no one questions the constitutionality of our outside regime; to highlight a tradition of political loyalty, which is the key to the future of the continuity of Spain - without political loyalty, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no project suggestive of life in common - and, of course, to deepen ties of affection and solidarity with the rest of the Spaniards, not to break them or to break them or pervert them, as some claim. We will return to this house, ladies and gentlemen, to claim, with all humility but also with pride, that from the Foral Community of Navarra we will not only work to improve the life of the shipwrecks but also with our own voice, as so far, we will collaborate in the construction of a better future for all Spaniards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. In this last speech I will admit that they do not focus on the specific issue, but it would be useful at some point to mention the Senate amendments. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr Álvarez Sostres has the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are in the final parliamentary process for the approval of the budgets for 2016. Let me tell you that the feeling of disdain adds to a certain impotence when I think of the deal received by my land, Asturias. It is not easy to recognize more humiliations and harassments than those in these budgets, which received 67 amendments without being accepted or a coma both in Congress and in the Senate, as happened in previous years, up to 189 in this legislature. I wonder, Mr Montoro, were all the amendments so bad as not to accept one? For several weeks now, the Government has been transferring the goodness of these accounts, but this is not the case with the European Commission, which questions its rigour and electoral excesses. We also question it in Asturias. Asturias is the most impoverished autonomous community in Spain in the last six years, with negative data, tending to worsen, according to all studies - Banco Bilbao, Funcas...-, which I will not repeat for incontestable. The investment in Asturias of the budgets is simply demolishing, with the lowest budget since the year 2000 and with a decrease since the year 2011 of 44.7. The Asturian entrepreneurs, after five years of autism, rated as disappointing for Asturias the general budgets because they say they keep it stagnant in endless projects of the past. It's about time, businessmen of Asturias. The most serious of the serious things is the rail isolation of Asturias, which will continue. I think there's someone who may be very interested and is doing very well in this operation. It is no longer denied that our future does not pass by having high speed to go to Asturias. Now, the high speed dies in León, and now the canteen blooms that the trip to Madrid is cut in forty minutes, at the cosmic speed of 68 kilometers per hour from León to Gijón. Ladies and gentlemen, with mixed traffic in the variant, which is one of the fantasies of the Socialist Party - which is responsible for this calamity - the truth is that the disguise is made. Coal galloped towards closure and now in the Senate they have not even passed an amendment from the Socialist Party on the health cent. In short, we are not even paid the debts of the courts. I therefore denounce for the umpteenth time throughout the legislature that they are laying the foundations for a terrible, chronic and endless crisis in Asturias. I maintain my vote against these budgets. I will conclude, Mr President - with your generosity - by transferring that this is my last speech in this Chamber on behalf of my Foro Asturias party. Let me tell you that being a member of this legislature, presided over by Don Jesús Posada, with such a democratic and conciliatory atmosphere, has been a distinction and an honour that has meant showing you the problems of my land and at the same time the need for the Government of Spain to help us. It has also been a privilege and a distinction to know all of you and to be part of the Joint Group of the Congress of Deputies, of which I have always testified that it is a true school of democratic coexistence and tolerance. I have experienced a great live lesson thanks also to the collaboration of my friend Santiago Trujillo, who has been no stranger to any of my interventions. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you all very much, Members.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Álvarez Sostres, for your words. I now give the floor to Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we have deposited the ashes of Francesc de Paula Burguera in the pavilion of illustrious of the Swedish cemetery. Francesc de Paula Burguera was closely associated with the Congress of Deputies; he was a member of the Legislature for the period 1977-1979 and head of the press of the Convergence and Union Group. Yesterday I entered his file as a Member and I was able to hear two of his speeches, in which he made a firm defense of the Valencians in the draft Constitution that was finally approved and that already then left us to the Valencians on secondary roads. I am a Valencian politician largely thanks to people like Paco Burguera, a courageous, coherent and dignified politician who marked the way for us and who already thirty-seven years ago denounced a marginalization that has continued the legislature after the legislature, budget after budget. A paradigmatic example: AVE. Provincial capitals such as Huesca, with 52,000 inhabitants, and Toledo, with 83,000 inhabitants, have been connected - I have nothing against it, on the contrary. Valencia had to wait until 2010, with 800,000 inhabitants. The second and third cities of the Spanish state remain unconnected; Valencia and Barcelona remain unconnected. The Mediterranean corridor, with 40 % of the population, more than 40 % of exports, more than 40 % of gross domestic product, more than 70 % of port traffic, is still to be done. These have been their budgets. Like this electoral budget that we should never be discussing and that today will be approved, as always, with the only votes of the PP. And even if they continue with their mantra that they are the budgets of the recovery, they cannot hide that four budgets afterwards there is a clear decrease in total hours worked, in the shelter of the pensions, in coverage of the unemployed; there is an increase in the external debt, an increase in inequality, an increase in the deficit of the trade balance and even workers who earn the minimum interprofessional wage and even less. And as Valencians, five budgets later, we remain very underfunded and have done nothing, not a new system or just amendments. We continue to have investments below average. Over the past five years, the cut has always been above 40%, and that is the only autonomous community that is poorer than the average net payer. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the Valencians have offered so many glories to Spain that we now bitterly see that it costs us more than anyone to be Spanish, very expensive. It is not nationalist victimism, it is a finding of repeated injustice. I'm done. I want to finish my speech with a farewell to everyone who is leaving Congress today. As I play in the league of the little ones, in which we are always playing for the permanence, I do not know if I will be again, but I want to tell you that it has been an honor to share a seat with you, especially with you, Mr President, who has been very kind to me. Finally, a wish I want to see come true on 20 December. Without acrid but with conviction, I want to finish with a goodbye with this little sign that we used in 2007 and that it cost us a little more to make it happen, but that we hope the 20-D will be. [[Show a sign]] Goodbye, PP. Goodbye, PP. For you, Paco.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. It culminates in a legislature with this last budget debate for 2016 and the truth is that what culminates is a legislature in which it seems that what has triumphed has been anti-parliamentarianism, unwiseness and imposition in the face of ideas, agreement and consensus, because none of us have been able to convince you with any misgivings that it was necessary to correct your original budgets. A persistence, as we have reiterated on numerous occasions, especially to Mr Montoro, in policies questioned by the vast majority of the groups in the House, by collectives, by experts, by reality, which has come to show that what has grown in these years of truth has been two things: inequality and poverty. That is what has grown in the Spanish state in recent times. Nothing suspected of being revolutionary, Credit Suisse, in a report a week ago, clearly explains how 1% of the population has benefited in an obscene way from the suffering of the rest of the population. This budget - we have told you - is a false budget, which starts with false assumptions, with simply uncontradicted collection criteria - contrasted so far by reality -; a budget that we label as irresponsible electoralist and which at the time defended the minister - it is probably his obligation - with a triumphalism that we consider offensive to the social majority. The Canarian nationalists have tried to explain our reality, we have tried to explain here why Canaries has suffered this very long crisis in an aggravated way. We've done it with data. We have told you that the Canary Islands has 30% unemployment, 7% more than the rest of the Spanish state. We have explained how child poverty has grown, how youth unemployment is above average. We have explained all these things, and in the face of this we have found an abuse as never before in the recent Spanish democratic history. I have to say it like that. We have not been respected for more than five hundred years of history that is currently formulated and implemented in the Economic and Fiscal Regime of the Canary Islands. I don't know how many times we'll have explained it here. We have said that you have an obligation to comply with our investment policy, in the essential elements to ensure that the Canary Islands is on average among the communities of the Spanish State; no one wants privileges. We have told you that we have not come here to ask for alms or gifts or favors. We have come here to explain the reality and to say that the Canary Islands-State Conventions cannot be breached unilaterally; that comprehensive employment plans cannot be suspended when the unemployment rate is 30% unilaterally; that we cannot be harmed as we have been harmed by the Road Convention, where we have lost more than EUR 700 million in connection with the beginning of this parliamentary term. All these are data with which we have not been able to change their position. It seems that here ultra-liberal ideology has triumphed against logic, against the reality that a lot of people in the Spanish state are suffering. We have an amendment in Section 20 which concerns the City Hall of Aunts in Lanzarote. Even if it's just...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u92	Mr. Quevedo, you have to finish quickly.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u93	We're going to support her because, as happens a few times... Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. I now give the floor to Mrs Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond the amendments adopted by the Senate, all of us in the People's Party, we are now in the final stage of approval of the State General Budgets for 2016, which are budgets with which the government party intends to sweeten its electoral offer for the elections on 20 December. Optimism so out of reality has been invented that they have even been drawn to their attention from elsewhere. The growth forecast made by the Government, Mr Montoro, has been denied both by the figures of the European Commission and by those of the IMF or BBVA, for example; just as its forecast for the deficit has been denied. But this doesn't matter to you. What you want is to make some budgets that say you're going to improve the economy in 2016, and if you rule, there's no problem, that's what the real decree-laws are for, and if you rule others, you shave up. As you have not fulfilled your 2011 programme, what you intend with these budgets is to give credibility to your 2016 programme. I do not know if you think that the destruction that you leave of the Spanish State society is only in the popular imagination, that it is not a reality and that we are going to believe that there is a tremendous goodness because you are creating a lot of jobs, because we are unconscious and do not know that what you are creating is poverty, precariousness. That we are going to believe that with these budgets they will improve the public services that have deteriorated during their four years of government. And we are going to believe, above all, the citizens of the south of the province of Pontevedra, that we are suffering the most serious consequences of their obsession with the privatization of health care, that we are suffering the most serious consequences of a new hospital that we are no longer going to talk about if there is material in condition to operate people, if there are lists in emergencies... No, no, I will sum it up in one sentence: in August, the hospital patients ate hot and, from September, they eat cold, when they eat, because most of the time they have to return the food for useless. This may seem like demagoguery to you, but it is the great reality that is being suffered in many health areas such as the southern zone of Pontevedra with the new hospital of Vigo, thanks to that obsession to make health a business and to make public health a privatization for companies to have profits, earn money. You cannot tell us that with your 2016 budgets you are going to improve people's lives, because people today are living the consequences of the policy of this People's Party government that, as optimistic as your budget is, Mr Montoro, it is not possible for you to deny it, because the reality is blunt. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr Errekondo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets, rather than general budgets, are the electoral budgets of the People's Party; they are fake budgets that the European Commission has denounced for defrauding the deficit. For this reason and for others that we will go on to describe, we call for the immediate withdrawal of them. Four years and five antisocial budgets that involve a trip to the abyss and that can be described with four data; four data to describe the real social drama provoked. More than 5 million unemployed people and only half of them are receiving unemployment, and you, in view of this situation, cut more than 5.5 billion in unemployment and 2.5 billion in active employment policies. More than 3 million euros are missing for dependency; 3,200,000 people suffer from extreme poverty and survive in poverty with less than 332 euros a month, and remember that more than 400,000 people are this year. In the face of this social holocaust you have the cynicism to offer for what you understand as macroeconomic growth, that is, of the economy of the usual lobbies, of the bank robbers, of the Florentine perez, of the ignacio sanchez galan or orange ortega. In these four years you have made the crisis the perfect excuse to rescue your bankers friends and big companies and implement ultra-liberal and re-centralizing austere policies against the most basic rights of citizens such as housing, education, health, labour rights, etc. In addition, when citizens have protested or expressed their anger at having been deprived, precisely, of legitimate social and national rights, the Government of the People's Party has applied the guadaña and the fuck against fundamental freedoms with its brand-new Citizens' Security Act, the Criminal Code Act or the Anti-Jihadist Act. To do so, to criminalize and gag, you do allocate millions of euros in this budget. This is the real and desolating panorama that these four years of government have caused; a government drunk on arrogance and cynicism, which has burned the present and future of hundreds of thousands of families and is still here today to sell smoke and demand the confidence of citizens. In addition, these budgets are committed to re-centralisation and are directed against peoples. These budgets, like the previous ones, rob us of Basque society in every way and that is one more reason to advance in the necessary Basque national sovereignty. Mermaid songs of a possible constitutional reform are heard. We think that if that reform were finally given it would be in the classic keys, something would be changed so as not to change anything; therefore, do not deceive us. [[Rumors]] Have a very clear thing, any version of the Constitution...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u98	Please, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u99	... that it does not pass the slightest democratic examination will be because it does not exceed the recognition of the Basque nation or the right of peoples to decide their own future. Another artificial debate has also been opened, in our view, by some parties on the convention and the concert; an artificial debate, because it is really about sovereignty. We are talking about sovereignty, whether or not we have sufficient tools to guarantee social justice and the civil and political rights of Basque society. That is the debate, whether or not we have sufficient tools to guarantee social justice and the civil and political rights of Basque society. That is why we say more than ever that the Basque way, Euskal Bidea, is the way; a path that begins in Basque citizenship itself and ends in Euskal Herria with an independent state structure; with a Basque society whose citizenship is free and empowered, with the capacity to decide on all issues. We have been dealing with this political conflict for centuries, which you still do not want to address, and these budgets are a further sign of this, to the point that the euro you have invested in the democratic resolution of the Basque political conflict is zero. Zero euros and zero efforts. You are obsessed with victory and victory has nothing to do with peace, because you seek a victory from hatred and revenge and yet Basque society seeks peace, coexistence and democracy. We refer to Mr Alonso, who a few days ago, when asked about Arantza Quiroga and gave a door to the expectations opened for his initiative in the area of peace and coexistence, said that he would do nothing until after the elections. Does the situation affect the entire policy of this Government? Do these elections condition peace and coexistence? We have to say that this is simply a lie, because you allocate large amounts, huge amounts in the budgets to continue exercising the State's violence in Euskal Herria: indiscriminate arrests and trials, hundreds of Basque people imprisoned and driven away by their political commitment. Therefore, you do do do a lot, but in the opposite direction that Basque society demands. Faced with its violent budgets, Basque society has its own budgets with two invincible items: justice and freedom, and the campaign: Free Otegi, free them all. There are two very clear messages, which I advise you to engrave in your colonizing mentality: one, Basque society does not forget the past, but thinks of the present and bets on the future; and two, we are a people who have the stubborn will and the right to heal their wounds, despite the efforts of the Spanish State and the Government of the People's Party to the contrary. I conclude with a conclusion that focuses on two key issues: social sovereignty and national sovereignty. There's no social justice here. The only way to guarantee social justice is through national sovereignty. As Lluís Llach said, we need national sovereignty to then make social sovereignty, sovereignty that is also denied in these budgets. That's why we demanded of the Spanish state two things...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u100	Mr Errekondo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u101	... respect and recognition; recognition of the Basque nation and respect for its free decision. To everyone who believes in Euskal Herria, in a free and supportive Euskal Herria... [[Pronounce words in Basque]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u102	Thank you, Mr Errekondo. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance, Minister for Economic Affairs, Minister for Industry, I have my ministers gathered here, at least those related to my reference. Returns home, returns to the House, after the forced periplo by the Senate, the draft General Budgets of the State for the year 2016, a project, as we have already pointed out in its day, of electoral character and whose main objective is to announce to bombo and platter some measures that, like the return of the pay to the officials, the Government considers positive to fish in the revolt of the electoral river. Like other groups in this House, we believe that the presentation, processing and above all its approval will constitute a democratic fraud in every rule, since another Government, which emerges from the ballot box, will have to modify and manage it. It is a fraud because it is caught through this House in the last few minutes, in the minutes, which are called, as a cauldron of this legislature. This is the last draft that will become law thanks to the only votes of the People's Group that, by the way, has used the Senate's procedure to modify what it considered appropriate or had forgotten to include in its passage through the Congress of Deputies. It is a political scourge that also has its technical and economic problems. We have told the government and now the Commission itself, Mr Moscovici, has told it, however much the ministers here do not want to hear it. Mr Moscovici says that macroeconomic data are unreliable, miscalculated and need to be reviewed. That, in addition to being politically entrepreneurship, is technically more than questionable. The new government will be forced to change them, because even the European Union is going to demand it, no matter how much now the PP government intends to reduce the impact of Mr Moscovici's statements. And it is not that the European Commissioner, gentlemen of the PP, says that common sense, which you have lost for electoral reasons. Nevertheless, my parliamentary group tabled a number of amendments in the Senate, as we had done before in Congress. It will not surprise you - you know perfectly well - if I tell you that the result has been practically nil. We ask you with solid arguments, with comparative data on what had been done in Europe in similar events, to extend the initially budgeted and planned endowment by just 1.5 million euros, to 4.5 million euros, that is to say to increase the contribution to the departure of Donostia, European Capital of Culture 2016. Of the nearly EUR 50 million, the People's Party will only provide a ridiculous 3%. Now, in a magnanimous plan and after beating them - I will say it in a colloquial plan - insistently, instead of 3 million give us 350,000 euros and we say: that's better than nothing. We are so pragmatic and realistic, but we believe that the figure is absolutely insufficient and is far from what it should have been. On the other hand, in order to partially correct an issue which is important to us and which we have been demanding for a very long time, they have included a new third bis final provision to frame in the Special System of Social Security for Sea Workers the Neskatillas and Packers, a specialty of the province of Vizcaya, incorporating them as self-employed persons within the third group of contributions referred to in Article 10. Again with high doses of pragmatism we accept this provision, even though it stays away from our initial demands. We will vote in favour of these two compromise amendments, which my group has defended, and we will abstain in the rest so that no one can consider our position to be unfavourable to them. And with this draft we will conclude the legislative production - I would say fortunately - of these four years of Mr Rajoy and the People's Party, with the absolute majority in this House; that is, with the firm desire that in the next parliamentary term it be legislated in a less chaotic, more consensual and more democratic manner. I'll see you next time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Calduch has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance and Public Administration, the General State Budgets for 2016 are back from the Senate with amendments. At the time my group tabled an amendment to the whole, which was rejected, and more than 240 partial amendments, which were also rejected, where we question the viability of these budgets. At the plenary session of July 15, 2015, I personally told Minister Montoro - I quote textually -: Don't hesitate. This year we will meet, despite its economic forecasts, the deficit targets, but in our opinion it would be reckless to believe that this year's exception will occur in the following years. That corresponds more to the elucubration than to the analysis. Two months later, on 14 September, I told the Minister again: UPyD had the opportunity to point out to the Government, represented by the Minister of Finance and Public Administration, Mr Montoro, during the debate on the deficit ceiling his conviction that the official macroeconomic forecasts for 2016 would not be met. The studies of BBVA and Funcas are now being endorsed - and we added - and in the coming months we will see that many other national and international entities are joining on the non-compliance with this macroeconomic picture. Indeed, these budgets, even amended by the Senate, have little political viability, as they are presented on the eve of uncertain future elections for the current People's Party government, and also have little technical feasibility. But it doesn't matter, the government is precluding itself in maintaining the mistake. Secondly, these budgets present significant contradictions around their accounting. The Government's own estimates in the State General Budgets submitted to this House envisaged a somewhat credible growth in social security revenues by around 7% in 2016. Since the black gentlemen of Brussels are more scrupulous - at least that is what the government believes - than the Members of the House, the data presented to the European Commission no longer envisaged an increase in social security income by 7%, but only 4%. The truth is that the reality is that in this year that we are, with a 3% increase in employment, there has been only a 1% increase in income from contributions. How is it possible that, by increasing employment by 3 %, only 1 % of contribution income will increase? The answer is very simple: because the precariousness of temporary contracts has increased - therefore, the revenues of contributions have fallen - and, in addition, the number of long-term unemployed has increased. Thirdly, the amendments that come from the Senate go further in a confusing heterogeneity of issues. On the one hand, ignoring the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, there are repeated amendments or amendments that include issues that have nothing to do directly with the budgets. Here reference has already been made to the change affecting workers in the maritime-fisheries sector. By the way, last week - last week! - we approved here the amendments that came from the Senate that already included precisely the collective of neskatillas and packers. Therefore, they have not even bothered to contrast what they brought in a bill that was presented a week before the current one. It does not matter, here is the new third bis final provision which again reflects this amendment. But there's more. The thirteenth final provision amends the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Sanitary Devices. What does that have to do with budgets? I repeat, it does not matter the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. Well, it does matter; it matters when it coincides with the government's approaches and it is ignored when it comes to amending in the Senate, through amendments, laws that should have been modified by another procedure. Already the culmination - by setting an example of the paroxysm of this logic of modifications of last resort through the Senate - is that in section 23, Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment, appears a modification, the amendment 2212 of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Senate, concerning the repair and improvement of various bathing platforms in the municipality of Ciudadela, on the island of Menorca; there is nothing. This is a paradigm of the amendments made by the Senate in these budgets. I conclude by saying that we have already warned in your final vote in this House, before going out to the Senate, that these budgets were not viable; they did not have it for economic reasons that we explained and they did not have it for political reasons. We now conclude, after returning from the Senate with these changes, that they continue to have no viability, and they also cease to have credibility for our parliamentary group. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Please be silent so that the interveners can be heard. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, what a wise saying that says: there is no evil that a hundred years lasts, although it is true that for a part of the citizenry the four years of the Rajoy government have seemed like an eternity. This legislature could not end worse, with the adoption of budgets that are born dead, because dead are the budgets that are not only not credible by anyone in this House, except for the People's Party, but also have the rejection of those to whom you gave the opportunity to be able to censor them beforehand through the excessive deficit procedure. It is true that some budgets are just that, a forecast of revenue and expenditure, but one thing is that the forecasts are not met and the other is that you year after year repeatedly present us with false budgets, although these certainly take the record, are the most false in the history of democracy in this country. Mr Montoro, I suggest you change your sport, because the launching of boomeran has been fatal to you; you have launched the boomeran of electoral budgets and you have beaten the boomeran in the face quite ostentatiously. [[Rumors]] We are faced with budgets that are cumbersome in terms of their own configuration; they are dead before they are born, before they are approved they are dead in the basic terms. You know that the revenue budgets are swollen, they are fictitious; we have told you several times, you have not met the forecast for 2015 in relation to the contribution revenues, and not for short - you predicted 6.8% and are at 1.35 % at eight months -, and you are allowed to say that in the 2016 budget you are going to rise more than 8%. [[Rumors]] The same applies to revenue of a fiscal nature...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u108	I'm sorry, Mr. Coscubiela. Please, it is impossible to hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm afraid they're going to pay you as much attention as I am, but, well, let's try. In budgets, tax revenues are also fictitious from the point of view of all taxes. You know that you are also very punished for those gifts that you have wanted to make in the form of fiscal guineas, which you have already meant in 2015 at least a reduction in income of 3,900 million euros and that you will also punish the tax revenues of 2016. You are resubmitting to us some budgets which, as always with regard to expenditure, are undervalued under some headings. We have had to see throughout the legislature that, at the end of May or June, you are extending the appropriations for defence expenditure, because you have previously presented us with false budgets. But this time you have passed the brake: you have presented us with budgets that do not bear the slightest comparison with reality. Unfortunately, this legislature ends as it began, with the People's Party and Rajoy's government deceiving and lying to citizens in a basic aspect such as budgetary elements. Despite the fact that at present the real occupation, the occupation in equivalent terms of full-time employment, is smaller than at the beginning of the legislature, despite the fact that we have tremendously more precarious employment, the budget lines for these policies are not reflected in those budgets in a timely manner. Today, active employment policy items are smaller than at the beginning of their term of office, as are public administration policy items, which ultimately have the capacity to direct these public employment policies. Despite the fact that there are 470,000 people who have recognized the right to dependency benefit, you will not be able to receive this benefit because it is one of the most suffocated and drowned parties during this process. We could go in this way detailing each and every feature of these budgets that you present to us. They are budgets that, following what is the genome of their policy and their way of understanding this society, are profoundly centralizing and centralist in the attack not on one or other autonomous community, but on a fundamental aspect, which is to try to reduce the public deficit by suffocating the autonomous communities as a whole and, in particular, the local administrations, which are making the main effort to adjust the public deficit and, instead, you continue to squeeze them through income as well. You know that, but in spite of that you have repeatedly decided to present these budgets with these characteristics. These are budgets which, to the extent that they do so, are also causing a clear weakening of democracy in our country. Budgets that nobody believes are budgets that weaken the very legitimacy of the institutions, of this Congress of Deputies, and also weaken the very essence of democracy, which is the relationship of trust, of credibility of representatives with representatives. In that regard, I would like to stress the criticisms that we have been making repeatedly. Fortunately, on 20 December, citizens will have the opportunity to reverse this situation, but the government that gets elected by citizens will face a problem, with budgets that will have to be reworked in a difficult context. From this point of view, allow me to take this opportunity to refer to some of the amendments that come to us from the Senate and, thus, to listen to the President of Congress when he asks us to at least refer to some of them. In order for you to see that we are prepared to vote on some of those amendments that have come from the Senate that we think are appropriate, I will focus on them precisely, making it clear that we are going to vote against the rest or we are going to abstain. With regard to Article 20(1) and (2), we consider it appropriate, for example, to introduce an increase in the replacement rate for the extension of the public offer of employment under certain conditions. Too bad they didn't listen to us when they brought a royal decree-law into this House and we insisted on that! Welcome back, even if I'm late. The same applies to Article 109, since they are the basis for the contribution of self-employed workers, and to the technical improvement they contain. The same is true of Article 109.7, the basis for contributions by workers in the maritime sector. From that point of view, let me also tell you that it seems logical - and that is why we are voting in favour - that in the additional provision 80 there is a specific section which refers to actions aimed at vocational training for employment, which come from the Vocational Training for Employment Act, which we discussed as a decree-law and which we were then able to amend in a work that is possibly one of the few jobs in this House where the People's Group has been able to negotiate and agree with the rest of the groups, specifically with the Socialist Group and partly with the Group of the Plural Left and which you collect in the budgets. It's logical, and we want to value it. By the way, I take the opportunity to point out that we note that you have fulfilled the commitment of that law and are transferring it to Annex VII, as regards the remaining receivables that can be incorporated into the 2016 financial year, in relation to the items of vocational training for employment that are not used in one financial year and that can be used for the following financial year. These are some of the things that we are going to vote for. Of course, the rest are going to be votes against or abstention. But you know that what we are voting on today, in substance, is not just what Senate amendments are passed or what Senate amendments are rejected. What we are going to adopt today in political terms is what our opinion is about budgets that I insist, Mr Montoro, are born dead. They are born dead because you have lost your hand this time; you have lost the pepper of the electoral manipulation of these budgets. You've been hit by the brakes. You've gone smart this time, because you've wanted to make so many gifts, you've wanted to make so many manipulations in the forecast of income that do not exist or in some absolutely underfunded texts that, this time, you've been seen the plumer. The truth is, you have to change your sport. The boomeran is not your thing. Good thing you have a great ability to dodge, but this time the boomeran has given you where it hurts, in the face. I'm sorry, but it had to happen sometime. You have spent four years presenting budgets that have not been met. The fourth one's over. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió, first of all, Mrs Tarruella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we say again that these budgets that come back to this House from the Senate are purely electoral budgets. These are budgets which, at the time of discussion, you already know that Brussels requires a correction because they are not going to adjust to the required deficit. From the point of view of our group, it is a great political irresponsibility to approve these budgets today rather than rectify them. Ladies and gentlemen, we will end the year with more than 100 billion public debt, around 5 billion public deficits and more than 5 million unemployed. If these budgets are an economic miracle and if these are social budgets, I think we should look at something. Since we have little time, I will stick to the Senate amendments. I would also like to acknowledge that, for once, some amendments have been accepted in the Senate, some of them from Unito and some of them from Convergence, that we had the whole legislature, all of them, presenting them here in Congress. On these amendments we tabled, we had made non-legislative proposals, motions, interpellations and consequential motions. Always, alone, the People's Group has told us no. Welcome to this rectification, Minister, even at the last minute and even in the Senate, because I think it was fair to fix it. I am going to comment on these three amendments for a moment, especially because I think it is important for them to be known. A correction refers to generics and brands in medicines. It seemed to us very fair to eliminate the fact that before equal price the generic medicine was given precedence over the brand. If there is equal price between the two products, we believe that especially in order not to confuse the elderly people, the polymed people who are already used to taking their medicine, with their corresponding box, it is better that every time they go with their prescription to the pharmacy they are not forced to change to a different generic. Congratulations, then; we are pleased that this amendment has been accepted. There is another amendment talking about price fixing. It is very important that there are references in the pharmacy offices to match the prices of the National Health System funding without necessarily having to be higher, as was the case with the current wording. We are particularly pleased that it has been possible to do so through a transaction between the Convergence i d'Unió Parliamentary Group in the Senate, through which there will be tax subsidies for people who have health insurance. This allowance consists of EUR 500 for the person and his or her spouse or a person under the age of 25 dependent on them, and a maximum of EUR 1,500 for persons with disabilities. We would have liked a higher discount. We asked for different degrees of disability to be differentiated, and that the 1,500 degrees should be for people with 33% disability and that the degree should be raised to those with more than 65%, but it has not been possible. In any case, it is a transactional; welcome is what has been achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, before I run out of time, I want to say that a few weeks ago I said that these were my last budgets. Today is really my last speech in this House and I want to thank all the political groups, all the Members, all the colleagues I have shared these years for how much I have learned from them. I would like to refer in particular to my colleagues in the group, d'Unió Democrática, as well as to my colleagues in the Convergence Democrática, with whom I have shared so many hours, and to highlight the colleagues in the Commission for the Integral Policies of Disability and above all those of Health. They are those with whom I have shared the most hours in the Commission and made personal friendships in all political groups. I just want to end by saying that I have not only met good politicians, but that I am leaving here with the memory of having met great people. At the most difficult time that I think can happen in life you have been my support and my help. I want to thank you all, with all my heart, right now. Thank you very much; thank you very much; eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs Tarruella, for your words. Mr Macias now has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now difficult to talk about budgets. We have talked a lot about budgets since July, we have devoted the best days of our holidays to dealing with the General Budgets of the State - we will never forget the summer that Minister Montoro has prepared for us - and today we come to the final stage, to the final procedure for its approval. The first point I would like to make here is that in the Senate there have been a number of additions to the budgets that our group always applauds. In fact, we are going to vote in favour of some of these additions. One wonders why this has been done in the Senate - improving budgets - we have not been able to do so in the Congress of Deputies. It is one of the remnants of which we have worked for a few years in this House. However, I must make some political assessment of the budgets in a short time. The budgets, ladies and gentlemen, are one of the most relevant liturgical acts for our democracy, at which time the representatives of the citizens discern the fate of those moneys that are of all and also something very important, which is how we exercise social justice, the redistribution of goods among all citizens. Therefore, the budgets are something to be taken very seriously, and we have always done so by Members before Convergence and Union, now Democratic Convergence. We have also done so in these complex moments, even knowing that all our contributions, made with a positive spirit, have hardly wanted or could be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, in these budgets, in our humble opinion, a policy has been pursued that we cannot share, a policy in which the Spanish State has been strongly re-centralised. A few days ago official data, not ours but official data, said that from 2010 to 2014 the expenditure of the administrations has undergone a very different evolution. In 2014, the state spent 2.4% more than it spent in 2010, the autonomous communities spent 14% less and the local corporations spent 21% less. That is to say, today and here this is a much less decentralized State, but it is also a State with a very deteriorated social policy. Because who does the social policies that affect citizens the most? Who provides health services? Who takes care of university education and at all its levels? Who takes care of the addiction? Autonomous communities do that. And with what resources do they do that? With the resources that are administered from the General Budgets of the State. How are we going to get better health if we've cut 14%? How are we going to be able to provide better assistance to the unit if we have cut by 14%, ladies and gentlemen? We have not done a good job in this House this parliamentary term. The Government certainly has a lot of responsibility, but overall we have not done a good job. And if we have not done a good job on the social side, neither have we on the economic side. I read today in a magazine how a very important company is surely going to leave Catalonia and Spain and is not going to leave for political reasons but simply because it has been denied aid from the Ministry of Industry, because a twisting interpretation of the law has been made, because the law does not apply to defend jobs, it does not apply. This is very serious, ladies and gentlemen. This has been a Government that has not been sensitive to the aspects of the productive economy, it must be said and repeated once again. I would like those who were in the blue bank to have to do every morning what thousands of citizens do in Spain, which is to open the blind, to have to face that it must enter more than what comes out, and our Government, unfortunately, does not know, is not conscious, is not solidarity and it is also believed that everything can be arranged with the Official State Gazette. These budgets, the last of these of this Government, in my view, reach the zenith in the characteristic of productive anti-economy. With these budgets our productive economy cannot improve, it cannot create the jobs we need so much. For this reason, our group is once again opposed to these budgets, contrary to this economic policy and warning that only from the support of the productive economy, with only a great social sensitivity will it be possible to get out of the situation in which the Spanish State is at the moment. Whenever one comes out to this rostrum at this hour...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u114	You must finish, Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u115	...has the feeling of preaching in the desert, not so much because there are not many lords, but because many lords are surely more concerned about the shopping basket of their family, legitimate thing, or whether or not they put them on the list. I get it. I announce that, as I am very quiet because I will no longer be on any electoral list, my only concern will be the shopping list and open a blind, Minister Montoro. I wish not to have to remember Minister Montoro on duty when he opens the blind and sees that my efforts and those of my collaborators do not result in social justice but in what is not known. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had a good time with you. I've had good friends here. I have also been angry many times, it is true, but in the end the most important thing is that you leave, return to your home, return to your family what has taken away from you and have a patrimony - quiet, Mr. Montoro - far greater than the one you had on December 28, 2003, when I was sent to the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mr Antonio Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have attended an emotional session that is paradoxical. It is paradoxical and curious because it is a session in which we are going to approve the budgets definitively, but these are expired, settled budgets. We could say that these budgets are those of the others, of Amenabar, those of some characters who thought they were alive but were dead alive. These budgets were already settled on the same day as they were presented in this House, but the death certificate was issued in Brussels on 12 October, and it was not a dangerous socialist who issued it, but the College of Commissioners of the European Union. Therefore, rest in peace Mr Rajoy's last budgets. Today we could paraphrase that song by Carlos Puebla saying that the fun was over, gentlemen of the government, because Brussels arrived and ordered it to stop, but you have not stopped. They have decided to look elsewhere, and it is also logical, because how they would stop and attend to what Brussels had said. I already know that some ministers do it in private, but publicly they can't do it because then the whole strategy they've designed for the election campaign would come down. Following the opinion of the European Commission, a normal government in a normal situation should have come to explain, and today, tomorrow or the past, we should have the President of the Government rebutting the opinion of the European Commission, but that is not going to happen here. The president of the government is content to go out at a press conference in New York and say: I don't think that's going to happen. The Minister for Economic Affairs agrees with us: In fact, what the European Commission's opinion says is exactly what the European Commission's opinion said last year. No, man, no. Don't fool the citizens. Of course, it is not the same as the opinion from last year's opinion said in this year's opinion. Last year it said - intercomilado -: invite to take action. This year's opinion - quotes - calls for an updated plan to be submitted as soon as possible. That's the point. This is perhaps the main democratic anomaly of these budgets, that this new plan, these new budgets, will necessarily have to present another government because you have endeavoured to carry out budgets, to leave this country tied and well bound to budgets that you are not going to implement. This is the democratic anomaly of these budgets. The most serious of all is that all this happens by a decision. It is a political decision, it is an electoral decision, it is the decision of the President of the Government to submit the entire budget strategy to the campaign guide drawn up between Genoa and Moncloa. The President of the Government decided that these budgets were to be his card of presentation to the voters, that these budgets were to be the best presentation to the next elections, and that was the charge he made to the Minister of Finance. It would have been logical, under normal conditions, that a President of the Government had not submitted a fifth budget for a four-year term. That would have been reasonable, especially since the budgets are going to come into force and are going to start to apply after having called the citizens to the polls. But we already know that these small democratic forms of Mr Rajoy bring him without care. He wanted to approve their budgets and he's going to have their budgets. That is why he delayed the elections and that is why he advanced the processing of the budgets to the month of August for the first time in democracy. That is one of the first major errors in these budgets. See if it is serious that the third point of the opinion is stoning. It says the first sentence of the third point of the opinion - I open quotes -: in view of the next general elections - I repeat, in view of the next general elections - Spain presented its draft budget plan for 2016 on 11 September 2015, in advance of the deadline of 15 October. Here's the thing. This was presented in this way by the general elections, but budgets presented in this way do not take into account the expenditure performance of the General Administration of the State, of the Autonomous Communities or of the local administrations, not even the progress of the economy, and cannot be made on a reliable basis, on a solid basis that leads to serious and solid forecasts. But that was the same, that the forecasts were not serious or solid, that was the same, because the Government had told us in a grandiose way over the last sixty days that the budgets for responsibility were coming forward, that they were not going to leave the country without budgets. The Government told us that Spain needed a solid budget to transfer confidence to the markets. The Government told us that they were advancing budgets to ensure the stability of the economy. Now what? After the European Commission's opinion we know that the government has told us many stories. We now know that the Government has to present new budgets, but not this Government. It will have to be another Government that presents updated new budgets, an updated budget plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read and reread very much the statement made by the representative of the Government, the Minister of Finance, from this rostrum on 25 August. Some of these passages, more than pity or pity, produce indignation or shame. We were told in a solemn tone - quotes -: budgets are a guarantee of stability. I close quotes. Lie. False. Nothing stable, because they are neither credible nor definitive because they will have to be rectified. Neither stability nor security, lack of credibility of the Government. But the problem is not that the Government lacks credibility - of which it is already at zero - the problem is the credibility of the Spanish economy and the credibility of our country vis-à-vis international markets. The representatives of the Government in this rostrum - I am writing quotes - told us a great deal: the electoral promises we make to the citizens when the general election campaign arrives, very soon, cannot be unattainable utopias, will be based on economic reality. I close quotes. False. According to the European Commission, these budgets do not reflect Spain's economic situation or, above all, that of its environment, which is essential for determining budgetary forecasts. Therefore, what is unattainable utopias are their own perspectives. Less than two months ago the representative of the Government told us from this rostrum: with the implementation of this budget Spain will emerge from the procedures of correction of the excessive deficit. I close quotes. A new falsehood. See if it is false that the last sentence of the opinion says - I am opening quotes -: The new plan must take this opinion into account in order to fully comply with the Stability and Growth Pact. That is, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets will not comply with the Stability and Growth Pact. Why? Because neither growth forecasts, income forecasts, expenditure forecasts, nor deficit forecasts are credible. The European Commission expects Spain to go to the deficit of 4.5% this year and 2016 to 3.5%. In short, 1 point of the difference GDP that is 10 billion euros. With this budget and without an update plan we will continue under the scrutiny of black men, as has happened so far. The week of 5 October is the last week that the representatives of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund have been here. We were also told here by the representatives of the Government on 25 August solemnly - they were told to Mr Sánchez i Llibre, who is not here now -: The question is not whether to have a social weapon or not, it is the numbers of the budgets, it is the figures, it is numbers, it is not questionable. Yes, it is questionable, of course it is questionable, and it is the European Commission that discusses numbers and figures, but not just the European Commission. It's the International Monetary Fund, the Bank of Spain, Funcas, the BBVA's study service, it's the tax authority, it's the whole world, but everyone's probably wrong and the government isn't. In that, perhaps, you are right, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Perhaps the government is not wrong, or perhaps the finance minister is not wrong. It is not that I have made an accounting or forecast error, it is not that you have been confused in the calculation of deficit growth. No, ladies and gentlemen. It is that the only way to run for election with these budgets was to square them with hammers overestimating growth and income to underestimate, to minimize the deficit. To these budgets we could apply that children's song of telling lies that the elections are coming. By the way, the same song from four years ago but on that occasion in relation to the electoral programme to which they submitted to the elections. [[Applauds]] The truth is that what the Commission is saying now has been said to it by the Socialist Parliamentary Group since the first day, and so have some of the other groups. Mr Azpiazu said so. We told them that the budgets had a trap, they contained a hidden cut of 10 billion euros. It is now the European Commission that is asking them for this EUR 10 billion adjustment, which coincides practically with the tax reform, with this tax reduction on large incomes, large assets and large corporations, which coincides practically with that. As a result, what is the problem and how do the finances in this country leave us? After four long years they leave a debt of one billion euros. You have not met the deficit targets you sent to Brussels in any year. They leave a social security hole of 20 billion, have cut the welfare state by another 20 billion and have raised taxes up to fifty times. And yet they have the boldness to tell the citizens that the sacrifice has been worth it. But how is it worth the sacrifice if the legislature ends with less employment than when it came to power, more long-term unemployment, more unemployment among women, more precarious part-time contracts, more poor workers and less protection for the unemployed! That's his sad payroll at the end of the legislature. That's the balance sheet, gentlemen of the government. [[Applauds]] They began the legislature by delaying budgets on the occasion of the Andalusian elections and receiving a harsh reprimand from the European Commission. They finish the legislature by advancing budgets and receiving another harsh reprimand from the European Commission. The problem is not that you receive reprimands as a government, the problem is what are the consequences of those reprimands from the European Union for Spain, for our credibility, for our companies. These budgets have been drawn up to deal with an election and are going to last that, from here to the elections. But we could get an idea of what was going to happen if Mr. Rajoy stayed at the head of the government, but not because we had a magic ball, a glass ball. No, it's because this has happened, we've already lived it. In 2012, when the budgets had been approved and amendments were still under way, you passed a decree-law with 10 billion cuts in health and education. And, not content with that, in July they re-approved another decree-law with 13 billion cuts. Nothing, therefore; nothing is worth the word of this Government, committed to general State budgets. Nothing at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just finishing up. Today you are going to approve pre-emptive and disallowed budgets by the European Commission, subject to elections delayed for election convenience. What has happened in the last few months in Spain is the chronicle, it is the example of an exhausted president, committed to keeping a legislature alive to see if the miracle of avoiding the most sonorous electoral defeat of his party and his government was taking place. But from this defeat they will not rid him of the treacherous budgets that they have presented neither the fanciful forecasts nor even the charity of their own voters and voters who are fed up, are tired of their lies, their cuts and corruption. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. For the People's Group, I have the floor, Mr Rafael Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. My first words have to be to thank those parliamentary groups that have announced support for some of the amendments that, approved in the Senate, are coming to this House today. My second words have to be, Mr Hernando, to tell you that you leave me amazed after your speech today. I know that you have now dedicated yourselves to hiring those old economists who were teaching economics in two afternoons; I believe that you, after this speech, will not need two, with three I believe you will not even get over it. This is what one deduces after listening to you here some of the assertions that you have so enthusiastically uttered and that have nothing to do with reality. The General Budgets of the State are a relationship between expenditure and income, a forecast for the future year, and this is what the Government has brought on the basis of precisely the experience of compliance with the General Budgets of the State over all these years and making projections that have to do with the projections that the autonomous communities and the municipalities have to make in their budgets. That is why these budgets are based, on the great change that has taken place in Spain, on that great change that implies economic confidence. Budgets that have been described as the budgets of stability and credibility; described as realistic, possible and feasible by the Bank of Spain and IDEF and also by financial rating companies, those that improve the rating to the Spanish debt while lowering the debt of other countries like France, in which it seems that you have your mentors and inspirers when talking about the budgets. [[Applauds]] They do, moreover, because we are at a time when Spain's debt, when placed on the market, is remunerated with negative interest rates, a situation quite different from that which we had and inherited when you left the government the way you left it. Because you don't remember a few things. You left scared and did not want to present in 2011 the General Budgets of the State for 2012. They did not want to present them and fled their responsibilities, left this country lying and did not want to present the reality of what was there. It was the story of a great deception, Mr. Hernando, that story that said we were already in a new recession, that the fall in collection exceeded 70 billion, that the deficit would exceed 100 billion and that to the 3.5 million unemployed you left in the last four years would join a million new unemployed if things didn't change in 2012. That's what you refused to teach the citizens and that's why you called the elections early and left as you left this country. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not listen to you, we listen to the citizens and we trust the citizens, the ability of the Spaniards to improve things, in small and medium-sized enterprises, in the large enterprises of this country, in the self-employed, in the efforts of the workers; because of this, things today are quite different from what they were when you left the government. The year 2012 was the year we used in the General Budgets of the State to stop the bleeding in which you left us; the year 2013 was when we ended the recession; 2014 was the year of recovery; 2015 was the year of growth and 2016 will be the year of consolidation, provided that the People's Party wins the next elections again. [[Applauds]] That is, ladies and gentlemen, because we are now fulfilling what some economists have always called the virtuous circle, not those gurus who told us to ask for the ransom in order to have to face what they had done in other countries and which you have left entirely foreseen, which was that the government would have to lower, imposed by Brussels, pensions, compensation to the unemployed or social protection costs. We didn't want to do that, we got over the situation and today we are much better than what you left us. It is this virtuous circle of change of productive model that has been achieved thanks to the Government's effort, which was described today by the director of the Banco de España, in which inflation falls, employment increases and there is surplus in the foreign trade balance. Ladies and gentlemen, today we approve the 2016 budgets in compliance with the obligations of Article 134 of the Constitution, which obliges the opposition to submit budgets three months before the end and end of the current year's budgets and not to run out as you did in 2011. [[Applauds]] That's what happened here. The 2016 budgets have a forecast of creating half a million new jobs; they are the budgets with the greatest social content in history; pensions are raised, not frozen; civil servants' salaries are raised, not lowered by 10%; social and scholarship expenditure is increased, youth grants are not misled in budgets, and transfers are increased to the autonomous communities so that they can sustain education, health and dependency, ladies and gentlemen. These are the budgets that increase R & D & I and that continue to drive sustained and sustainable growth. In short, it is the budgets, ladies and gentlemen, that consolidate our growth, our employment, our consumption, our increase in collection, our improvement in social welfare, lowering expenditure and lowering taxes, really improving the income of families. You come here this afternoon and the clothes are torn by the report by the European Union and Mr Moscovoci. I think it is very good that you have looked at Mr Moscovoci today. They could have been fixed on it when it presented budgets in France as Minister of Economy and Finance and were not met and the French budgets were diverted by 0.3% in 2013 and 0.9% in 2014. You can therefore tear your clothes all you want, but this has been a government capable of overcoming the forecasts of the European Union for several years. It did so in 2014, when the European Union's growth forecast was 0.5% and it was 1.4%, and we also met our deficit obligations, and in 2015, when the deviation was forecast at 0.4% and growth at 1.7%, there is a growth forecast at 3.5% and 650,000 new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, 650,000 new jobs will be created this year thanks to the government's economic policy. [[Applauds]] It is true that the European Union report speaks of certain risks. You have forgotten to read precisely on page 4, point 9, where you are warned of the risks that the autonomous communities and the municipalities can divert in their forecasts, precisely because you have committed the folly of giving power in those municipalities and the autonomous communities to those who are for public spending and for non-compliance with the rule of spending. [[Applauds]] I also want to remind you that there are other risks. There is a risk of changing Article 135, returning to Mr Zapatero's policies and failing to meet the budgetary balance which implies that future generations cannot be permanently indebted. There is another risk, and it is that amendments will be adopted in this House, as the Socialist Group has tabled, worth more than EUR 10 billion, which is one more point of deficit. There is a risk that those gurus who taught economics, such as you, Mr Hernando, will return in two afternoons, or those who destroyed our entire productive electrical system generating a deficit of 35 billion euros, despite the fact that the electricity bill had increased by 70 % in the last eight years of socialist government. Ladies and gentlemen, the risk, the real risk, is you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] This is the risk that Spain has so that the budgets are not fulfilled and I refer to the tests. Ladies and gentlemen, in September, unemployment increased by 26,000 people in Spain, 13,000 in Andalusia, where you govern, by the way, with some new ones, with those of Citizens. You also talked about Funcas. Well, look what the Funcas report has said, that next year the autonomous communities that are going to grow the most are Galicia, La Rioja, Murcia and Madrid, just the four autonomous communities where the PP governs, so let's see if you take note of what some reports say. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens are going to have to decide in December and they are going to have to decide whether they want stability, whether they want growth, whether they want to bet on employment - those 650,000 jobs this year - or whether they want to go back to the past or whether they want to jump to the void, to the void of those who have done nothing in their lives, but who go from plate to plate, giving lessons to all about what needs to be done, without ever proving - I insist - anything in their political life, those with which you feel so comfortable ruling in Andalusia or where you can. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain cannot risk its future, and for that, on 20 December, they will have to take a decision. We are the ones who do it and we are the ones who do it, not the ones who make up the stories or the ones we are all day putting sticks on the bike of the economy and the functioning of our economy. There are others who dedicate themselves, like Diogenes, to looking with a lamp to see if there is any deputy who serves him to regenerate his party. [[Laughter and applause]] We don't need to make records of that kind because we trust people. I trust my parliamentary group and am very proud to have directed it, even if it was only a year. It is this parliamentary group that has given stability to a government policy presided over by Mariano Rajoy, who has been able to really change things for hundreds of thousands of Spaniards and hundreds of thousands of families in this legislature. If you have observed, throughout all this time we have been accused of the cuts. We are now accused of spending more, according to Mr Moscovici and the European Union. We are not bad, but we have achieved this thanks to the fact that today the Spanish citizens, the Spanish average workers are going to pay less taxes than those they paid when the legislature began and that there are others who are going to pay more, yes, yes. [[Applauds]] They are going to pay more IBEX companies, those to which you were giving economic benefits so that there were seventeen IBEX companies that did not pay taxes, that paid zero, or those big executives that went away from the companies hitting billionaire balls and, despite finding another job, did not contribute for those balls and did not pay for them to the Public Treasury; or those other 120,000 Spanish citizens who had their assets and their money abroad -160,000 million euros - and those who at the moment have absolutely controlled and therefore have sufficient basis to contribute for their fortune. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are no new policies and old policies here. Here there are bad policies and good policies, and the good policies and the best are the ones made by the People's Party. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Spain when it is gone can speak proudly and a Vice-President of the United States can come here to say that the Spanish people must be satisfied with the effort made. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I wish, apart from Kerry coming to say this, some of you from there would say that too. I don't know if they'll have a chance to recognize us in the next legislature, but I'd like to. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to finish my speech. [[Several Members: Over, over!]] Spanish society has changed: from despair to illusion, from pessimism to trust, from crisis to recovery. We were sick in Europe and today we are an example for Europe and the most jobs we create in Europe. The future is presented with uncertainties but also with optimism. We finish this legislature with the satisfaction of the job well done. Others, unfortunately, cannot say the same. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what happens in the next elections and no matter who your ladies and gentlemen repeat and are here, you will always be able to say something, especially you: I was here and, thanks to people like me, the country was able to change and Spain improved considerably. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all, those who have supported the government of my group, but also those of the opposition. [[Rumors]] You have fulfilled your obligation to oppose, not very rightly, but you have fulfilled it, and I must therefore thank all of you sincerely and wish you all the best. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. In a few minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed at the Board of Spokesmen, there is an institutional statement from all groups concerning the commemoration of October as the month of the fight against breast cancer, to which the secretary first proceeds.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u122	With venial, Mr. President. Breast cancer is the most common tumor among women worldwide, women in both developed and developing countries. In Spain, approximately 22,000 new cases are detected annually, almost 30% of all tumors in women. The incidence of breast cancer is increasing in the developing world due to higher life expectancy and, above all, changes in women's lifestyles. On the occasion of the World Day against Disease, on 19 October, Breast Cancer Day, in our country, solidarity initiatives are launched and to raise awareness of the importance of prevention by avoiding the most known risk factors and for early detection. In other countries this effort to raise awareness and fight for the prevention of cancer more frequently among women is being maintained throughout October and hundreds of solidarity initiatives are being launched around the world. The month of awareness of breast cancer, which is commemorated in many countries every October, contributes to increased attention and support for awareness, early detection, treatment and palliative care. For one month, initiatives can be promoted to emphasize the importance of information and prevention to overcome a disease that affects millions of women around the world and the importance of prioritizing research to further advance. The Congress of Deputies therefore urges the Government and the health authorities to promote the commemoration of October each year as the Month to Combat Breast Cancer, taking all necessary measures to implement this declaration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u124	Let's start with the votes. Firstly, a motion by the Basque Group, PNV, on the disturbing attitude of the Spanish Government towards the exercise and development of Basque self-government in the field of security. It is voted on its own terms, but by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 148 against, 180 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u125	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 39 against, 289 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u126	It's rejected. - THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY, ON THE OFFICIALITY OF THE CASTELLANO AS THE COMMON SPANISH LANGUAGE. [[File number 173/000232]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u127	Motion by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy on the official status of Spanish as a common Spanish language. There is a compromise amendment with the Socialist Group and the People's Group, and that is what we are going to vote on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour 187 against 45, with 106 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u128	It's approved. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the perspectives of the Spanish Government on the future of Catalonia. [[Señor Tardà]] [[File number 173/000233]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u129	Motion by the Joint Group, by Mr Tardà, on the perspectives of the Spanish Government on the future of Catalonia. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 27 against, 291 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u130	It's rejected. [[Mrs Hernanz Costa asks for the floor]] Mrs. Hernanz, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. It's just to make a correction. In the penultimate vote, on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, the president announced that there was a compromise amendment that was also signed by the Socialist Group. It's a mistake. The compromise amendment is signed only by the People's Group and not by the Socialist Group. I just wanted it to appear in the 'Diary of Sessions'.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u132	Let it be known, because it was not a mistake in word but a conceptual error, because, as we had talked about two amendments, I thought it was the two groups that had signed it. Therefore, it is in the 'Diary of Sessions'.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u133	We are now going with the Senate's amendments to the State General Budgets Bill for 2016. That's enough votes, and I'm saying it so we can be patient. I will simply say that the amendment has been accepted or rejected. Amendment to Article 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 320 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u134	It's approved. Amendments to Article 22, to the additional provision fifty-ninth third, to the additional provision fifty-ninth quater, to the additional provision fifty-ninth quinquies, to the additional provision fifty-ninth septies and to the additional provision fifty-ninth octies [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 289 against, 16 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u135	They're approved. Amendments to article 59 bis. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 203 against, 107 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u136	They're approved. Amendments to Article 60a and to the final provision 10th third ter [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 300; abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u137	They're approved. Amendments to Article 61a, Article 65a, Title VI, Chapter II, Section 4a, Article 67a, to the additional provision 59a, to the additional provision 59a, to the additional provision 59a, to the additional provision 59a, to the additional provision 59a, to the additional provision 59a, to the additional provision 59a, to the additional provision 59a, to the additional provision 70a, to the final provision 11a [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 286 against, 1 abstention, 43.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u138	They're approved. Amendments to Article 109 and Annex VII. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 294 against, 15 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u139	They're approved. Amendment to additional provision 10th fifth. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 324 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u140	It's approved. Amendment to the twenty-first additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 206 abstentions, 125.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u141	It's approved. Amendment to the additional provision 80. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 208 abstentions, 122.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u142	It's approved. Amendment to the second final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 312 against, 10 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u143	It's approved. Amendment to final provision 3a [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 322 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u144	It's approved. Amendment to final provision 5a [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 185 against, 109 abstentions, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u145	It's approved. Amendment to final provision 5b [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 293 abstentions, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u146	It's approved. Amendment to final provision 10 bis [[new]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 293 abstentions, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u147	It's approved. Amendment to the final provision twelfth bis [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 285 abstentions, 42.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u148	It's approved. Amendments to paragraphs 1 and 6 of the third final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 300 against, 1 abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u149	They're approved. Amendment to paragraph 5 of the third final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 202 against, 106 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u150	It's approved. Amendments to the remaining subparagraphs of the third final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 309 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u151	They're approved. Amendment to final provision 10th third quarter [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 308 against, 1 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u152	It's approved. Amendments to the preamble, to article 9, to article 59b, to the tenth additional provision, to the ninth final provision and to the third final provision [[new]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 192 abstentions, 139.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u153	They're approved. The rest of the amendments to the joint text. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 183 against, 110 abstentions, 38.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u154	They're approved. Amendment to section 13 concerning the new building to house judicial units in the municipality of Talavera de la Reina. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour 182 against 108 abstentions 40.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u155	It's approved. Amendments to section 13 on compliance with the transfer of functions and services agreements with the Autonomous Community of La Rioja, section 16 on the conduct of prior studies for the Commission of Lugo, section 19, section 26 and ADIF. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 288 against, 1 abstentions 42.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u156	They're approved. Amendment to section 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 303 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u157	It's approved. Amendment to section 16 relating to works in the headquarters of the Civil Guard of Santiago de Compostela. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 187 abstentions, 144.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u158	It's approved. Amendment to section 17 concerning the modification of the quantities of the Balupor-Fiscal tunnel section. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 306 against, 9 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u159	It's approved. Amendment to section 17 concerning the works of the A-11 in the North round section of Zamora-Ricobayo. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 295 against, 10 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u160	It's approved. Amendment to section 17 concerning the recovery works of the Basilica of the Holy Martyrs Just and Pastor in the city of Barcelona. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 301 abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u161	It's approved. Rest of amendments to section 17. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 292 against, 3 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u162	They're approved. Amendments to section 18, concerning the Unesco Valencia Mediterranean Association for the Silk Road programme, the rehabilitation of Salvador Dalí's home in Figueres and the Mediterranean Games in Tarragona. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 310 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u163	They're approved. Amendment to section 18 concerning the celebration of Donostia-San Sebastián 2016 European Capital of Culture. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 316 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u164	It's approved. Rest of amendments to section 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 291 against, 2 abstentions, 38.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u165	They're approved. Amendments to section 20 concerning the participation quota in Euramet, Welmec and Imeko and various actions to promote sustainable mobility. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 187 abstentions, 144.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u166	They're approved. Amendment to section 20, on the plan for the modernization of the port of Carmen, in Tías [[Lanzarote]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 294 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u167	It's approved. Amendment to section 20, on the Reindustrialisation Plan for the Camp de Morvedre region. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 317 against, 2 abstentions, 211.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u168	It's approved. Rest of amendments to section 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 292 abstentions, 38.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u169	They're approved. Amendment to section 23 concerning the repair and improvement of various bathing platforms in the municipal term Ciutadella on the island of Menorca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 307 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u170	It's approved. Rest of amendments to section 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 198 against, 1 abstentions, 132.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u171	They're approved. Amendment to section 27, on the Green Climate Fund. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 322 against, 1 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u172	It's approved. Rest of amendments to section 27. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 293 abstentions, 35.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u173	They're approved. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the last vote, I would like to tell you that it has been an honour and pleasure for me to preside over you in this legislature. Thank you all very much. [[Prolonged applause]] Thank you very much. Remaining amendments to the sections. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 183 against, 107 abstentions, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-20-CD151020.u174	They're approved. The meeting was suspended. [[Applauds]] It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night.
