ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u1	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u2	Questions to the President of the Government. He asked, first of all, Mr Joan Coscubiela, Member of the Plural Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rajoy, do you intend to continue to protect tax evaders and fraudsters?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u4	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. What I intend to do is to continue to encourage the State Tax Agency so that it can present results such as those it has achieved over the past few years. In the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 37,674 million euros have been collected in the fight against tax fraud - it is the best data since time immemorial - and in the first trimester of this year 2015 they have been collected 2,889. It has been the best first quarter of Spain's history in the fight against tax fraud. Therefore, what I intend to continue to do is to support the officials of the State Tax Agency, who are doing a very brilliant job in the fight against tax fraud. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u7	Mr. Rajoy, who are you trying to fool? For years, prominent leaders of his party have devoted themselves to taking advantage of his posts to plunder this country, to plunder it for his own benefit, his party, in collusion with companies and professional offices. You have spent the whole legislature supporting and defending leaders of your party who today are corrupt convicts and confessors. You have put your hand in the fire so many times for your corrupts that today you are a burned, charred character. Remember, they first denied corruption and presented themselves as victims of a conspiracy. They have subsequently made judicial investigations difficult, destroyed evidence and prosecuted judges. When it has been evident that you were not able to hide that you are a party tainted by corruption, you are surprised, complicated, offended, deceived before the citizenry, with a defachation that is an insult to intelligence. All of this has happened under his presidency, while the workers were being robbed, labour and social rights were being cut, whole families were being evicted, and a tax amnesty was being approved that has been used to raise opaque money and criminal money from their corrupt and donor companies. Now, when you can no longer hide that dirt, you appear as the anti-corruption government. Mr Rajoy, you do something contrary to what you say; neither your most devoted voters nor your most hooligan Members believe you anymore. The director of the Tax Agency is presented saying that he has tax data that are the potato storehouse and you refuse to publish them. Our group, The Plural Left, has put forward a bill so that you can know before you vote who these tax evaders and defrauders are and you veto it so that you can't argue before the elections. Mr Rajoy, it seems that the only way you can stop protecting the corrupt and tax evaders is to stop being president of the government. Well, that's where we are, because protecting corrupt, evasive and defrauding people has ended up turning you into Mr. X of corruption. Give way to the citizenry to get us out of the dump you've put her in. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u8	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u9	Thank you very much for your balanced, balanced and democratic intervention, Mr Coscubaila. [[Laughter]] I don't know if he's confused about the country, I think he is; of course, reality absolutely denies him. During this term we have taken measures against tax fraud as never before in our country. We started in 2012 with a comprehensive reform to combat fraud, Law 7/2012. With the tax reform that came into effect in 2015 we strengthen the instruments of the fight against fraud. This has been completed with the General Tax Act and its reform, which will begin its course in Parliament shortly. We have been very active at international level - the new agreement with Andorra will shortly be approved - and we have agreed on an automatic system of exchange of tax information with large countries throughout the world. We have increased the material and personal resources of the State Tax Agency, we have given the battle against employment and social security fraud. Thanks to the measures taken by the Government and the effective action of the State Tax Agency, €124 billion has emerged. They were abroad and now they are already tax bases, so the Public Treasury is going to get more resources to meet the public services that the Spanish need. We have made fiscal regulation, as has been announced by the Greek Government and Mr Varoufakis. Such fiscal regularization has been achieved in other countries of the European Union. It was also done in Spain in 1984 and 1991. It is a fiscal regularization that, unlike these two, pays the taxpayer, their names are known by the State Tax Agency, does not clean or erase any crime, has the OECD's endorsement and has led to the largest increase in tax bases in history. We have therefore made a more just tax system. The reality you paint is that of your country, not fortunately that of this, in which we all live. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. - by Mr Josep Sánchez I Libre, in replacement of Mr Josep Antoni Duran I Lleida, by the Catalan parliamentary group, which forms the President of the Government: does the Government think to impose a plan of struggle against poverty on the part of the revenue collected by the Court Agency in the form of a procedure for the voluntary regulation of the courts, not accompanied with the process of external regulation of the year 2012 or of the tax amnesty? [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 180/001283]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u11	Question to the President of the Government by Mr Josep Sánchez i Llibre of the Catalan Group [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, in Convergence i Unió we believe with the utmost conviction that we have a moral obligation to put an end to poverty. I'll explain. We have at our disposal the resources and the mechanisms to be able to do so. On the one hand and according to answers to questions from our spokesman, Josep Antoni Durán i Lleida, we know that after and outside the fiscal regularization of the year 2012 the state has entered for extemporanean liquidations excluded from the fiscal regularization the following amounts: year 2012, 1,343 million euros; year 2013, 1,014 million euros; year 2014, 1,332 million euros; total, 3,683 million euros. On the other hand, Mr President, according to the report of the European Network to combat poverty and social exclusion, 27 % of the population in Spain is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. This report also says that there are more than three million people in Spain at risk of severe deprivation. In the face of this, what has the State done? On the one hand, it has provided €17 million for the 2013-2016 National Social Inclusion Plan and, on the other, it has incorporated €32 million in the 2015 General Budgets. Mr President, does poverty not deserve extraordinary spending? In Convergence and Union we believe so. Mr President, does the obscene inequality in Spain not require an extraordinary plan to combat poverty? In Convergence and Union we believe so. We urge the Government to create a fund to combat poverty, to provide it with resources from out-of-time self-liquidations, to distribute it among the autonomous communities and to manage it with third-sector entities. I ended up the way I started. Mr President, we have a moral obligation to end poverty. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u14	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. I get it. He spoke of voluntary tax regularizations, those of article 179.3 of the General Tax Act, and called for a plan to combat poverty. I agree with you. It will have been possible to see throughout this legislature that the main priority of this Government has been the fight against the crisis and, within it, the fight against poverty is a fundamental objective. That requires action in many ways and in many sectors. The first and most important thing to effectively combat poverty is job creation, which has also been a key objective throughout this legislature. Fortunately, employment is beginning to be created in our country after many years of its destruction. Secondly, it is crucial to effectively combat poverty to maintain the welfare state: health, education, pensions, unemployment and social services policies. We've done it, too. Thirdly, one of the most important decisions taken by the Government in this area has been the National Plan of Action for Social Inclusion. It is not those amounts to which you referred in your speech that the Government has devoted to combating poverty, have been much greater. I can first of all refer to aid to local authorities to cover the agreements and transfers owed to them by the Autonomous Communities, which are precisely to combat poverty. We have approved the Children's Poverty Fund, the Plan with local corporations, social canteens, day centres, shelters and wards, the Food Payment Fund, subsidies to social programmes through income tax and economic aid to families at risk of exclusion. We have extended the Preparation Plan and family deductions in the IRPF also have as their fundamental objective the fight against poverty. We have reached an agreement with the unions at the end of last year to help those who were unemployed and in a situation of greatest difficulty, we have adopted the Child Protection and Energy Act and we have also taken decisions. Many decisions have been taken by the Government, but we are ready to listen to your group and all contributions you make will be welcome. Another of the main objectives of this legislature, which was to begin to fight effectively against inequality and poverty, is already reflected in the indices. Both the Gini index, as well as the 80/20 index, and the Arope index, all from Eurostat, the Statistical Office of the European Union, begin to say that poverty and inequality are beginning to decrease in our country, which comforts us all and encourages us to continue working in the same direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED PEDRO SÁNCHEZ PEREZ-CASTEJON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE DISABILITY EXISTING IN OUR WORK MARKET? [[File number 180/001287]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u16	Question to the President of the Government, by Mr Pedro Sánchez, by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, I would like to know what opinion you deserve from inequality in the labour market in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u18	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u19	The main inequality in the labour market is that between those who can work and those who cannot work, so the main objective of this legislature has been the fight against unemployment. I will give you a news, which is important and of which you are sure you are happy: last year, 2014, for the first time since 2006, in Spain increased employment and decreased unemployment. Thus there is a turning point, 440,000 Spaniards have found a job. It is absolutely insufficient, but we are already starting to walk in the same direction. The data from the beginning of this year 2015 are positive. At the end of March we knew that, compared to March last year, 536,000 Spaniards had been able to join Social Security and therefore work. The forecasts for this year 2015 are good. We're gonna grow up. Our country is the most likely to grow in Europe, 2.9%, and our forecast is that more than 500,000 jobs will be created. I repeat, there is nothing worse for equality than that difference between those who can fortunately work and those who unfortunately cannot. It has been the great objective of this legislature, they begin to produce results and that encourages us to continue working in the same direction. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, you call recovery to 700,000 jobs destroyed since you were President of the Government until today. You are going to be the president of the government remembered for three things: tax amnesty - non-tax regularization, pay attention to your vice president of the government, tax amnesty - labor reform and social adjustments. With regard to the tax amnesty, I would like to say the same thing again, Mr Rajoy, we Spaniards have a right to know and I therefore demand that you publish the list of names and surnames that have been taxed before 24 May, I repeat, before 24 May. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, with regard to your labour reform, I will tell you that what you do is condemn millions of Spaniards to job insecurity. Last year - you were referring to it - nine out of ten contracts were temporary, with an average duration of fifty-four days, and one out of four jobs had an average duration of less than one week, and that is what you call it following in the right direction. Mr Rajoy, with your labour reform you do not create employment, what you are doing is turning stable employment into precarious employment. If we look at the number of hours, since you have ruled, the equivalent of 1.4 million occupied in our country has been lost. You have condemned, Mr Rajoy, that the wages of the workers are the same as they were twenty-five years ago. Today one in three workers in our country earns the interprofessional minimum wage, i.e. EUR 648 per month, Mr Rajoy, and half of the workers earn less than EUR 950 per month. That for you, Mr Rajoy, is that you must continue to persevere on that line, as I heard you say a few days ago in a famous videoblog that you posted on the website of La Moncloa. Mr Rajoy, as a result of your employment reform in Spain, ten million hours a week are illegally worked. You call that quality employment; I call it like most Spaniards, like normal human beings, Mr Rajoy, labor exploitation. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] Mr Rajoy, do you know what all those Spaniards think when they listen to you and your Government talk about good unemployment data? That you, also in labour policy, have done what you have done has been to disappoint the Spaniards. I pledge to all of them to adopt a Workers' Statute, as soon as there is a change of parliamentary majority from the general elections, which recovers the labour rights lost by labour reform. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u22	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u23	I'm sorry, but I don't accept that you're giving me labour market lessons. [[Protests.-Several Members: Oh!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u24	I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u25	I'll explain why. Between 2008 and 2011 in Spain you destroyed 3,345,000 jobs. You are not in a position to teach anyone any lessons. When we reached the government by the end of 2011, unemployment increased by 9.6% per year; today unemployment is decreasing by 7.2% per year. I do not tell you to punish yourselves unmercifully by saying how badly you did it in your day, but at least you could recognize that the work of this government has led to the creation of jobs in our country for the first time in many years and that more than 500,000 jobs will be created in Spain this year. [[Applauds]] I don't know if you guys are upset, but it's the facts. Mr Sánchez, if you read the latest published EPA, you will have seen that what is being created in Spain is indefinite employment and full-time employment; see the EPA. [[Rumors]] The timing in Spain today is 23.6% - when you were ruling it was 29% - and part-time employment is 16.3%. There are very important data, such as starting to correct - there is still a lot - youth employment or the number of households with all their unemployed people. We're working well, we're going in the right direction, we're creating jobs and from there what we have to do is persevere. What you did was take it to Spain... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED ROSA MARIA DÍEZ GONZALEZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY UNION, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY: DOES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT FOLLOW THAT "THE RATE CASE" IS A PARTICULAR MATTER? [[File number 180/001286]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u27	Questions to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency. Firstly, she asked Mrs Rosa Díez, Member of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u28	Thank you, President. Madam Vice President, who appointed Mr. Rato president of Caja Madrid in 2010? Mr Rajoy, President of the People's Party, appointed him. Now that the National Court has just confirmed that Bankia is a state problem, supporting Judge Andreu's thesis and recognizing that there are sufficient indications of crime to investigate Bankia's departure to Bolsa when Mr. Rato himself was president of that entity; now that Mr. Rato is also being investigated for serious crimes, such as raising property, tax fraud and money laundering; now you say that Mr. Rato's is a particular matter. Tell me, Madam Vice-President: Have all the individuals who have taken up the amnesty to the prosecutor informed the government in advance that they were going to do so, as Mr. Rat said he did? Is the theme Mouse a matter as particular as the B box of your party?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u29	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Díez, this government respects the investigations carried out by the Tax Agency regarding the fulfilment of tax obligations and treats any person, regardless of the position he has held, with the same equality, because we are all subject to the law and to respect for the decisions of the prosecution and the courts, both the executive branch and also, Mrs Díez, the legislative branch to which you represent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u31	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mrs. Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u32	Justice must be defended and respected, and the general interests must also be defended, Madam Vice-President. To be a particular matter, you - you, the government - have taken it very seriously to protect Mr Rat's interests, almost as seriously as he has taken it, who tried to evade bail - requested, by the way, by the Progressive Union and Democracy and agreed by the investigating judge - by concealing his capital. You have taken it so seriously that you have helped everything you have been able to, at least for what we know; we have also discovered something else. The prosecution and the FROB - that is, you, the government - opposed the bail and, when the judge ordered it, both the prosecutor and the government - the FROB, which is the government - appealed it. Even the National Court has had to draw their attention and has had to remind its Government - the FROB - that it is not there to defend Bankia's interests; that it is not there to represent Bankia's interests, not even Mr. Rato; that it is not there to defend the particular interest - it has no legitimacy for this, because the Government has not been harmed - but it is there to defend the general interest. He told you until the D.A.'s office. Too much public work, Madam Vice-President, to defend a particular matter from a particular gentleman. Madam Vice-President, do your job, the work of the Government: defend the people who have been swindled by Mr Rat. Please earn your salary, because you are paid all those citizens, as you are paid to us, and not Mr. Rat. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u33	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u34	Mrs Díez, I thank you for saying here that you respect the prosecution and the courts, because from your mouth it has come out that the prosecution in this country is a shame. They seem to me to be very narrow terms for talking about the institutions of the State and, since the courts of the National High Court so defend their actions, it would be good for all Members to know that you have accused the judge of now defending naivety, of using fallacious arguments and of causing harm to you, perhaps because of your excessive zeal in defending what you call a particular accusation. They have also accused the prosecutor's office of an entrepreneurial cynicism, of committing legal aberrations and very suspicious actions, although I am not surprised that he speaks of the institutions as he speaks of himself. [[Rumors]] Secondly, Mrs Díez, in this government and in this country, the FROB has acted much more diligently than you, because it is precisely in twenty cases, rather than the Progress and Democracy Union itself, which is practically dedicated to its activity. If ninety irregular proceedings have been detected it has been because it has acted FROB, and because it has acted FROB there are twenty proceedings opened in the courts. That is to say, this government and the FROB are working. Thirdly, Mrs Díez, this government has restructured the financial system as it has not done in the last parliamentary term, in which you did not ask so much. We've had to fix that and put a stop to the prefernts. Mrs Díez, do not come to me here calling for democratic regeneration, because you have not supported one of the measures that this government has adopted. Do you know why he loses credibility on jets? Because you voted against what you say you're defending. Mrs. Diez, you're seeing too much of the plumer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u35	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO HERNANDO VERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY: DOES THE VICE-President CONSIDER THAT THE GOVERNMENT EXACTLY DISTINUES BETWEEN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INTERESTS? [[File number 180/001288]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u36	Question to the Vice-President, by Mr Antonio Hernando, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, after the last Council of Ministers, you have given a thought - I am sorry to say - to how we get the citizens interested in politics to participate, after a professional experience in the public or private sector, in the exercise of politics, to enrich the exercise of politics, to open it to the citizenry and not to limit the situation of politicians - I close them. That is why I ask you whether, after that reflection, you agree with what your group has said, that we must broaden the compatibility of Members and establish a more flexible regime that makes this activity compatible with other private activities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u39	Mr Hernando, the Government is working for the general interest of all Spaniards, and the best policy is also the general interest. You do not distinguish well between the responsibility of the Legislature and that of the Executive and want the Government not only to do its job but also its own. Whatever you want to propose, propose it in this House. It seems that he is very much in agreement with all that this Government is doing because he is coming here to ask me to address the situation of Members of Parliament and not the task of Ministers, so his question shows that it seems to support the management of this Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u41	Madam Vice-President, we are going to talk about ministers now. Another dialectic dance not to answer my question. I'm going to ask you five questions about a collision of public and private interests. Is it enriching the policy to run an arms manufacturing and sales company and then be at the head of the Ministry of Defence, which buys arms? Is it enriching the policy to be the most responsible for strategic planning of the largest fertilizer company and then to be at the head of the Ministry of Agriculture? [[Rumors]] Is it enriching the policy of having been Mr Aznar's finance minister, then setting up a fiscal advisory with his collaborators in the ministry and then running the ministry again? Is it enriching politics to be one of the bank's most responsible ones who unleashed the most important financial crisis of the last fifty years and then to be at the head of the Ministry of Economy? And fifth and last question, Madam Vice-President, do you think that charging 5,000 euros for verbal advice in coffee shops to a public-sector contractor is available to everyone or only to the informed Members of the People's Party? Some of these things may be legal but in any case they are immoral, because they are what they seem and are also outrageous to many workers who charge less than 10 euros an hour and who cannot match two jobs because they don't even have one. And what there is no right is for the Vice-President of the Government to reflect after the Council of Ministers to see how her deputies make their professional careers more compatible with politics, when what the citizens demand is that they make politics absolutely incompatible with corruption. [[One Member: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Hernando, enriching the policy is catching a country that left with 28 billion tariff deficits... [[Protests]] Do you want your group to answer you or would you prefer me to sit down?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u44	Please, I beg your silence. As there has been in the question, there must be in the answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u45	Mr Hernando - a great defender of private interests - we took a country where they left 28 billion electricity deficits that harmed the consumer and we ended the tariff deficit; we took a debt of 23 billion in the Ministry of Defence, because you did not reprogram what you ordered in armaments, and we restructured it to be able to pay; we paid for the multimillion dollar infrastructures that you left in charge in the Ministry of Development, which I do not know who designed them but who has been in court for that. Mr Hernando, to enrich this country is to take the deficit - you have left Spain almost in ruins - and to put Spain in the situation in which we live today; to enrich the policy is to grow to 2.9 % and generate employment. What is not enriching politics, Mr Hernando, is that you resign for surrenders, is that you cling to the post not out of ethical respect for this Parliament but to see if you agree on another. [[Rumors]] To enrich politics, Mr Hernando, is simply to reflect on how we regenerate democracy. Do not talk to me about incompatibilities because this Government has done its job. When we brought to this House the status of the high office, which hardens the incompatibilities, he said no; when we brought in the Transparency Act, he said no. I work to regenerate democracy, like this government, and you every Wednesday, more and more, degenerate into demagogy, Mr. Hernando..., I insist, degenerate into demagogy. [[Protests]] Mr Hernando, you can laugh all you want but one thing is very clear to the public, the only thing you're an expert on is corruption is the only thing you talk about and the only thing you know. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u46	Thank you, Madam Vice President. [[Rumors]] Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa, silence. [[Mrs López i Chamosa utters words that are not perceived.-Pausa]] For the times you've spoken and I haven't told you anything. I'm so sorry. [[Laughter]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: SHARE THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS THAT "THE GOVERNMENT HAS DONE A TAX AMNISTIA"? [[File number 180/001290]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u47	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please. He asked, first of all, Mr Pedro Saura, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you share the phrase 'this government has approved a tax amnesty'? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u49	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u50	Thank you. Mr Saura, I want to tell you with all the irony that I am capable of so far, that it is certainly very short, that what we have done has been an absolutely original fiscal amnesty, a fiscal amnesty that, instead of erasing crimes, serves to discover them, investigate them and bring them to court. We have introduced a new concept of fiscal amnesty completely different from that of Mr González's socialist governments, because someone who has been subject to this concept of fiscal amnesty, as is being shown, is then investigated and is therefore responsible for any illegal origin of the income that has been subjected to this extraordinary regularization for which he has been taxed. By the way, it seems that the Greek government, as President Rajoy recalled, is also going there; the left is also going for what they call amnesties. Go ahead and point it out, gentlemen. It will take a long time to return to the Government, but they will take note of the issues, of the solutions that are allowing so much wealth to emerge that it was abroad and that today it is part of the taxable facts subject to taxation in Spain. Thank you, Mr. Saura. If the next question is something more original, I would also appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u51	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u52	Minister, yours for two and a half years has been pathetic, it has been lame; it has made the most horrific ridiculous. It has been two and a half years since you passed a tax amnesty and the Vice-President of the Government had to tell all the Spaniards that, indeed, yes - the Government acknowledged - there was a tax amnesty. Lousy, pathetic. Mr. Montoro, for a lot of things you have to go, but that's also why you have to go home. In the end, it turns out that the economic policy of the Government of Spain is on its way to being the economic policy of the Government of Greece. Mr Montoro, both criticise the economic policy of the Greek Government and end up being its economic policy! [[Rumors]] Mr Montoro, you have said as Minister of Budgets, as Minister of Numbers, that there has been no forgiveness in this country for those who took up the tax amnesty, that Mr Rato has not been forgiven, that Mr Bárcenas has not been forgiven, that the Gürtel plot has not been forgiven. I insist, Mr. Montoro! Those who had to pay 50% plus a fine paid 3%. How is it that those who had to be investigated by the origin of their regularized capital, those who have regularized through the cash, through the 500 euro banknotes, have not been forgiven? Those haven't been chased, Mr. Montoro. Mr. Montoro, look what's going to happen in this country. The list of debtors is going to be published, the list of debtors is going to be published, but the list of tax amnesty, formed by debtors, is not going to be published. And why won't it be published? It is not going to be published because you do not want it to be known that many of your friends and leaders of the People's Party have accepted the tax amnesty, but do not worry, Mr Montoro, because the list is going to be published; the Socialist Party is going to publish the list. Mr Montoro, you do not want to leave; Mr Rajoy does not want to cease, but in the end the Spaniards are going to throw Mr Rajoy and you too. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u53	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u54	Mr. President, Mr. Saura, it's not that I don't want to leave, it's that you don't leave me. [[Laughter]] Let's see if we can find out. They have taken, like those little children, a bitch, which we said in my land, and Mr. Sánchez leads that bitch with my modest person in terms, as you say, of the minister of numbers. Thanks to what you call the numbers, the numbers translate into other numbers. Today Spain is growing and creating jobs at the head of the European Union, because it has made a policy of public expenditure of austerity, a policy of tax reforms lowering taxes this year and strengthening economic growth and job creation, a policy committed to reducing the public deficit of all our public administrations, which is allowing confidence to return to Spain, within, and that of international investors making our country the target of their investment. That is the policy we have done, the one we knew how to do, the policy that the socialist governments have done, that they have systematically ruined Spain and that when they exercise opposition what they do is an exercise of demagogy without any meaning and without any content, as Mr Sánchez, head of the Socialist Party, does. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u55	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF READING SANTIAGO Iglesias, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES THE ETHICAL CONSIDER THE PUERTA GIRATORIA EPISODS TO BE PRODUCED IN THEIR ENVIRONMENT? [[File number 180/001291]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u56	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration by Mrs Leire Iglesias of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u57	Mr. Montoro, do you find the revolving door episodes that are constantly occurring around you ethical?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Iglesias. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. In Spain, there are rules, rules; the last, the law in force since March 2015, which regulates the private activities of public offices, both the simultaneous exercise of the same and the compatibility of one post after having abandoned another. These are laws that Parliament has passed and it is in that area that we must all stick to. The ethical assessment of individual behaviors does not belong to me. I can have an opinion on a wide range of issues, like everyone else, but it is not my dedication to make that assessment about people's ethical behaviors. My scale of values may be different from that of others, others who are closer to me or further away, as they may be political adversaries, but I do not think it appropriate for me to express my opinion in the Congress of Deputies, it is not my role, and it is my duty to ensure compliance with the current rules, which avoid conflict of interest. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u61	You're right, Mr. Montoro, you don't need ethics in that revolving door because you've planted the door directly in the middle of your office. You, one day you are responsible for taxpayers, making everyone pay, collecting, and the next day you set up an office to turn taxpayers into customers and advise them on how they should not pay. Then he goes back to the other side of the door and confuses the customers, who no longer know if they are taxpayers, and gives them a tax amnesty. But at the same time you are in charge of the Office of Conflicts of Interest, and in that office you install a huge door in the middle of your office, in the middle of the Ministry of Finance, of the Government, allowing everything to pass. The ministers of this cabinet pass, as has been said before, but the whole team passes, together with that of Mr. Rato, who rides so much, comes to be more or less the same; Mr. Lamela passes, before his problems with justice; Miguel Crespo passes, before being accused by Bankia; Passes Lagares, the son, whose father you put to do the tax reform; Passes Enrique Giménez-Reyna, the one of Gescartera, as Passes Pilar Valiente - do you remember that you put her at the head of ONIF to monitor the fraud of the People's Party?-; Passes Regino Abad, Rosa Sánchez, Fernando Díaz, the brothers Martínez Rico... From Rat to Montoro, from Montoro to Rat, to the IMF and Bankia, the bank manager, the CNMV, to Montoro and Associates, and back again from one side to the other. It's normal that you don't have ethics about it. Mr. Montoro, you're not entrepreneurs. You're predators of the public. Their companies, like that of Mr De Guindos, are dedicated to selling mortgages garbage; to buying social housing from vulture funds, like that of Mr Aznar's son; they relieve taxes, speculate with the health and private management of the public. Mrs. Cospedal was right, very right. They have made a great effort to plunder Spain. You usually use a leftover tone and mockery - you define it as ironic, but it is leftover and mockery - in these control sessions. Do you know what the problem is, Mr. Montoro? That after her laughter is the suffering of many citizens. Stop mocking, go back to your office and return the public heritage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u62	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, you are making a really incoherent and absurd approach. [[Rumors]] The results of the policy in which I have had the honour of serving in this legislature are translated into growth, employment, welfare improvements and social protection. Or don't they translate into that? Isn't that the result? Is there no greater effectiveness in the fight against tax fraud than has ever been the case? Why don't you ask yourself why Mrs Salgado and Mr Solbes didn't discover a single heritage outside of Spain? Didn't that happen to you? You do give lessons of everything! Of ruining the country, of course they have the exclusive, and of using public resources, as is being demonstrated in very important autonomous governments, in a rather suspicious way at least, they also have the upper category. From there, honourable Member, if you have any specific problems with my person, of course I am willing to explain it to you whenever I want. Do you know what's going on? That the Socialist Party does not want to talk about the economic realities of Spain; what it really wants is to get the ground dirty and not to talk about... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u64	Thank you, Minister. - DON GABRIEL ECHAVARRI FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF AFFECTING THE AMBASSADOR OF SPAIN IN THE UNITED KINGDOM OF THE TRIBUTARY AGENCY FILTERING DATA AFFECTING HIM? [[File number 180/001292]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u65	Question also addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Mr Gabriel Echávarri, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. How does the Minister of Finance rate the accusations of the Spanish ambassador to the United Kingdom to the Tax Agency of filtering data that affects him?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u67	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not making any public assessment. Mr Trillo has referred to his concern about information that has appeared - which he understood as leaks - from ongoing investigations. In this respect, I must insist before the House that leaks should not anticipate the findings of such investigations. It should be recalled in this area, as the Vice-President did after the past Council of Ministers, that all officials have an obligation to remain confidential in relation to the investigations they are conducting. From there, of course, it does not correspond to any other assessment other than that which Mr Trillo himself is publicly expressing. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u69	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Echávarri.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u70	The least is filtration; the most serious is the fact. In the United Kingdom, he resigned a minister for concealing a traffic ticket and you send an ambassador from Spain to a gentleman who hid from Parliament the charge of EUR 354,000 for whispering in the ear of an entrepreneur. Is that the image you want to move from Spain to the United Kingdom? Is that what makes Spain? I remember Mr Trillo in Alicante throwing with one hand a euro to a journalist who was asking him about weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. What we didn't know then was that with the other hand I was charging 9,000 euros a month for the mere fact of being a Member; informed Member, yes, but be sure that no matter how well informed I was, Don Federico would never have been paid if I hadn't been a Member, a Member with the capacity to use his position of influence on something that company wanted. No one pays for anything anywhere. That was their courage, having more than good information and being a congressman. We already know that you believe that you are an NGO, but you know very well that when someone pays a commission, they don't exactly seek to do charity works. Faced with this, we tell you enough now, stop using the institutions to profit, put an end to this. We demand that Mr Trillo cease immediately as an ambassador to the United Kingdom, because thousands of children who have left their family in Spain and have gone to the United Kingdom to try to earn 9,000 euros a year by cleaning rooms or serving burgers cannot be represented by someone who charged 9,000 euros a month for the mere fact of being called Federico Trillo. The curriculum of an ambassador, in addition to being legal, must be ethical. This gentleman does not represent the majority of Spaniards and Spaniards, who are decent and hardworking people. This gentleman only represents the People's Party and its way of understanding politics: traffic in influences, commissionism, corruption and amicable capitalism. Put an end to the ambassador of shame. Stop Mr. Trillo today before the day is over. And you, Mr. Montoro, what a piece of paper you're doing! He's gone from being the smartest kid in the class to being the smartest kid in the class. He's gone from being Mr. Rat's wedding partner to leaking data. He has gone from being the Minister of Finance to being the promoter and protector of the greatest indecency, which is the fiscal amnesty. Do yourself a favor, do us all a favor, and return Montoro and Associates. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u71	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. But how come I'm not going to get a deep irony if you guys don't give a shit! Why don't you ask me if the reduction in last year's public deficit has been important? It has been fundamental to Spain's economic recovery. [[Protests]] Why don't you ask me what the budgetary adjustment over the last three years has been? Because they don't care. They are not interested in what we are doing to recover Spain from the prostration in which you left it. That is socialist politics. Ethical menuda have! I am once again Minister of Finance of Spain and I meet with large companies that are taxing at zero cash rate. We had to change the tax rules to get them to tax again. That, what's capitalism about? Friends? Okay. I understand that you, Mr. Member, from your relative ignorance, make these statements, but be aware of the management of the socialist governments, of whom you paid taxes in Spain when you left the government and who are paying them today. [[Protests]] As you can see, tax laws apply to everyone regardless of who they have been or who they are now, regardless of who they were in terms of political or economic power or regardless of the political or economic power they have at the moment. This is what is happening in Spain in 2015 in terms of equity and in terms of the clean and complete functioning of the institutions, something that did not happen before. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u73	Thank you, Minister. - THE DEPARTMENT OF GERMÁN RODRIGUEZ SÁNCHEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO BEFORE THE COMPLAINT OF MANIPULATION AND GOVERNMENTAL PROPAGANISATION PRESENTED BY THE COUNCIL OF TV INFORMATIVES IN THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT? [[File number 180/001293]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u74	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration by Mr Germán Rodríguez Sánchez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u75	President, I take this question into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u76	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to do anything as Minister of Finance and Public Administration. Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't think anyone's understood us, but now we explain ourselves. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u79	Not only is he not going to do anything, but manipulation is probably going to go further than we have left. You have been watching Spanish Radio Television, public television, in the service of the People's Party, for three years now. They premiered in the government by changing the law to be able to force the president of the corporation to his finger, because you did not want a president, but a faithful servant of the People's Party. Since then cases of manipulation and censorship and complaints from professionals have been constant, Minister, and have gone to worse as electoral processes have been approaching. The last of these complaints took place by the Information Council in the European Parliament, where they delivered a detailed report to the Committee on Civil Liberties and to most of the parliamentary groups - to all, except the People's Group, which did not receive them - a report with flagrant examples of the manipulation and censorship you are practicing. I will quote a very enlightening one: the Television of the night of 4 March, in which fifteen members of the People's Party government appeared in just fifteen minutes and only two representatives of the opposition. Minister, there are more cases and cases that directly affect you, cases on which Spanish Television has kept a loud silence. Minister, I am going to ask you directly: does it seem normal for you that the 1st Television did not report the prosecution's investigation into your office and your contracts with the Administration? Does it seem normal for you to miss out on the embarrassing Finance report comparing the irregular funding of the PP with donations to Caritas and the Red Cross? Do you think it is proper for an advanced democracy not to be informed of the debate on its reprobation in this House? Mr. Montoro, all of this has a name, and it's called censorship. And worst of all, yesterday the president of the RTVE Corporation came to say in the House that he had not reported the debate of his reprobation because that day there were Champions and the Television was shorter. Minister, they gave twelve news, even reported the record that an astronaut has recorded in space. Mr. Minister, it's manipulative, what a shame! The obvious thing at this point is that you know no limits, see if that's how you've come to censor Mortadelo and Philemon's latest comic, The Treasurer, doesn't it ring a bell, Mr. Montoro? You've come to this. It should not be surprising that even the Financial Times this week has devoted an extensive report to denouncing manipulation and party use. Mr Montoro, public television is to serve citizens, not to serve the electoral interests of the People's Party. Finish the manipulation. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u80	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, you bring this matter here by telling the Minister of Finance and Public Administration to force certain contents to be given to the Spanish Radiotelevision news. That's what you just said. Really a complete approach, of course very much in his style. [[Rumors]] Is that what happened before? The responsibility of the Minister of Finance and Public Administration will never be to decide, or even to comment, on the contents of the information. Or is it? It clearly isn't. It is in relation to the economic and financial management of that public body. That is what the ministry and minister are doing. That, no doubt, is the role that we have been doing since the beginning of the legislature, against its forecasts and against the ruin in which they added to the public body, removing advertising to give it to friendly televisions. - There they are, so enchanted and so objective always at the expense of the public body!-. From there, honourable Member, I do not quite understand the meaning of the question. In addition, we have been - as you say - three and a half years and apparently the complaint takes place after three and a half years, but I would swear that you have already asked me several times about manipulation in Spanish Radio Television, because you are constant throughout the legislature. You don't ask me anything about the tax drop this year. [[Rumors]] Of the reduction of the public deficit and of the economic growth ask me absolutely nothing. I was missing more! Is there anything good in Spain? That doesn't exist. [[Applauds]] Now, of this matter I have been asked and continue to be asked throughout the legislature, in order to end up denouncing a practice that is obviously not practiced and would be offensive to Spanish Radiotelevision professionals. [[Rumors]] Therefore, let them act with freedom of opinion and, from this, we will gain in the balance of communication and in the balance that must exist between information... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u82	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON MARIO BEDERA BRAVO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: IS THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION CONSIDERING THAT REVALIDATIONS DO NOT HAVE A SECRETARY EFFECT IN THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM? [[File number 180/001295]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u83	Questions to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Mr Mario Bedera, Member of the Socialist Group, asked.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u84	Thank you, President. Mr. Wert, one of Franco's last education ministers, Villar Palasí, eliminated the invalids in 1970 because it was a non-pedagogical method, as they examined what was remembered and not what was learned. Moreover, because it was very segregating, because out of every 100 pupils entering the education system only 27 went to high school and only 3 came to university. Do you still think that the revalids have no segregating effect?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bedera. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Bedera, what I think about the invalids may have, in your case - and I understand it because you are a historian - a historical interest, because obviously there are no invalids. If you, as you always do - because it seems that the only references you have in your mind are those of the past, and in addition to those of the past understood in a very narrow sense - you refer to the assessments contained in the Lomce, I will tell you that they have no segregating effect but quite the contrary, except that assessments conceived as they are in countries with better educational performance are also segregating. But, of course, I have to tell you that, as much as you talk about invalids, Lomce's assessments in no way resemble the invalids.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u87	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bedera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u88	Mr Wert, almost half a century after the invalids are eliminated - because they are invalid - you resurrect them, make them external and also design a perverse system of ranquins to classify the centers, regardless of whether they belong to depressed environments, whether they are from the rural area or if they are in urban neighborhoods with high purchasing power. Revivals that contradict the autonomy of the centres, the dignity of teachers and the principle of equality of pupils. The accumulated experience is of no use, and you have made reference to it. I'll tell you about it. Of the countries in our environment only French-speaking Belgium has revalidations in primary school and you have left that possibility open to the will of the autonomous communities. Only Ireland has a revalidation similar to that which you imposed at the end of compulsory education. Only France and Ireland give the title of baccalaureate after an external revalidation like the one you introduced in the Lomce. Posts to choose model, you have bet on the disastrous experience of the education law of George Bush son, what Americans know as the triple T: Teach to the test. As you are bilingual or trilingual you will understand and know what we are talking about. As would be, Minister, the failure of this law that even its promoter ended up writing a book asking for forgiveness for what they had done to the American educational system and because it was immoral to teach for the exam. His last contribution to this purpose is that he has proposed revalid test type, a system that feeds intensive training only for the exam and that is more typical of an academy that prepares for a Trivial championship than of a center where the integral training of our children and the culture of evaluation must prevail. No wonder the representatives of five autonomous communities are getting up from the sectoral conference sick of their proposals, more similar to late-dating... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u89	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Bedera, you know that 80% of the things you have said are not sustained. First, they don't stand up because you're talking about the primary assessment. The primary assessment, as you know or at least should know if you had read the law, completely lacks academic effects, simply provides guidance on performance. Secondly, you are talking about countries that have external and standardized assessments at the end of the stages. They are the vast majority of developed economies and, of course, those that work best. Moreover, the fact that part of the exams, part of the evaluations are test type does not mean, at all, that they have a memory content. They are proofs and I sincerely invite you to sit together and examine the very important basic work that the technicians and teachers of the ministry have done on the evaluations in order to guide them towards the knowledge of the skills acquired by the students. They are modern assessments designed to provide transparency, to facilitate accountability of the system, to make families better informed, to make students better informed, to make teachers themselves better informed. And in no way do they have anything to do with the invalids who, in fact, were a procedure to channel a demand that the system could not meet and, in that sense, it was entirely right that they were segregating. Nothing to do, Mr Bedera, with this system of external evaluations that implements the Lomce. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED ROSA MARIA ROMERO SÁNCHEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER FOR EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: WHAT ACTIONS ARE PROVIDED FOR FOR THE CONMEMOTIONS OF THE IV CENTER OF THE PUBLICATION OF PART II OF THE KITCHEN AND THE DEATH OF MIGHT OF CERVANTS? [[File number 180/001285]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u92	Question also addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, Mrs Rosa Romero, Member of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, during this year 2015 is commemorated the fourth centenary of Part II of The Ingenious Hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha, the most universal, eternal and immortal figure of Spanish literature and in 2016, the fourth centenary of the death of Don Miguel de Cervantes. The Quixote has been able to conquer the whole world, it is the most translated work. His characters have become universal archetypes. It teaches us how people lived and talked between the 16th and 17th centuries. It is a lesson in life and humanism. It is a sign of identity and moral reference of the noblest of the human being, passing times and places. In addition, he holds lessons in psychology that are difficult to overcome through his illustrious characters Don Quixote de la Mancha and his squire Sancho Panza. Spain, but especially Castile-La Mancha, has an eternal debt to this work and therefore we consider that this ephemeride is an opportunity to promote our cultural wealth and to maintain the Cervanian legacy adapted to the current reality. Let me name my land and my city, Ciudad Real, which feels chijotesca and cervantine and which Don Miguel de Cervantes raised to the category of imperial, rather than city. We have a museum in El Quixote, unique in Spain, which houses a rich library with more than 3,500 copies of Cervantine theme. The Government of Castile-La Mancha is pouring into this celebration, I also have the great support of the Government of Spain and, of course, its projection in the various autonomous communities and in the Spain of the twenty-first century, open, entrepreneurial, solidarity and determined in its commitment to progress, well-being and the generation of wealth. Therefore, Minister, I ask you for the actions commemorating the fourth centenary of the publication of the second part of El Quixote and the fourth centenary of the death of Don Miguel de Cervantes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u94	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you, Mrs Romero. I agree with your honor that these two years are an important commemoration of Cervantine. As his lordship has just said, this year we are celebrating the publication of the second part of El Quixote, the ingenious gentleman - who no longer hidelago - Don Quixote de la Mancha and next year we will celebrate the fourth centenary of the death of his author. The first provision that the Government has adopted in this regard has been the declaration of an event of exceptional public interest of these two centenaries Cervantinos, which will allow for three years, the financial years 2015, 2016 and 2017, all private sponsors who want to benefit from this commemoration to enjoy the fiscal advantages that this declaration entails. Secondly, the Government has set up an inter-ministerial commission so that, with the Honorary Presidency of its Majesties the kings and with the effective Presidency of the Vice-President of the Government, all the departments that have any connection with this commemoration can collaborate with the rest of the administrations and, of course, most notably the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Castile-La Mancha, which has the leading role that his lordship has recalled. From there, there is a wide program of commemorations of a very different kind that, in the case of the ministry I represent, include both scientific and research activities and activities that have to do with the performing arts, with music, with archives. It is very difficult to summarize it in the time that I have - it is more than twenty-five activities -, but I would highlight fundamentally the following: in the National Library, where an exhibition is already being held on Cervantes collectivism, there will be a great exhibition, Miguel de Cervantes: from the reality to the myth, which will take place in the first semester; from the point of view of the performing arts, the premiere of Miguel de Cervantes: travels, dreams and utopias, and the premiere as well... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u96	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT OF WORK REFORM DO? [[File number 180/001289]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u97	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what does the balance of labour reform do?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u99	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Heredia, labour reform has been and is a reform for employment. Thanks to the commitment of the workers, the companies, their representatives and the whole Spanish society, and also to the reforms of the Government, Spain today has a change of direction in the labour market: unemployment drops at a rate of 7 %, job creation increases annually to 3 % and each month indefinite recruitment rises to 27 %. So much remains to be done, Mr Heredia, but we are moving in the right direction thanks to Spanish society and the government's labour reform. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u102	Minister, the People's Party promised to create 3.5 million jobs - this was the excuse for doing its job reform - but today there are 700,000 less occupied than when Rajoy arrived in the government. Today there are many more households with all their members unemployed, 1,80,000 families, and much less unemployment protection, 20% less. The job that is created is of very poor quality, and you know it. Working in our country today is no guarantee of coming to the end of the month. Nine out of ten contracts are temporary, with a duration that does not even reach two months. And there are over 400,000 employees who work less than ten hours a week. Wages have fallen and in many cases are miserable. According to the National Institute of Statistics, a person hired in 2014 charges 25% less than one hired three years earlier and one in three workers - such as Miguel, who is a waiter, or Silvia, who is an addict - charges less than 648 euros. Minister, do you think you can live decently, decently with less than 648 euros a month? If even The Economist is telling you. His Government had turned the Spaniards into emigrants around the world, into economic exiles. Another 125,000 Spaniards had to go out last year looking for an opportunity that they don't find here. There are almost one and a half million young people unemployed and, according to the latest EPA, seven out of ten jobs destroyed are women's. This is his inheritance, his and Rajoy's. This labor reform that you feel so proud of - as proud is of your fellow Rodrigo Rato - is being brought down by the courts. The Supreme Court has overturned the EREs that you supported with your labor reform. The last case was that of Coca-cola; previously, those of Telemadrid, the City of Estepona or the City of Jerez. And the National Court has given him a historic swing by giving reason to the workers in the reduction of the day. Justice is therefore against their labour reform. And it will be a socialist government that repeals it, giving back to the workers the rights that you have taken away from them. Minister, don't do any more harm, ask forgiveness, withdraw from your business and stop crushing the workers of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u103	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Heredia, the Socialist Party is not here to give employment lessons. There is a clear change of direction in the labour market. With the socialist governments 3.5 million people went to unemployment; with the People's Party today there are 260,000 fewer unemployed than when the labour reform was approved. I keep giving you data, Mr Heredia: there are 155,000 fewer unemployed among young people under the age of 30 than in 2011 and, more importantly, 345,000 workers over the age of forty-five have a job they did not have when the socialists ruled. Mr. Heredia, don't give precarious lessons. The greatest inequality and precariousness is not having a job. Today in Spain, 3 out of every 4 employees work with an indefinite contract, 76.4% - 74% when the socialists ruled - and 9 out of every 10 workers with an indefinite contract do so on a full-time basis. I'm going to give you one more data, at the end of 2014 more than 20% of indefinite contracts were signed than in 2011. So, Mr. Heredia, we're going in the right direction. Wages are agreed in collective bargaining, respect for trade unions and employers. And if you want to talk to me about people, tell me about Manuel, a doctor from the Andalusian Health Service of a socialist government, who works with a temporary contract, who have hired him for three hours and works eight hours, that the remaining five hours are paid as a guard at 15 euros gross per hour; Manuel lives with 15 euros gross per hour in Andalusia. [[Rumors]] Mr. Heredia, three years ago in Andalusia they did not do a workshop school for the unemployed and the ALPE, those 800 who hired in law fraud, they had to be recovered by the Supreme because the government sent them to unemployment. That's Susana Díaz and the socialist government of Andalusia. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE DEVELOPED WOMEN'S PATRICIA BLANQUER ALCARAZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: IS THE GOVERNMENT OF ESTABLISHING GUARANTEES TO AVOID SITUATIONS OF UNEQUALITY IN THE WORKING CONDITIONS OF WORKERS OF EXTERNALIZED SERVICE ENTERPRISES? [[File number 180/001296]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u106	She asked the Minister for Employment and Social Security, Mrs Patricia Blanquer, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, you can't teach anyone lessons, because after more than three years of the People's Party government the picture is devastating: unemployment figures are unacceptable, partial contracts are abused and half of the employees receive wages of less than 1,000 euros. Of course, you are responsible for labour poverty. Moreover, there are companies that outsource services using contracts, subcontracts and even bogus self-employed persons without being held responsible for the working conditions of the workers performing the subcontracted activity, and this is allowing situations of inequality between workers protected by contract and unprotected workers who are exploited by work. So tell me, does the Government intend to establish guarantees to prevent this situation of inequality? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u108	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, honourable Member, not employment lessons. With the Socialist Party 6 out of 10 new unemployed in the European Union were Spanish, with the People's Party 1 out of 2 jobs created today in Europe, thanks to the governments and Spanish society, it is in Spain. Today, therefore, jobs are created and unemployment is falling. Madam Member, the legislation is very clear on guaranteeing workers' rights in all companies, even when other companies are hired or subcontracted by other companies, as is clearly stated in Article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute. In addition, I remind you that the illegal transfer of workers is defined as a serious administrative offence that may constitute an offence under the Criminal Code. We have clear and forceful legislation that always protects workers' rights. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Blanquer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u111	Minister, your story is false, today there is more unemployment than when you arrived in the government. We demand that you combat the precariousness that you have generated and that you go further. Because with their labor reforms they have allowed some to ensure benefits at the expense of the worker's impoverishment. It is unfair that workers doing the same work for the same company cover less or much less simply because they do so as workers of subcontracted companies and it is unacceptable to have to endure working hours of up to twelve hours for net salaries of 700 euros, as they denounce workers of subcontracting and self-employed companies who provide services to Telefónica. To put an end to these situations, the Socialists do have answers. We want to make it a reality that at equal work, equal pay, to put an end to false self-government and to regain the strength of collective bargaining that you have disjointed. Because the data speak for themselves, it is their responsibility that there are more than 6 million workers who have ceased to be covered by a collective agreement. In addition, they have weakened the position of workers, who endure a deterioration of their working conditions for fear of losing their jobs, which is sharpened for workers of subcontracted companies, giving them a living. It is clear that they have not legislated against unemployment, but against workers' rights, forcing the weakest to bear all the sacrifice to get out of the crisis. So, Minister, you are guilty of poverty and labour exploitation. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u112	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u113	Madam Member, there is no greater poverty and labour exploitation than sending three and a half million Spaniards to unemployment when the socialist governments govern. For your information, and you can read the legislation, article 42.1 of the Workers' Statute has not changed since 1995; therefore, full guarantees for all workers. But we have done something that the former socialist government has not done in eight years, we have reinforced the sanctions and demands of responsibilities to entrepreneurs who subcontract to other companies in respect of social security contributions and wage guarantees for subcontracted workers. We have also strengthened the powers of the Labour Inspectorate to protect the rights of workers who are in subcontracting companies, pursuing the illegal transfer of workers. What I can't allow is for you to want, in an irresponsible way, to interfere in collective bargaining. In the negotiation of collective agreements between the parties, the Government is very respectful and we hope that the case to which you refer will come to a good negotiation in which the workers win and the company wins, for employment, honourable Member, and for Spain. We trust the representatives of the company and the workers; you also want to intervene in that and change it. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u114	Thank you, Minister. - OF MRS ISABEL SÁNCHEZ ROBLES, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF FOOD: DOES THE CONVENTION OF COLLABORATION BETWEEN THE RAILWAY INFRASTRUCTURE ADMINISTRATIVE AND THE BIZKAIA CONSOURCE OF TRANSPORT FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE URBINAG EXCHANGE PROJECT, IN THE SIXTH MUNICIPAL TERM? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[ADIF]] [[TBT]] [[File number 180/001284]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u115	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Development. Question Mrs Isabel Sánchez Robles, from the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u116	Thank you, President. Minister, on May 19, 2011, the signing of a collaboration agreement between ADIF and the Bizkaia Transport Consortium was formalized for the execution of the works of the exchanger of Urbinaga, in the municipality of Sestao. The purpose of the agreement was simple, to establish the mechanisms of cooperation between the two public entities for the execution of the exchanger Urbinaga-Sestao alongside the current Bilbao Metro station. Our objectives are two: the first, to promote the use of public transport by achieving intermodality of metro and tram services with the service of proximity of lines C-1 and C-2, and the second, to integrate the metropolitan rail system and proximity in the urban environment and to improve the accessibility of the exchanger. In fact, the projects have been developed since 2010, with a total investment of around EUR 10 million, which should be financed at 50% by each of the two signatories to the Convention. However, after more than four years since its signature, ADIF has repeatedly failed to comply with the commitments entered into by failing to provide in any of the financial years the precise amounts required to comply with the agreement, thus preventing the tender and the start of the works. I remind you, Minister, that this group has made amendments to the General State Budgets in the 2014 and 2015 financial years in this regard and have been rejected by your Government and by the parliamentary group that supports it. The same has not happened with the Bizkaia Transport Consortium, which has carried out in each and every one of the years - also in 2015 - to provide in its annual budgets the necessary and sufficient amounts to make this project a reality, and to collect it in its investment plan. This serious failure must be compounded by ADIF's denouncing attitude, which has ignored the requests sent from the CTB in order to conclude a meeting that would make it possible to know its willingness to comply with the commitments made; up to six times, Minister, the last one was on 9 March this year. I suppose, Minister, that it is also not necessary to remind you of the importance of this project for Bizkaia, since both Sestao and Meatzaldea, as well as all the left bank of the ria of the Nervion-Ibaizábal, are areas in which a very important part of the industrial fabric of Vizcay is located and are therefore densely populated, recording a very significant number of movements in railways. Therefore, Minister, I ask you: has the Government, at last and once and for all, planned to comply with this agreement and to carry out the necessary works to enable the improvement of this Vizcaine mobility? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President; thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. Your Honor, we do plan to do so, as we have been doing over these almost four years by enhancing the proximity of Bilbao, which is essential for the mobility of the city, since on working days more than 32,000 travellers are travelling, almost 300 trains are moving and in these four years 36 million travellers have already used them. To this network of closeness we have allocated 450 professionals who daily carry out extraordinary work, 40 million euros in maintenance, 5 million in new investments and 25 million to pay public service obligations, and we continue to work to improve the capillary and connectivity of the closeness. For all citizens to know, we're talking about connecting the Urbinaga station on Bilbao's subway to the vicinity. On 19 May 2011, two days before the local elections, the Socialist Government signed an agreement to make an intermodal station. Well, nothing was done; it took almost a year and they had done absolutely nothing but take a photo and sign two days before the local elections. Moreover, the projects they had made and launched could not be implemented for political but technical reasons, because the railway gauges were inconvenient and pedestrian communications and accesses were not resolved. The situation was therefore blocked. Fortunately, I think he's on the right track now. Meetings have been held with ETS, information has been exchanged, an agreement has been reached on track, electrification and facilities projects, and the last meeting, which was on 14 April, agreed that ADIF will develop a viable solution for the building and platform project. This time the gallibs are going to be the right ones to pass the subway and the trains. That design will therefore be ready before the end of spring, at the beginning of the summer, and we will also have the necessary budget line to carry it out. Your Honor, we don't put in projects that we're not going to do; we only put in the money when the project is over and this year there will be budget... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u119	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA JOSÉ RODRIGUEZ RAMÍREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT VALUE STATE INVESTMENT IN THE PROVINCIA OF HUELVA? [[File number 180/001274]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u120	Question to the Minister for Development by Mrs María José Rodríguez of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u121	I give the floor to the question. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u122	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President; thank you very much, Mrs Rodríguez. The Government has allocated 528 million euros to the province of Huelva in this legislature, despite the bills that left us unpaid and the crisis. [[Mrs. Sánchez García: All right!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u124	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u125	Madam Minister, the paper can handle everything. You know what I can't take anymore? It no longer endures a province that is suffocated by the lack of State investment; economic sectors that see how budget marginalization year after year when you govern make you lose competitiveness; a society that sees your expectations frustrated and gets disconnected from projects that were beginning to be a reality but that you let die. Your Honor, Huelva is a peripheral province; it is therefore a question of connecting it, not of deleting it from the map, because it is in a corner, the only one that does not have a fast and modern connection with Madrid. Well, with Madrid or by train, with Seville. Every time you rule, Huelva is relegated to the queues in investment per inhabitant. There are years when we haven't even reached half that figure. How is that possible? You are responsible for generating a deficit in the province that can be estimated at hundreds of millions, although it has difficult explanation. What is the approach of this Government, if any, to the mobility of Onubenses? And don't talk to me about crises or bills, because they've been ruling and investing in other territories for three years as we see opportunities go through Huelva at an unbearable cost. They do not drive new connections by train or motorway, nor do they maintain those that exist, such as the Huelva-Zafra line, a line that vertebrates the province from north to south, the natural departure to the sea for trains with goods of Onubense products but also extremities, a basic line for a mining that is re-emerging but that needs a transport that exceeds the speed of the steam train, that would be the alternative to avoid the collapse of a road, the N-435, that neither unfold and that does not support the current traffic nor the future, to which would be added more than a hundred trucks loaded with mineral per day. Your Honor, we have a top-level agro-industry; a powerful industrial sector; a tourist offer that would already like other destinations, enviable but poorly connected; a port with enormous possibilities; a strategic situation: border with Portugal, Africa and America. Madam Pastor, it does not fit so badly, it is not possible such a degree of oblivion or sectarianism. This treatment is not only unfair, but also intolerable and inefficient because Huelva is an opportunity for Onubenses but also for the rest of Spain and Europe. But you are a burden to our economic and social growth, because you do not give a date for a meeting or respond to the letters sent to you by institutions that are perplexing at such contempt. That is the measure of his political will: none, like his inheritance. Is it possible that the Onubense don't deserve a hole in their agenda? They occupy Huelva little and worry less. Well, now, in campaign, you'll be coming soon. I hope you don't turn your back on the Onubenses, like the last time you were... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth, Your Honor, is that I am glad in the morning because the paper actually endures everything. "Zapatero announces an extension of the AVE network in Andalusia to Huelva", year 2007. Next: "Calatrava sets up a tower of 353 meters for the AVE in Huelva", 2007. Wait, there's more. [[Laughter]] This happened a few years ago, when the role did hold everything; the role was the common currency of the Socialist Party, if they were not grandiose statements, they were power points. "ADIF discards the station of Calatrava for its overly hidden, according to Guerrero". I finish the review to the hemerotheque: "White is committed to the AVE Sevilla-Huelva". [[Rumors]] Your Honor, don't miss the truth. Huelva, Your Honor, is one of the provinces of Spain where employment grows the most, to begin with. I think it's very important that you don't miss the truth. What you did when you were in government was promise you were going to make a high-speed line of 1.2 billion. [[Laughter]] There was no line and there was no 1.2 billion. What there was, as I tell you, was all unpaid. As regards investments in 2015, the truth is missing because there is a 35% increase over 2011. There's more, Your Honor, we've invested in roads. In the A-49, which affects both you - all the citizens of Huelva - and all the Spaniards, we have completed the work of the Bormujos-Benacazón section of 25 million, the drafting of projects in Benacazón. [[Rumors]] Yes, in the province, they miss so much. And we are in the drafting of the projects between Benacazón and Chucena. Also, after adjusting the track... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u128	Wait a minute, Minister. I pray silently, that the minister be heard in the reply. [[Sicilia Alferez: But he doesn't talk about Seville]] Mr. Sicilia, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u129	In order to go to Huelva we have to pass through Seville, except that we go by plane. [[Several Members: Ah!]] Yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen, the A-49, which I've been through many times. In addition to that, we will begin in May the works of the variant of Beas and Trigueros, which I do not know where you were. We are also devoting money to rehabilitate the international bridge of Ayamonte; we have reactivated the works of the station of Huelva, that pharaonic work that you were going to do but never again knew about. Thank you, Your Honor... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u130	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON DON PABLO MARTÍN PERÉ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE MINISTER BALANCE REALIZE ON THE GOVERNMENT'S INVESTMENT POLICY IN THE BALLAR ISLANDS DURING THIS LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/001275]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u131	Question to the Minister for Development of Mr Pablo Martín Peré, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what is the Government's assessment of the investments made by the State during the current legislature in the Community of the Balearic Islands?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u133	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Martín Peré. The Government has allocated EUR 1.5 billion for investments to the Balearic Islands in this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Martín Peré.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u136	Minister, let me tell you something. Today you are acting as Mr Montoro's telonera, it was up to him to answer this question because we all know that the ministry that ultimately decides what amounts are coming in the area of justice, tourism and infrastructure is also Mr Montoro's, not his. However, you are part of the government that has allocated an average investment during the current legislature in Balearic Islands of 95 euros per citizen, while the average for the rest of the autonomous communities was 240 euros: 95 versus 240, almost three times more, and that is what I want you to explain to me. I understand perfectly well that when you face an autonomous government that makes submission and acceptance of humiliation virtue, as is the case with Mr Bauzá's government, you think you are authorized to do everything you want, but when you approve those budgets to whom you harm it is not your party or Mr Bauzá's government, who harm it is every family with scarce resources, every entrepreneur who has to face the crisis and every person who is at risk of social exclusion. It is to them, who are also represented in this House, to whom I ask you to explain; explanations, that word that they find so difficult to conjugate and practice. Do you know what's going on? That they can no longer resolve this situation because they are not going to be in the government again in the next legislature, so, aside from explanations, I demand that you ask the citizens of Balearic Islands for forgiveness for the comparative aggravation to which you have subjected us during this entire legislature. I am sorry, Mrs Pastor, because this is the only word left to you before an autonomous community, before citizens who are going to remind you of the government and the party that deliberately punished us year after year. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u137	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr. Martin. Perhaps what you would like is for us to follow the model of the Socialist Party, the model - do you remember? - of the road agreement with the Balearic Government, which in 2005 unilaterally annulled another socialist government, which was also laid down - if I may say so - by the courts and left a debt of 90 million euros; or the model of the Majorca train and the light train of the Bay of Palma, for which they offered 480 million and never again knew. You have missed the truth, you have missed the truth before all the Spaniards and citizens of the Balearic Islands, because the government of Mariano Rajoy allocates in 2015 to investments 9 % more than it was destined in 2011. Yes, Your Honor. Moreover, since Fomento we have allocated more than 2 billion in this legislature, of which almost 1,800 are for investments; to roads, 136 million - we have paid, by the way, the 90 of the road agreement - to the Majorca train, 19 million. We have worked intensively to ensure the mobility of the residents of the Balearic Islands, investing a total of 358 million euros to date, which will reach 471 in the entire legislature. In Mallorca we found that the cruises of more than 360 meters could not be attended and in Ibiza there were problems in the operation of the mixed commercial traffics. For this reason, we have allocated more than 160 million to the ports; to airports, more than 55 only in Palma de Mallorca, and finally, to housing, 63 million euros. I'm sure you don't think so, Your Honor, but we're certainly proud of what we're doing. The Ministry of Industry has allocated 270 million; the Ministry of Agriculture, 149. Finally, Your Honor, this Government, despite the crisis and the debts that have left us, is promoting the quality of life and well-being of all the citizens of the Balearic Islands. From here I want to convey my affection to the citizens who yesterday had an accident at sea and who, thanks to all the public services, especially to Salvamento Marítimo, Red Cross, the State Security Forces and Corpses and emergency services of the community, are today safe in their homes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u139	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN'S MUCH SANTAMARIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT DATE DOES THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDE TO FINALIZE THE WORK OF ENLARGEMENT OF THE LITORAL ROUND IN THE MONTJUIC-EL MORROT? [[File number 180/001294]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u140	She asked the Minister for Development to ask Mrs Lourdes Muñoz of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u141	Madam Minister, I am asking you this question because if your Government had continued with the implementation of this project, you would have already opened the expansion of the coastal round, and now we do not even know the date. On what date does the Government plan to complete the extension of the coastal round on the Montjuic-El Morrot stretch?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u142	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Muñoz, this government has worked intensively in this legislature in Catalonia, you know it well. Of the 9 billion budget, 5,730 have been in Barcelona and many of the actions have been carried out in the urban environment. We are working to draft the project and start work on the expansion of the coastal round. I imagine you are asking here today - it has not been agreed until now, after three years and peak - because you have seen that there is an agreement between the institutions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u144	Thank you, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u145	In this section of the round, the entrance through the coast to the center of Barcelona, great retentions are generated. At the end of the last legislature, a draft consensus was under way. With a four-year planning, the second informational study was ready, half a year remained of construction project, bidding and three years of work. But what happened? That both right-wing, Catalan and Spanish, have stopped this process because they have been on their backs. For three years, you had turned your back on Catalonia with your attitudes of not having a dialogue with a government because of being a nationalist, and your counterpart, the mayor of Barcelona, with his independence agenda, did not sit with the Spanish government either. You reacted after the great sovereignist demonstrations, but your answer is that you visit us more, you take more photos, but the works are still delayed and dateless. After this paralysis they have reached an agreement, it is true, a very bad agreement for Barcelona. Barcelona has to pay more and supposes to start again and delay this process further. Meanwhile, the citizens of Barcelona continue with the collapses in the round. This has not been answered, we have no date and we have lost a legislature. Look, all of Barcelona's major infrastructures are either dated or delayed; neither the Sagrera station nor Sants station nor access to the port. When you want to be a good negotiator, you know how to dialogue and reach agreements, but with Barcelona the agreements do not arrive. I don't know if he's doing the same thing. You are minister of all the people who live in Spain, also of those we live in Barcelona, also of Catalans and Catalans. In addition you are responsible for this issue, because it is the one that has exclusive competence over the round, and at least it is co-responsible with Mayor Trias that the expansion of the round is not finished. Accelerate the works and do not generate any more detachment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u146	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. The truth is that in terms of infrastructure in Barcelona you are not to give lessons, because if I am listing you one by one the works that were stopped when I arrived and that I had to start up would not give me time in two minutes or an hour. But above all, do not try to give lessons on the subject of El Morrot. In November 2007, they began drafting the information study and in December 2011, when we arrived at the government, they had done absolutely nothing, there was no project, there was nothing, and we managed to unlock it and reach agreements with the City Council of Barcelona. On 31 March we signed the proposal for the transfer of the railway freight facilities from Barcelona to Morrot and the transformation of the freed land for the enjoyment of all citizens, which is very important. This solution is achieved with urban integration, facilitates urban development and industrial development, increases the capacity of the coastal round and improves connections. Once this agreement is signed, as you know, what we are doing is starting the drafting of the project and construction, if possible, throughout this year. But we've done a lot more. We have improved the link of El Prat del Llobregat; we have started the works of the new south road access to the port of Barcelona of more than 130 million, which you were unable to start up; the link between the highway of the Lower Llobregat and the AP-7 motorway in Castellbisbal; the variant of Vallirana, which was stopped; the highway connecting the coastal round and the C-32 motorway in Barcelona; the orbital highway of Barcelona, whose works on the intermediate stretch between Olesa de Montserrat and Viladecavalls we have restarted last week. Your Honor, if we don't do anything else than... [[applause.-Mr.Canongia Gerona: It's not true, it's not true!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u148	Thank you, Minister. Don't interrupt the minister, who was ending at that very moment. Maybe he was gonna say it later, but he couldn't.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u149	We started with the interpellations. Question by the Socialist Group to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration on his position on actions to avoid confusion and conflict between public and private interests. For your defence, Mrs Rodríguez Ramos has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am not going to ask you about what you want - I have not told you what we are talking about today, Mr Montoro - but about conflicts of interest. First of all, I want to tell you something. I go up to this rostrum with my income statement because I'm tired of every time we ask you from this rostrum I make veiled accusations about tax data, which you know because of your office, politicians, trade unionists and artists. Here's my rent statement; if you have any hints to make, we'll see it. [[Applauds]] It is a statement of income that has never made me any economic office because there is only one payroll, the payroll I charge as public office. No payoffs, no compatibility; my payroll. [[Applauds]] Minister, I am asking you today about your position on conflicts of interest because you are responsible for registration and this matter. The law adopted in 2006 on conflicts of interest of senior officials and members of the Government represented a substantial advance in the delimitation of public and private interests and in the objective of achieving greater impartiality in the exercise of public office and avoiding any kind of conflict of private interests and influence trafficking. However, during this parliamentary term we have seen that on numerous occasions the Government to which you belong has crossed this line. There are many ministers - it has been said today throughout the morning - such as Mr Morenes, Mr Catalá or the Minister for Agriculture, who have no doubt interests in the matters they manage today. But I believe, Minister, that this is a more fundamental problem and that it is about the way in which you understand public life, private life or good politics, to which the Vice-President referred. Let me read to you very briefly a reflection in a parliamentary debate by a Member of the Group of the European People's Party. He said: What incompatibility can there be between holding a position on a private board of directors and having two positions in the public sector, being an official and also teaching at the university? If there is no time problem, there is no incompatibility, because there are many activities that can be done at home, at night, while watching television, which because they do not have time, do not involve conflicts of interest. This was said long ago by Mr Arias Cañete, who from 1982 to 2014 compatible his public office with multiple economic and financial activities, being the last related to companies linked to the energy sector: Petrologis Ducar, Petrologis Canarias. He played them all these years at night, at home, watching television, after sitting on the Council of Ministers as Minister of the Environment. Mr. Montoro, I'm asking you about this because you're responsible, but believe me, I'm sorry, because you're the paradigm of the fine line between the private and the public. Your office, Montoro and Associates - today it has also been said here - that you founded in 2006 and that then became Economic Team to remove your name, had in its foundation all the economic team of your previous time as minister and that then has passed in some cases - now too - to your team as minister. Pilar Platero, his current secretary; Salvador Ruiz Gallud, former Director General of the Tax Agency; Ricardo Martínez Rico, former Secretary of State for Budgets; Francisco Piedras Camacho, former Director of the Cabinet of the Minister. All of them make them known in legal traffic as the Montoro boys. There were so many people from your economic team and Rat's when they founded it that in an interview you said they weren't going to engage with public administrations. But, Minister, since you've been in government the Montoro boys' office has increased your billing. In 2008, it billed 2.9 million; in 2011, despite the economic crisis, 5.5 million; in 2012, 6.6 million, a 127% increase in billing, while there were cuts in everything. They made contracts like that of 2012 with the Superior Council of Chambers of Commerce and contracts with the Community of Madrid in 2008, when Mr Beteta was Councillor of Economics, and in 2009, when Mrs.Engracia Hidalgo, now Secretary of State, was Councillor of Family. Mr Montoro, I will not say any more because I do not have time, but you still have to answer a question I have asked you on several occasions. You said that Rat didn't need this office to come back, but it does seem to have needed many of you to bleach. You have to answer a question and you will finally answer it. Have you advised this office that you founded fraudsters who have hosted the tax amnesty that you designed and that your government approved? Mr Montoro, we also met last week with a truly alarming episode about a former Member of Parliament, a former Minister and a former Member of the Government today as ambassador to the United Kingdom. We have known that this former minister, together with Pujalte and Ana Torme, were advising a company, Collosa, whose turnover is 90% in public works in Castile and León. Mr Pujalte and Mr Trillo went out immediately to say that it was legal because they had requested compatibility from the Congress of Deputies and Congress had given it to them to work as lawyers and economists. I want to hold in this rostrum that, if it's true what it seems, this is not legal. First of all, we have known that Mr Trillo and Mr Pujalte collected 354,000 euros in an office with Mrs Ana Torme - Senator at the moment - through investigations that the Tax Agency has raised to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office to investigate what the Tax Agency itself calls an organized plot of people and companies with sharing of functions that is maintained in time for the collection of at least 110 million euros for the sale of environmental licenses for wind farms in my community, Castile and León. Precisely in this investigation the Collosa company appears and investigating that company we know the contracts of two offices, one of Mr Trillo and one of Mr Pujalte. Mr Trillo said immediately, in a telephone conversation with a journalistic medium: everything is legal, and I have to tell you that I with these gentlemen did not talk about public works - although it accounts for 90% of the company's turnover - and I have nothing to do with wind farms because they were already granted when the contract was made to me. I want to point out here two dates. On February 10, 2006, Mr. Trillo made a contract with Collosa for coffee. In September 2005, his brother, Pablo Trillo-Figueroa, had been appointed secretary-general of the Economics Council of the Junta de Castilla y León, which is the only one who grants these licences, with the concentration of all powers in the councillor, the vice-counselor and the high offices of this councillor. Precisely 2006, 2007 and 2008 were the years in which the largest number of licenses were granted under this alleged plot organized by the Government of Castilla y León presided over by President Herrera; a plot of extortion and pillage, where intermediary companies appeared to obtain environmental licenses and, after obtaining them, raised their shares as if it were the miracle of bread and fish, from 5 to 100, and sold them, making a big ball and getting a big bite, to the final companies that executed the parks. That's why I'm telling you, Mr. Montoro, if this is what it looks like, of course it's not legal. We have a perfect circle here, Mr. Montoro. We have a People's Party government that has been ruling this community for twenty-eight years and is being investigated for having woven this plot of extortion and looting into the sale of environmental licenses worth zero. We have a high office of the council where these licenses were given, Pablo Trillo-Figueroa, who was the brother of the owner of one of the offices that hire themselves to drink coffee, Mr Trillo, today ambassador. By the way, Pablo Trillo is also accused today, together with other members of the Economics Council, of the construction of a building of the Economics Council that involved an urban ball of more than 30 million. Look at you, the building was also built by an investigated plot company. We have large offices with PP deputies. We also have the Association of Wind Energy Promoters of Castile and León, whose secretary-general is the brother of the Minister of Agriculture and the vice-president is the owner of the Collosa company, with which Mr Pujalte, Mr Trillo and Mrs Torme were drinking coffee, who do not know what we are doing. Therefore, Minister, if that is what it seems, it is not legal. Yesterday we experienced a case of shameful incompatibility for any democracy of a Member of the House also of its ranks. I say this from here: it is not legal to work with a contract for a bank to execute evictions while you sit in a seat of the Congress of Deputies where you have to legislate to guarantee the right to decent housing for citizens. [[Applauds]] It is so unlegal, Minister, that even Mr Conde did not ask for compatibility with Congress. Now you'll tell me: Mrs. Rodriguez, and what do I do? You, as responsible for public administrations and conflicts of interest, must bring to the government immediately, tomorrow, a reform of the Loreg, of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, because this is not a matter for Congress, this is a matter for the government. Incompatibilities are regulated in the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime. To that law and to the law on the control of the financial activity of the political parties, my group tabled a number of amendments which you rejected. I ask you to bring the reform of this organic law immediately to the Council of Ministers and to consider two things in this reform: the first, a clear restriction on the system of granting compatibility to Members and Senators, so that it is true that public senatorial work cannot be compatible with private work, to restrict it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u151	Ma'am, Rodriguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u152	I'm done, President. In addition, to empower the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy to verify whether what is stated in the Statute Commission is true, to give it powers with which it can investigate sanctioning files requiring the necessary evidence to verify, that it can have sanctioning powers and that it lifts the relevant sanctions to the Congress of Deputies when the deputy has omitted data, when the deputy has falsified them, when the deputy is exercising a compatibility to which he is not entitled and that he can also refer these reports to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, as well as to all State bodies that have competence in the actions he has identified. They must give genuine transparency to the public record of the interests of deputies and senators...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u153	Mrs. Rodriguez, finish now, you've got a second shift left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u154	...with publicity and access by all citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u155	Go ahead, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rodríguez, first of all, I would like to remind you that we already have a regulation in Spain, Law 3/2015 of 30 March, which regulates the exercise of the high office of the General Administration of the State; a law which has passed this House very recently to which the Socialist Group has not at the time presented the initiatives you have just referred to. This law did not count on your support. You publicly stated that it was not enough, but you could have taken advantage of the vehicle of the law to carry out parliamentary initiatives regarding the content of incompatibilities such as those you have just mentioned. Why didn't you do it? Does he do it now? I am talking about Law 3/2015, of 30 March; it is not yet over the month of April and you are already in the next. All right, every moment has its chance, but I'm afraid you're confusing the political opportunity with the occurrence, and you're going to what we call in political terms jump-off. Is there anything? I'm there to say and promote what they weren't promoting a few weeks ago. Why didn't they promote him a few weeks ago? That in the first place. Secondly, its concept of incompatibilities. I disagree with that concept and have already said it publicly; I radically disagree with that concept of what politics is. One thing is to regulate the conflict of interests in a very clear and express way, and the other thing is to understand that politics is incompatible with everything. This seems to me to be a misconception that, in my opinion and in my experience, has led to governments in this country who later do not know what to do with that capacity of government and with that political capacity, because they have no experience, they do not know what companies are, they do not know what the economic world is, they do not know what the financial world is. But then those rulers are the first, honourable Member, in which when they finish their periods of government they ask for compatibility to go to work at those companies. Mr Solbes, when his term ends here, in the midst of an economic crisis, where will he work? Is he retiring on the European Commissioner's salary? No, it's going to work on the matrix of an Italian multinational, Enel, which is Endesa's matrix. Compatible. What does the socialist government do when it leaves the government? Up to forty socialist posts demand compatibility; up to forty. And it seems right to me. And the Office of Conflicts of Interest is heading to where those senior positions are headed. The first is Vice-President Salgado, who goes to work for private companies within two months; the Vice-President Economica. Where were you in that legislature? Was he in the administration or wasn't he? I'd swear I was, wouldn't I? When you do everything is valid, everything is perfect, everything is right. But I insist that I do not start from that principle; I start from the principle of strict application of the conflict of interest when you are exercising a public office. I think it is much more complete for my country - and that is why I want it - that people coming to politics who come strictly from the political career, and people who come from different professions, who do not have to be exclusively professions like for example - I also have it, the first - university professor. I'm going to give you another fact and another fact about myself. I am now in public office and it is an honour for me to be a member of the Government of Spain; I have already been for another time, and therefore I am also one of the most experienced ministers in the sense of time spent as such. Today, as Minister of Public Administration, I have a payroll in which I have thirteen three years of dedication. I mean, I started having my first contract with the university, which of course was an assistant contract - of the smallest - in 1973, which makes me accumulate that time. I have accumulated thirteen trienniums and I have made the entire university career until I reach the chair without ever being full-time, that is, I have worked to make it compatible with the career, first, in a bank seven and a half years - it seems to me an excellent experience -; second, in a think tank, Institute of Economic Studies, where I did different counseling - it seems to me an excellent experience - and at the same time I was a professor at the public university and at different masters, that yes, I worked fourteen or fifteen hours a day, as now, as my whole life. By the way, all this is computing in terms of that experience and the trienniums accumulated in the administration. That is why I radically disagree, I say so. You have one concept of politics and I have another. I find it enriching for my country to come to work people who really know other realities, because if they don't, any area of politics, including government responsibility, is very impoverished. That is so, by delimiting the conflicts of interest that occur in this approach, Mrs Rodríguez, by delimiting them. You will defend an approach, but I only tell you that three and a half years ago you did not defend the same approach. Up to forty senior officials from the previous administration asked for compatibility, including several ministers - I have just cited some cases, but I can continue to report some others - who went to different companies. Was that the subject of your criticism? Did the Socialist Party do anything to Mr. Rubalcaba at the head? No, he did nothing, it seemed absolutely normal to him, provided that the requirements of the law were obviously met. But now we are on something else, we have taken another step that you call qualitative, especially because of the novelty that incorporates in the approach of urgent inquiry to the Minister of Finance and Public Administrations. I will read - so that we can all see the originality of the approach and the actuality of the issues to which it refers - the "Diary of Sessions" of the Congress of 13 February 2013. [[The Minister for Finance and Public Administration shows a role]] You were the spokesman for the Socialist Group, and that is why I say that the approach you are taking today is very original. I said: I have already asked you a written question that you have not answered me, and I repeat it to you today in this House. The former office that you founded in 2004, Montoro and Asociados, which was dedicated and dedicated, under another name, to the advice of business projects, specifically to fusion and tax taxation, have you advised defrauders who have hosted this amnesty? I repeat, 13 February 2013. I keep reading: Because it would be a truly reprehensible and unbearable image for Spanish citizens that, while their former office billed for advising the defrauders, the minister from the ministry modified the decree-law to the demands of them. This is older than the legislature. They take you with this subject all the time. [[Rumors]] It ended with another originality that we also heard this morning and yesterday in the Senate: What I am asking you to do, Mr Montoro, is to resign immediately - today I have not listened to it, but I was saying it on 13 February -; your stay in the Ministry of Finance at this time is preventing the fraudsters who have taken up this tax amnesty, and who have declared funds of criminal origin, from being investigated because you forbid it. Can you keep that today? That I've banned it, or that the alleged illegality of the rents that came under tax regularization is being investigated? It is quite the opposite; but you continue with the same themes, we take you out for a walk and dance, and if we are at the end of the legislature even more. I cannot, as a Government, speak about the Statute of Deputies. This is a matter for the House. If you have a legislative initiative, I insist, you could have inserted it in the amendment of the Conflict of Interest Act, on the regulation of senior positions that has just been dealt with in this House. Secondly, Mrs Rodriguez, when I sat in that seat - I've already told you I don't know how many times, but I'll tell you again in a second - I left the company I founded. Founding a company is a positive fact for a country - it creates activity, employment, it pays taxes - but for you founding a company is like something sinful. And then they say, "What happens to us when we rule?" Because companies are not founded, there is no economic activity, it is shrinking, and jobs are being destroyed. It's systematic. That's right, when his senior officials finish their action they want to go to work at the companies. That is very consistent within its socialist philosophy. As I told you, I founded it with eight or nine other people, and I can't report anything since she left it in April 2008, seven years ago. I came here, dedicated myself exclusively, and therefore I cannot explain something I am not, not since I am a minister as you say, but since I am a Member of this House. With which, Your Honor, you continue with the tick; what we are going to do to you, each has its own approach. I cannot respond to the incompatibilities of Members and I cannot respond to the actions of other administrations. Indeed, the Government of Castile and León has already given all the relevant public explanations, and you are asking me, as a member of the Government of Spain, about a matter that is already being answered in the relevant areas. But you come to do that kind of politics. I insist that you do not want to see whether the Government's action in regulating conflicts of interest is leading to an improvement in economic activity, whether Spain is emerging from the crisis, whether jobs are being created, whether the budgetary policy of all public administrations is contributing to that, or whether we have lowered taxes in this exercise and are collecting more, also because there is more and more economic activity and partly because the submerged economy is flourishing. And above all they do not want to recognize that the tax regularization and the extension of the Anti-Fraud Law have led us to know tax information equivalent to 124 billion euros that had tax residents in Spain and that they had not declared them in 2012, and that we know today. Only in 2013 have we known that 20 billion euros are declared in the form of deposits in Switzerland. And Mrs Rodríguez, you who were in the Socialist Administration - you were Secretary of State, as I know it - ask yourself why these tax changes were not carried forward in the Socialist Administration so that it would be possible for the prosecution of tax fraud to reach the levels it is reaching, and above all so that we could be sure that assets that should be declared to the Public Treasury would be declared. Today they are, and all taxpayers are equal before tax laws. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u157	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Rodriguez Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u158	Minister, we do indeed have a very different concept of politics, of the exercise of politics and of political ethics, and also, if I may, of parliamentary work. You are very skilled at distorting what is said in this rostrum. I have just told you that in the Law on the Control of the Financial Activity of Political Parties my parliamentary group tabled two amendments: one, to make the mandate of Members and Senators incompatible with the performance of private activities, restricts the field of exclusions, leaving it basically reduced to activities of intellectual creation, teaching. [[Show a document]] Secondly, we are presenting it to give the Committee on the Statute of the Member new powers. You rejected them, we voted against this law. I have therefore referred to this, and of course we have tabled these amendments, we have tabled them in other resolutions, but here are the amendments. I ask, please, someone from the House, the ujier, to give the Minister the text of the amendments to the Financial Activity Control Act. Be a little more rigorous, Minister. There seems to be no one, but now I give it to you. [[Applauds]] Minister, of course we also have different concepts. I didn't hear him...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u159	Wait a minute, Mrs. Rodriguez. It's not that there's no one, it's that it's not the procedure. When you're done, bring the paper if you want or leave it there to the minister for you to take.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u160	Excuse me. We're not gonna argue about that.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u161	Go on. Don't say there's no ushers.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u162	Excuse me, I have no problem giving it to Mr. Montoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u163	Leave it there; Mr. Montoro will take it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u164	I was telling him that we have a very different concept. You think coming from the private sector, having been working at Lehman Brothers is a good guarantee for management. There he is, there he has Rat sinking Bankia, there he is. Minister, of course we have different concepts. You tell me about your great law, Law 3/2015, of 30 March, regulator of the high office of the State, a law that clearly fails to comply. [[The lady]] Mr. Montoro, an early warning system sets out in this law to detect cases of incompatibility. He doesn't need early warning, call me. You call me on the phone and I already tell you that being for the previous four years being a advisor to a cluster bomb company, Installation, being a delegate adviser to a French missile company, and being a advisor or president of a security company, which is awarded the safety of tuna vessels in the area of Somalia, is incompatible with sitting on the Council of Ministers and asking you for extraordinary credits year after year to pay for the weapons material that he sold as a advisor to these companies No early warning is needed, you call me at any time and I already alert you. [[Applauds]] Not a single reflection, Mr Montoro, today in this rostrum in relation to Trillo, in relation to Pujalte? Not a single reflection on former Senator Ana Torme, who says they set up a company, Sirga XXI, a few days before Mr Pujalte began to charge the same as Mr Trillo did when he left as ambassador to London? Not a single thought? Of course we have a different concept! Do you think that 9,000 euros or 5,000 euros a month for drinking a coffee from a company that says that a well-informed Member is worth more than a consultant is something normal? Do you think that's normal? Not a single thought? Don't you have any curiosity as to why this company is seen in a plot of illegal concessions, designed by the government of its party partner, Mr Herrera? Not a single thought? And you also always say: it is that now I act, and directing the ministry and the Tax Agency you know the issues. Well, I'll ask him and see if he can answer me. We have heard this report from the Castile and León Tax Agency, which was referred to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, ladies and gentlemen, because the inspector responsible recorded it in a register. That is a clearly abnormal procedure, because, do you know what the inspectors are doing? They raise it to the top of the hierarchy. But it is that the delegate of the Tax Agency of Castile and Leon - who by the way you appointed her - Mrs Georgina Lastra, former secretary general of the Treasury Board, did not receive this report. There are indications that this report was being stopped, and the inspector had to record it, because otherwise, it was not coming out.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u165	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u166	And the question I ask you, Mr Montoro, is this: did you have any coffee with Georgina Lastra to ask what was going on with the report that this inspector had made on the business plot in Castile and León? Did you pick up the phone and ask someone, when you found out that Mr. Trillo and Mr. Pujalte were one of the big offices, or small ones, because they constituted them a few days before they started charging? Did you ask anyone if they were actually in these big offices with the companies that are brokers of this plot of looting and extortion, where, Mr. Montoro, there is a ball of 110 million...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u167	Mrs. Rodriguez, I'll conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u168	I'm done, Madam President. ... in the concession of thirty-five wind farms in my community, with the government of President Herrera? But do you know how many wind farms there are in Castile and León? There's two hundred and twenty. When the investigation is over, what number will we be talking about? That EUR 110 million is 18.3 billion of the old pesetas. Mr. Montoro, you ask me what I want you to do. I want you to act as a government, I want you to bring to the Council of Ministers the amendment of the Organic Law on Electoral Reform...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u169	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u170	...because we're tired, Mr. Montoro. We are tired of Members, politicians who do not inherit offices, who are not going to leave their offices to our children, who in this you also have biological determinism.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u171	Mrs. Rodriguez, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u172	We're tired of you not feeling ashamed. Yesterday the last Member discovered in the incompatibility said: I am not ashamed of anything. Do you know what I'm saying? You're not ashamed, but you're embarrassing us all. So we're not going to allow it, and we've been in this legislature for a while... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u173	Mrs. Rodriguez, I'm so sorry, but your time is up. Thank you so much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Rodríguez, you with your style vehemently surpass me much in any debate, I am already used to throughout this legislature. I'm going to lower the tone to make some considerations. When's all this getting to know you? With you in the government? When were you Secretary of State? Or are the institutions functioning rigorously and effectively at this time? [[Protests by Mrs Rodríguez Ramos]] We'll see what the consequences of those investigations are, but what you've done here is also another disqualification. You disqualify everyone, the delegate of the Tax Agency in Castile and Leon, in Valladolid, whom I don't know. How am I supposed to meet a person who's a tax agency delegate? You understand institutions as susceptible to manipulation. That's the difference. That's the difference. [[Rumors]] I told you yesterday in the Senate. Apparently that's what you should try to do. But I guarantee and guarantee to all Spaniards that this does not happen, that neither that institution nor the General Intervention of the State nor so many other institutions that are allowing us in Spain to really make progress, also in avoiding, in laying down the procedures so that none of the things that we are aware of today, which are rightly alarming, do not happen. However, we must allow research to be completed and not make political and partisan use of the functioning of the institutions. Besides, Mrs. Rodriguez, anyone can see it. What is happening at this stage with a People's Party government and what was happening with the previous socialist governments? What was going on? It will now turn out that corruption is new in Spain, that there was never a governor of the Banco de España who had an account in Switzerland. It's just, it looks like it's new everything you're bringing in. It's not new, it's the human condition, and that's fought with effective laws and institutions persecuting those behaviors effectively, and that's what's happening right now, bad as it weighs; just like in paying taxes, as I used to say to a fellow banker. When I left the Ministry of Finance the big companies were paying very high taxes, when I came back many of those big companies did not pay taxes. The crisis. Change the tax rules for these big companies to pay taxes. We have brought these tax changes here, and today they are paying taxes in Spain, and that makes our tax system more equitable, and we have a tax agency with a high degree of efficiency. He can no longer maintain what he maintained in February 2013: there are instructions for inspectors not to inspect. On the contrary, tax agency inspectors enjoy full freedom and cooperate in the assistance of the justice system from the point of view and personal professionalism. That is why you must not make such criticisms, especially coming from whom you come and having been a member of a government where nothing happened, and where nothing was practiced. That's why there was a government relief in Spain; there was a crisis that destroyed hundreds of thousands of companies, 3.5 million jobs were destroyed, but that had nothing to do with the rest. [[Protests]] No one in the Government of Spain developed the premiums for renewables, which have subsequently led to exaggerations at least; that was not done by anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, the socialist governments did it, they did it... [[Denials by Mr Gordo Pérez]] Or isn't it? Didn't they? Didn't they? [[Protests]] Well, nothing. We have had to come to correct that so that today Spain is recovering in economic terms from all those very serious holes, including the tariff deficit, and we can now have a component of energy evolution that helps Spain's competitiveness and economic recovery. [[Protests by Mr. Elorza González]] But you are not interested in these debates, you are in others, but I am interested in the debate on the effective functioning of the institutions, so, Mrs Rodríguez, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, ask yourself why today there is so much effectiveness in the institutions and when you were ruling there was no effectiveness at all, and we were living a political discredit for the ineffectiveness of a government that passively attended the development of the worst cancer that a society and a country could have, which is the generation of unemployment, the destruction of jobs, the systematic destruction of businesses, with a wrong policy like that being done from that blue bank, where you were at the top of that administration working to bring Spain to the economic disaster we were reaching. [[Rumors]] [[Protests by Mrs Rodríguez Ramos and Mr Gordo Pérez]] [[Protests by Mrs Rodríguez Ramos and Mr Elorza González]] I'm done. I insist, Mrs Rodríguez, that, of course, we must first let the laws that we have passed show their effectiveness, and we must leave the institutions complete freedom to function, as well as have the confidence of the officials who are in those institutions. [[Protests by Mrs Rodríguez Ramos]] They, with their work, with their effort, with their capacity, are the ultimate guarantor of the rule of law in Spain. But don't go ahead with events and don't make the other one's politics, to be angry, to be embarrassed; go to the debates that are also fundamental to the citizens, and ask yourself, Mrs Rodríguez, why we are now knowing what we have not met with you in the governments of Spain. [[Protests by Mrs Rodríguez Ramos and Mr Elorza González]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u175	Thank you, Minister. - the Joint Parliamentary Group,, on the acts of commemoration of the seventeenth anniversary of the liberation of the MAUTHAUSEN EXTERNAL FIELD, where more than seven thousand republicans of the Spanish state were killed, and other camps, as well as the end of the Second World War. [[Señor Tardà]] [[File number 172/000306]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u176	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the Joint Group, in particular Mr Tardà, on the events commemorating the seventy-year anniversary of the self-liberation of the Mauthausen extermination camp, where more than 7,000 Republicans from the Spanish State and other camps were killed, as well as the end of the Second World War. Mr Tardà has the floor for his presentation and defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I present this question to you and your Government following the commemoration of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi extermination camps and the end of the Second World War, and once again I present in this Congress facts that should be recognized by the Spanish State - which you represent - in a legally valid form and with the legal recognition of Spain's participation in the political persecution carried out by the Axis countries, which was confronted by the Alliance which subsequently gave rise to the birth of the United Nations. Mauthausen was the camp of the persecuted politicians and not just the Republicans. It was also a field classified as category III, that is, extermination. There they were killed and exterminated politicians from virtually all European and other countries outside Europe - in total more than fifty nationalities - and thousands of Republicans arrested and detained as a result of being arrested as members of the French Army from June 1940, who were transferred to concentration camps where the Geneva Convention was respected, but who were then deported with Franco's consent, who informed the German authorities that, outside the borders, there were no Spaniards. Thousands of Republicans were also arrested by the Gestapo and sent directly to the camps and there is also the case of the railway convoy of the 927 civilians who were in the camp of Les Alliers, next to the city of Angulema. I repeat, Franco not only disagreed, but he agreed with Berlin on the status of stateless persons, which is why in Mauthausen, as you know, Republicans were not identified with the red handkerchief of political prisoners but with the blue handkerchief of stateless persons. [[Shows a blue handkerchief with the letter S.-Applause]] This is the reality as a result of the fact that deportation orders determined that the Republicans should be stripped of their status as prisoners, ultimately a symbiosis of interests between the Franco regime, interested in the German authorities handing over to Companies, Peiró and other senior Republican leaders, and the German authorities interested in having slave labour. As you know, minister, the testimonies of what happened there were taken by legal officers of the III Corps of the United States Army, among which there were some who later managed to conduct cases settled in Nuremberg, which is why the Republicans of the Spanish State were recognized as victims by the court and the Nuremberg sentences. And that, so many years later, I myself - and forgive petulance - have to open this inquiry by reminding it that it means that in this state, born in 1978, a democratic state, it is unknown that these facts have legal value and an enormous symbolic value. I say it plainly. A government such as yours, integrated in the democratic Europe, cannot ignore it and cannot limit itself to promoting moral recognition, as happened yesterday in the Constitutional Commission, because we speak of the great attack on the common conscience of humanity that represented fascism and national socialism, because we refer to the extreme and systematic cruelty exercised by both regimes, whose crimes were brought to the Nuremberg strata, and their prosecution - and this is really the important thing - gave rise to the current international criminal law, especially the criminal type of crimes against humanity, then the Spanish State must correct, and it should be a good occasion in this year 2015 to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the Nazi extermination camps and the end of the Second World War, in short, ladies and gentlemen, correct to approve other States that have recognized the victims legally and, I repeat, not as the non-law proposal adopted yesterday in the Constitutional Commission on the proposal of the Socialist Party, which confines itself to recognizing a simple act of tribute and the granting of honours. This is another toast to the sun, another aesthetic act devoid of content. There is no real content, therefore, without legal recognition and without justice, any tribute is hollow; without legal recognition, victims do not exist. Before any tribute, the Spanish State must assume its own problem and put an end once and for all to the forced invisibility it seeks to impose on Republicans, victims of Francoism and National Socialism. This year 2015, Mr. Wert, should be the time to bury all the hypocrisy and bury all the manipulation manoeuvres, if not counter-intelligence, with which attempts have been made to avoid legal recognition and access to justice for the victims of the crimes of Francoism. Ten years ago - I repeat, ten years ago - this same Member, through an initiative of the Catalan Republicans, gave rise to a debate in this Congress, in which it was claimed that the Spanish State should clarify its responsibilities towards the deportees, and I will read to you, Mr Wert, what was approved, textually. It says: "The Congress of Deputies will address measures to establish adequate recognition and achieve the moral, legal and, where appropriate, economic rehabilitation of the victims". Since then, nothing has been done in favour of the victims and much has been done to hinder or prevent the bringing before the courts of the SS, murderers of Republicans, and I give you an example. The Public Prosecutor's Office of the National Court, following instructions from the State Attorney General, has opposed the advance of the only case that has existed in favour of the Republicans of the Nazi camps in the Spanish State. I refer to the SS Totenkopf case at the National Court that was opened in 2008. This obstacle will increase the annals of the ignominy of the State, which, on the other hand, would have to protect them, would have to protect the few victims present and, above all, the absent victims, which is the great difference that exists between the Spanish State and the other democracies that finally did all this. Look at what's happened so far. Felipe González, in 1995, refused to attend the liberation acts of the Mauthausen camp because he was waving the Republican flag. Zapatero, in 2005 - it has to be recognized - it was, but this visit - and I refer to all those who were present -, far from being part of the official protocol of the camp and the one used by the victims, was totally improvised and lacked respect for the survivors and relatives of the victims by trying to impose the current monarchy flag on those who have been reminding year after year of the values for which their Republican comrades died, and it has to be recognized - because, if not, it would lack the truth - that the Socialist Party apologizes. Then the mere formalities - I say mere formalities because Minister Margallo has announced that he would attend the events to be held on 9, 10 and 11 next May - and the scenic effect of them run the risk of becoming a real reproach without having previously asked for forgiveness as a State and having recognized as victims of Francoism, and after national socialism, the more than 10,000 citizens of the Spanish State who passed through the Nazi camps. These mere formalities must be the consequence of legal recognition and not an isolated act devoid of real value, because, if not, we would be faced with great frivolity. The thousands of deported Republicans - Mauthausen, Gusen, Dachau, Ravensbrück, Buchenwald -, of whom most were exterminated by different methods - exhausted by forced labour, gassed, hanged, shot, beaten - these thousands of Republicans were not victims by chance, I insist, were victims by their status as Republicans. After forty years I have asked you five questions quickly that will certainly form the motion that we are going to put to the vote and on which the rest of the groups will have to choose whether to vote in favour or against it, and whether you can answer me now, better, understanding that all this is somewhat improvised on your part. First, the request for forgiveness by the State. And don't tell us that it can't be because the Spanish democratic state can't take responsibility because it has nothing to do with the Franco state. From the point of view of international law, this argument is a legal aberration. The continuity of States is one thing and their regimes are another. Does today's Germany have anything to do with National Socialist Germany? Does current France have anything to do with Vichy's France? On the other hand, Germany and France have asked for forgiveness. Well, it is up to the head of the present State, Philip VI, to apologize to the victims on behalf of the State. Two, legal recognition of the victim status of persons who were interned, murdered or survived and their relatives, and, as a result of the previous point, the development of all necessary measures to meet the moral and economic reparations to the victims. There's something I'm sure you're interested in. We cannot allow the new generations not to be aware of the great contributions of the Republicans who fought militarily to win World War II and bury fascism...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u178	Mr. Tardà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u179	... and neither can the new generations ignore the scope of the responsibilities of what the deportation of citizens of the Spanish state meant thanks to the policy of Mr Serrano Suñer, who agreed, as you know, with Mr Himmler - if you can tell this character - the stateless status of the Republicans.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u180	Mr. Tardà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u181	So, Minister, I look forward to your reply with great interest and I hope that in the coming days the parliamentary groups will begin to reflect on this and that we will be able to vote in favour of a motion on the 12th for the victims. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u182	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. Minister for Education, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tardà, it is not normal for you and I to agree on many things when we are faced in this Chamber, but today we are. We agree with the abomination, the horror, the condemnation without any kind of palliatives and the need for moral, symbolic, legal and political restitution of the victims of Nazi barbarism, and particularly those closest to us, who are the Spanish victims of the extermination camps. We agree that restitution is accurate, and not only the material and legal restitution, but also the emotional and symbolic restitution that implies - and I link it to the last point of its intervention - that the next generations, through the educational process, have full knowledge of this episode of historical horror that was Nazism and of what its consequences were. In that regard, I have to say that this Government, like other previous ones, has taken various kinds of initiatives and from this point of view it cannot - in any case, in my opinion, it is not fair to speak of a significant failure, and there is indeed continuity between the governments. The Mauthausen camp and the various subfields around it, particularly that of Gusen, were known from the first convoy that in August 1940 arrived there, where Spanish went, like the Spanish camp. In this field, moving stories of heroism, resistance and honour were written by many Spanish Republicans who, as his lordship has recalled, were in some cases deported by the authorities of the so-called Free France, of the Vichy regime, and in others or were arrested as prisoners of war because they were participating together with the French army in the defense of France, or were directly taken prisoner by the Gestapo and led to this camp, which was the first to receive the type III classification, that is, that of the harshest conditions and which the hierarchs of the Nazi regime considered irrecoverable. In that field, indeed, many Spaniards died. There is a general regulatory framework, as your lordship knows perfectly well, for the application to the deported, established by the Historical Memory Act, particularly the declarations of reparation and personal recognition contained in article 4 - up to now 1,655; during the period of this Government, 301-, and also, of course, a general recognition of the radically unjust condition of all convictions and sanctions produced for political or ideological reasons during the war and dictatorship. I agree with you, Mr Tardà, that it is particularly harsh and particularly worthy of condemnation that, in addition to the material suffering suffered by the Spanish deportees, they must suffer that kind of additional moral suffering which implies the loss of national identity when they were considered stateless. You have shown the symbol of the Friendship of Mauthausen that effectively reproduces the badge that pointed to the Spaniards as stateless. I have to tell you that from the point of view of both legal and moral reparation established by the law, the Ministry of Justice has an important task, not only in promoting such recognition and promoting the various activities that, also related to the deportees, arise from the law to which I have just referred, but also in maintaining a database of the deportees that contributes to a better knowledge of the situation. The ministry I am honoured to lead also has a leading role in this regard. I am absolutely convinced that his lordship is aware that it was in the framework of research promoted and subsidized by the then Ministry of Culture when precisely, in the weeks preceding the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of Mauthausen's liberation, it was discovered the imposture of Enric Marco, then president of the Friendship of Mauthausen, and it was the work of two historians, Benito Bermejo and Sandra Czecha, who allowed not only that discovery and what entails moral restoration of the victims of that camp, but they have continued to work with the support of the ministry I run - the last contract was signed in December 2014 - to update that database of the deported to the camps. Specifically, with the contract signed last December, the updating of these databases has made it possible to identify 120 new deportees about whom there was no news and more than 2,000 new data about the 8,707 Spaniards who were already known. [[The lady]] It also raises a number of petitions or petitions - I imagine they will be put into practice in the subsequent motion for an inquiry that will be presented in the near future in this House - in order to make that recognition more complete. It will obviously depend on your specific approach - because, as you have acknowledged, it is very difficult to give an answer on behalf of the Government without knowing the details - but I would say that we agree with the spirit. To the extent that the mechanisms of the law allow for this triple recognition of victims - legal recognition, moral recognition and, to the extent that it is combined, economic recognition - will certainly have the support of the Government and the People's Group. With regard to the knowledge by generations of the horror of Nazism, knowledge of the holocaust and the phenomena associated with it is specifically included in the various curricula on a cross-cutting basis. You know that this government - specifically this minister has done so - has participated, in all the years in which the celebration has taken place, in the commemoration of the holocaust that has been organized successively by the Congress of Deputies and the Senate and maintains an attitude of permanent readiness and commitment, in its part, with which it corresponds more with the aspects of moral restitution of the victims. One of the first books about this period written by Germans is The German catastrophe, by Friedrich Meinecke, at the end of whose pages there is a judgment, a sort of general judgment on Nazism, which sometimes surprises because it seems to be a very limited condemnation of the horror that the regime meant. Meinecke says: This was not necessary. But, if it is seen in its context, it is pointed out that the consciousness of the civilized world in the face of that horror must begin by recognizing that such an act contrary to the basic principles of humanism, so contrary to the right to life, so contrary to the dignity of people, so cruel, so horrified, before anything else, was not necessary. I hope, Mr Tardà, that we will be able to find a common ground on this issue, because it also seems to me that in matters like this disagreement is not necessary. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u185	Minister, I am grateful that both the tone you have used and mine have been used today, because we were used to another tone between you and me, and this is good always. You speak of agreement. The only agreement that has been reached so far is that which occurred yesterday in the Constitutional Commission on the proposal of the Socialist Party, which hurts my soul: to give a decoration to the survivors, about 15 throughout the Spanish State, with which the garment to pay is tiny. The whole story is solved with a decoration and a tribute to the 15 survivors. I don't think this is the deal. The agreement is to do everything that other democracies have done, other democracies that had the misfortune that we had of suffering fascist or totalitarian pasts. All democracies, sooner or later, have metabolized it by thinking of future generations, strengthening democratic values. How did it get done? Following international parameters: truth, reparation and justice. Everyone's done the same thing. There is only one exception, which is the Spanish case, then do we agree? Perfect, but if there is no legal recognition, there are no victims. I believe that this is internationally agreed. You're as traveled as I am or maybe much more. The list of pain is infinite, because all the citizens interned were released, except those of the Spanish State, who continued to live in stateless conditions, welcoming other nationalities. Look, the components of Mauthausen's Friendship - you have made reference to them, some of them are here - were living underground in the association that grouped them. Look at the shame, how it should weigh us down. Those who returned made this brotherhood to recognize themselves and from 1962 to 1978 lived underground, those who returned, that is, the pain is immense. Then if we are able to redeem this pain and pass it on to the new generations, I believe that our democracy will be very strengthened. Instead, if we do it through the fake door, we have a problem, because we cannot metabolize the current violence and the future violence that unfortunately lurks if we are not able to metabolize past violence. Today the academy has shown it, we have documents from Mr Serrano Suñer, who even took out two Catalan citizens from Mauthausen for their personal relationship, intervened to get them out. The Spanish Administration was aware of what was happening. We have a number of postcards sent by Mauthausen inmates censored by the Spanish Government, that is, everyone knew what was happening. Today we are in 2015, we have all the tests by active and passive. Then I take the floor - I do not know if I should take it very much or little - but it cannot be that the Spanish Government, when it moves to Mauthausen on 9, 10 and 11 - will be there the top leaders of many democratic states, will go the few survivors, their families, people arriving from all over the world, the best of antifascism will be concentrated in Mauthausen in the next few days -, it cannot go there, either on the right or on the left, with empty hands. You can't go to Mauthausen saying: let's give them a medal and give them a tribute. This cannot be, apart from the political ideology of you, of mine, of the socialist colleagues or of the colleagues of other parliamentary groups. It's a great opportunity. It can't be wasted. So that you do what you can, please do what you can. The motion will be clarified 24 hours after Minister Margallo returns from Mauthausen. It would be good if we did not have to wait for the motion and the Government to announce that it will introduce a bill, because - I conclude, Madam President - it does not forget one thing, some baccalaureate, and it is that legal recognition can only be promoted through a law. Then what the Government should do is commit itself to introducing a bill for the legal recognition of victims, from which moral and, if necessary, economic reparations would hang, which was what was adopted here in 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tardà, first of all, ignored the presence of representatives of the Friendship of Mauthausen, whom I greet with all affection. I have before me - I don't know if at this distance a photo can be seen - some of the most significant photos that exist of liberation, I think I remember that on May 5, 1945, by the American forces of the Mauthausen camp. [[Show a picture]] In that field, a huge banner said: The Spanish antifascists greet the liberating forces. Probably out of ignorance on the part of the interns whether it was going to be the Russians or the Americans who finally freed the camp, it's in English and Russian. As I said before, huge stories of heroism have been written in this field of the Spaniards, which is important for generations to know, such as that of the famous Mauthausen staircase, with its one hundred and eighty-six steps, which had to climb the deportees loaded with heavy stones behind their backs and, at the end of it, the Spaniards said: one more victory. It was probably the group that maintained greater confidence, greater faith in the final victory over Nazism, the final victory of the allies. To the knowledge of this I have to say that the Ministry of Culture, with the sponsorship of the research of Benito Bermejo and Sandra Czecha, has contributed significantly with the publication in 2006, both in electronic version and on paper, of the Spanish memorial book deported to the Nazi camps, which was distributed to all the Spanish municipalities with a certain number of population, as well as all those subsequent initiatives of updating to which I have referred, that in the field of the ministry that I preside are, obviously, the most important together with those of the educational type. [[1940-1945]] But as far as Mr Tardà's request for legal recognition is concerned, in so far as such legal recognition is no longer determined by the application of the 2007 law, I am sure, and I am sure that this is the case with the discussions with the various officials and also with the People's Group, who will find the echo they need to find if they are necessary to bring that recognition to completion. I believe that the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation in the commemorations of 9, 10 and 11 May clearly symbolizes and marks the nature of this Government's commitment to that binding recognition and that binding reminder of such a tremendous and abominable episode of history. At the same time, I have to say that over the past almost forty years there have been many and progressive elements of recognition that governments of different political signs have been incorporating into the legal system. It is true that I have to acknowledge with you, that there are fewer and fewer direct victims, and that is why, perhaps, successive recognitions are coming later, but there is no doubt either that those involved in movements of support and solidarity with these victims, that the will of the Government - as I am sure from practically all the groups in this House - is that such recognition is most complete, effective and close in time. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u188	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON INTERPRETATION, DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 8/2013 OF 9 DECEMBER FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATIONAL QUALITY IS GOVERNMENT. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 172/000307]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u189	We moved on to the third inquiry. Urgent inquiry by the Basque Parliamentary Group into the interpretation, development and application of the Organic Law 8/2013 of 9 December for the improvement of the quality of education is being done by the Government. [[EAJ-PNV]] For your defence, Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u190	President, ladies and gentlemen, it already seemed to me that too long had passed without you setting the santabarbara on fire. After a brief and expected mutis by the forum in the, let's call it, tragicomedia that has represented during these more than three endless years at the head of the Ministry of Education, in the end, everything has remained in a mutis medium. It is obvious, knowing him, that he could not be deprived of closing the curtain, that he could not allow the show to end without setting fire to the gunpowder deposit to send the ship of consensus and, with it, the ship of education. It has done so only a few weeks ago in the submission of the draft draft Royal Decree establishing the general characteristics of the final assessment tests for primary education and regulating the final evaluations of compulsory secondary education and high school education. He has represented a great scene in the framework of the General Conference of Education held on 22 April and, in my opinion - I am sure he will discuss it, Minister - writing another black page in the logbook of the illegitimate and unconstitutional crossing of competition in educational matters, as in other areas, by his Government and by his ministry. Mr Minister, by pirating once again the forecasts contained in the Statute of Gernika, you and the Spanish Government have attributed themselves exclusively and exclusively to the fixing of the content of the subjects that education professionals must impart, when this is an issue which requires the participation of my Government, our governments, the autonomous governments and, of course, also the educational institutions. A sine qua non requirement, Minister. I'll ask you a few questions. Answer me, please. Do you think that you have a patent of course to impose a draft royal decree regulating the external evaluation tests of the student at the end of the ESO and the baccalaureate, so that the Basque Autonomous Community in our case - others too - is relegated to mere execution of the criteria laid down by the Spanish Government? Do you honestly believe that you have a patent of course to usurp and deny the competences in educational matters set out in the Statute of Gernika? I would also ask you to answer what you think legitimizes you to plunder our treasure, the treasure of the Basque educational heritage, which with effort and consensus we have built over the past thirty years us and other autonomous communities of the rest of the State and other nationalities. Minister, because they did not take into account even the reduced curricular development which they gave us, leaving the absolute majority, for their development through their own regulation. It seems to me to be an absolutely Jacobin approach. I'd like you to explain the following to me. If the only reference of competences, evaluable learning standards and criteria for assessing the achievement of the objectives of the different stages is that set out in annexes one and two of the respective royal decrees, where are the contents established or supplemented by the administrations of the autonomous communities? And where are those complemented by schools? I will tell you, Minister: they are sunk, submerged in the bottom of the sea of ashes in which, in my opinion, this peaceful reform has turned education into Spain. His approach to education and evaluation is in the antipodes of the Basque pedagogical educational approach and I believe that of the majority of the autonomous administrations, of the virtually entire educational community and of the social majority; this morning he has had the opportunity to answer a question posed by the socialist spokesman. In addition, we sincerely believe that it moves the ship away from what should be the core of the system: the school, the classroom. It incomprehensiblely takes him away from the autonomy of the centers and the faculty, which is the first reference that the student has from the system. Another question arises from the thread of this question. I would like you to tell me where the strategic lines of innovation and development set out in the European framework for 2020 will remain with regard to education, training and the educational challenges inherent in the context and environment of each autonomous community. I think we need a very important paradigm shift. It is necessary to turn and thread the bow of that ship that you are heading towards an approach of competence-based education. As I suppose you know well, what characterizes the approach of competence pedagogy is to transfer, articulate and combine all those learnings acquired in the solution of complex functional situations. The general exit profile defined for students, the purpose of basic education is achieved through the acquisition of basic skills. I understand that he knows that, among the basic competencies, some are defined as transversal or generic - necessary, in short, to solve problems or face different situations of life - and others as specific, typical of one or more disciplinary exits. I would also like you to answer how you intend to assess cross-cutting competences through your final test. I'd like you to tell me. How do you intend to evaluate, for example, the oral language or dialectic abilities of students? In my opinion, in no way, unless you are able to convince me otherwise. Analyzing annexes one and two of that draft royal decree powerfully draws attention to the fact that, at this point in this melodrama, which has become the entire deployment of the Lomce bill, they have designed tests with a maximum of 350 test-type questions, of multiple choice, with four alternatives and semi-constructed answers, which only allow a conceptual assessment of what has been learned and which, as we have predicted, aim to redirect teaching to encyclopedic learning. Minister, this is not what education in the 21st century should be. I'm sorry to have to tell you that the final assessments regulated by the Lomce and these royal decree projects are not intended for the benefit of the student, they are not. It is the student who will be harmed, especially ours, the Basque student, because, as you well know, it has higher performance ratios than the state average. It is not necessary to say that evaluations should help the student during the process of acquiring skills, which does not happen with the classic model of subjective evidence contained in his draft draft royal decree. In conclusion, what is clear is that its examination methodology, whether it's called a revalidation or evaluation tests, crashes, collisions frontally with the objective, with the design of a test that can measure the competence level of the student. And don't tell me that the level of competition would be established by the average obtained by the student in the exercises of the subjects related to each competition, because this is an anachronism, this is older than the Machin maracas. Minister, our model, the model of the Basque Group and of my Government, is another. We start from a double premise: evaluation is an instrument for measuring all competences, and when I say they are all, and moreover, inexorably, it must be closely linked to improvement, it must have a formative character linked to the development of competences; competences that, on the other hand, must be evaluated in real contexts, in situations that are offered daily and presented to the student. The priority should therefore not be to standardize and centralize to control the teaching, which I believe is yours, but to bring those competences closer to the educational centre and the classroom and thus contribute to the improvement of teaching through evaluations; it is good to measure, that has become clear and we share it. Frankly, I think they have lost their vanity, they have lost that desire to control, to have it all held by a flange and that nothing escapes, so they have opted for a unilateral approach, contrary to any pedagogical logic, in that obsession to grab the definition of contents. I also suppose, minister, that you will know better than I because you are in the day-to-day, that even PISA, your great referent theoretician, is putting forward new proposals for 2018. As an example, I will cite PISA's willingness to evaluate global competencies or, what is the same, those that we call transversal, such as entrepreneurship, curiosity, to analyze even the mood and empathy that the student has with his or her educational environment. There are a number of issues that are very interesting and that you are working on, as I told you, PISA. I have to make a mention of basic vocational training, Minister, and I ask you again: are you really aware that under the current regulations you can leave thousands of students who are not offered any help in obtaining a high school graduate unprotected and unprotected? That happens, that can happen. Another step back in something that at least in Euskadi was resolved. In short, an absolutely desolating panorama. I'm finishing up, Minister. Without any doubt we can conclude that this royal decree is a negation of the competences recognized and agreed with Euskadi. It must be made clear to me that, unlike you and the Government, we do not want to usurp the competences that are recognized to the State in terms of the management of education, of course not, but we do demand participation, Minister; a participation that has been denied to us throughout the whole process of gestation and processing of Lomce and its development regulations; a participation that is no more or less than the one emanating from the constitutional bloc, no more or less than that which belongs to us. It will also recognise us - I must say - that we have developed serious work, that we have been critical but constructive, that we have formulated proposals for technical content based on rigorous analysis of the model and we have tried to show that its proposal constitutes an insurmountable obstacle to bring competence education closer to the centre, to the classroom, to further improve. It's been useless. That is why, Minister, we have been and are against the Lomce and against this draft of real development decrees, in general of all and of this specifically also, made - as I said - unilaterally, without the real participation of the competent administrations and of the sector, without making any consensus with anything or anyone. And we are not going to allow either; nor the competitive invasion nor the destruction of the educational system. Minister, I think you have a new chance. We have always offered to cooperate. We hope that you will not continue with this dislate, that you will take the helm and change course, that you will take this last opportunity to mitigate the harm caused. In any case, if it is not you, Minister, if it is not your Government that moves, it will be the general elections that change the parliamentary scene that will allow us to put a stop to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member of the Commission, it is clear that your honourable Member is very naively motivated. I don't know if you are taking out the title of yacht skipper or simply the inspiration today comes with nautical references but as you use the same navigational aid instruments that have served you to prepare the inquiry, I assure you that it fits, because almost nothing of what you have said - probably something yes - has anything to do with the draft royal decree that refers to the assessments. In particular, Your Honor, you have referred to a number of aspects which cannot be regarded as occurring in the sense to which your Lordship has referred, but they say quite the opposite. I have read very carefully and participated in the drafting of these decrees which, as you can imagine, have a high technical content, as will also have a high technical content the subsequent norms of development and application which, of course, are not much less the work of a single person, since they have participated multiple teachers, teachers, pedagogues and specialists. In the normative content of what is the draft decree, there are aspects that say literally the same as your lordship has said. For example, on the subject of competency assessment, I'm going to read you what it says, because it probably didn't get there in the reading or at some point you missed a sheet or something like that. Final assessment of primary education, which is, by the way, an evaluation that is basically a competent resident in the Autonomous Communities. Purpose: to verify the degree of acquisition of competence in language communication, mathematical competence and basic skills in science and technology, as well as the achievement of the objectives of the stage. Objectives: to diagnose learning difficulties, to guide and inform students about the progress of the teaching-learning process and to facilitate the transition between stages, in this primary case and ESO. Final evaluation of compulsory secondary education. Purpose: to verify the achievement of the objectives of the stage and the degree of acquisition of competences in all general matters, with the exception of the exceptions with respect to the options; in two options of option of 4o; in a specific subject which cannot be either physical education or religion or ethical values; and in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community, in the field of co-official language and literature. Evaluated competences, competence in linguistic communication, mathematical competence, basic competences in science and technology, social and civic competences, competence of sense and initiative and entrepreneurial spirit and competence of conscience and cultural expressions. In other words, the key competences for lifelong learning specified in the Europe 2020 objectives, which constitute the doctrine of acquiring competences of the European Union. He then says that how it is possible that with the structure, with the format of tests proposed, it can be measured. Mrs. Robles, read it all. That and high school. The first set of tests will assess the evaluable skills and learning standards associated with the four general stem materials and will consist of a maximum of 200 questions in multiple choice format with four alternatives and semi-constructed answers. [[Mrs Sánchez Robles makes negative gestures]] Let me finish. The full paragraphs must be read; it is very important, because it is learned. In addition, tests of open-ended written expression such as essay, literary commentary, journalistic, historical, scientific activity, and, attention, oral tests such as oratory, oral defense of a topic, pose a critical position and debate. That is, just what you say is not contemplated. Let's move on to the competition issue, which is very important. I recognize and have recognized from the outset that this law has begun to be discussed in this House that we have made an approach, a different interpretation, to which it had so far prevailed, which was an interpretation that was in a way based on our misguided, capricious judgment in any case. In terms of the content between the competence of the central administration and the competence of the autonomous administration, I believe that we have come to a much clearer outline and that in the field of evaluations there is a very clear logical development. Point number one why do evaluations have to respond to a certain extent to a homogeneous pattern? Because it is precisely that we have comparable elements, elements that can be applied to the whole educational system, of what gives of itself an external test, a standardized test and a test that from that point of view contains those elements of homogeneity. What is the anchor that allows the various levels of competence to be established in the General Administration of the State and in the educational administrations, i.e. in the autonomous communities? There are two elements that allow them to be anchored in the General Administration of the State; one is the exclusive competence of the general management of the educational system, which derives not only from rule 30(a) of 149.1 but directly from article 27 of the Constitution, and the other is very clear, which is the monopoly that the State has as exclusive competence for the issue and award of titles. Therefore, when an evaluation of the end of the stage - the evaluation of the end of the primary - is not linked to obtaining a degree but simply - it does not mean only, because it is a very important objective - it is a question of detecting difficulties of learning, logically the competence of the State is a very limited competence: the establishment of the general characteristics of the test. I have to tell you that the Autonomous Communities, including the one that has sent your Lordship to this House, have been very positive in the design of the third grade evaluation tests, which are the only ones to be applied this year. I believe that a job has been achieved, with the cooperation - when they wanted to lend it - of the high-quality Autonomous Communities. When we move to end-of-stage evaluations linked to obtaining official qualifications, the competence of the State is not only in the case of primary education the definition of general characteristics but also includes evaluation criteria and evaluable learning standards, but that does not mean that a role is not reserved for educational administrations; it does not even mean that that role is limited to the administration of evidence. Yesterday, in the Senate, her colleague, Senator Martínez, was asking me about the decree on this issue and I really could not - I have to reiterate it now before her lordship - if I did not express the perplexity that we were faced that we had not included in the decree those aspects that are the competence of the autonomous communities. Of course not, because this development legislation, this regulatory development of the part of the autonomous communities, must be carried out by the said autonomous communities. He tells me there's been no dialogue. Mrs Robles, how is dialogue going to take place if the draft decree is taken to the sectoral conference and before we start discussing there are five communities that say they do not want to discuss it? Obviously, the lack of dialogue will not be for those who have sat at the table but for those who have risen. I believe that assessments, a completely central theme in the scheme of the law, a topic of radical importance for the improvement of our educational system, is desirable that it be a peaceful issue politically and we will not bargain for any effort in it, but what we cannot do is one hundred percent of the effort, especially if that one hundred percent of the effort, as those communities called for at the sectoral conference, is to withdraw it. But how are we going to withdraw something that doesn't exist? How are we going to withdraw something at the moment when we are starting to discuss it? As he explained to his partner yesterday, this draft decree still has to pass through many filters; it has to pass through internal Government filters, but it also has to pass through the State School Council and the State Council. In short, there is a long time, among other things because these evaluations will not start to apply until the 2016-2017 course and will not start to have academic effects - because before you have to do a lot of calibration - until the 2017-2018 course. Basic work has been done on the characteristics of the tests, on the philosophy and on how to incorporate the competitive approach that seems to me to be of high technical quality and, with the best of intentions, I invite all of you - your group of course, but also the other groups in the House - to continue to collaborate positively to provide elements that can improve this development. What is not possible is that before the normative development, in this case of the assessments, it is established as a condition to enter into the dialogue that the decree is withdrawn, because that is not dialogue, it is an imposition or is, in any case, the desire to boycott an element, as I say, essential in the development of the law. I therefore reiterate my invitation to dialogue on this issue and on any other matter of an educational nature. He knows perfectly well that the ministry has always been open to speaking not only with the Education Administration, with the Education Council of the Basque Country, but also with its parliamentary group. I insist, I reiterate that invitation, and I hope you will accept it. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u193	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u194	Minister, I am inspired by the Gulf of Biscay and the Ría del Nervión or the Ibaizábal, you should know, and hence my bond with the sea, not with the sea. In any case, it is difficult for us to get stuck in our speech. You know why? Because it is the speech of my Government, it is the speech of some governments that have led a model of success like that of Euskadi. So you're frankly wrong. I don't want to say that about the English lady again, but I think the readings we're doing are different. In any case, it says that what I have said literally reproduces what appears in the draft royal decree that you have proposed. It's not true, Minister, it's not true. Its draft is a non-transparent draft, which reserves too much for future developments, a two-sheet draft with two annexes. I didn't tell you not to evaluate, I asked you how you intend to evaluate. Don't manipulate, don't twitch. I said: How do you plan to evaluate dialectic ability, oral expression? You can't tell me you're taking a test, can you? I say no, don't I? We have to be a little serious about this. I understand that you have a lot more information and a lot more training, but it's very ugly to abuse and you daily... [[Mr. Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, Wert Ortega: Me?]] Yes, dialectically you grow up and try to abuse from the knowledge that all the technical services you have at your disposal in your department give you. But, forgive me, you are not thought to be intellectually superior to me or to any of the Members who sit in this House, because in many cases you can see nuances of false intelligence and that is not good for reaching agreement and consensus. It is better to avoid colliding than confronting, which is exactly what I have seen every time I have wanted to make an initiative in the field of education. You know the Basque ball, we're going to Euskadi again. Every time we put a proposal to him, the proposal bounces off the frontis, either let's make it wide or pull behind the court. And that cannot be, Minister, it is not a nice way of doing politics and I also think it is a bad example, from an educational point of view, of exercising governance. He betrayed the subconscious. Yeah, yeah. I have not mentioned the subject of titles, but it is obvious that this is the connection you have to deprive the autonomous communities of their abilities and competences in the exercise of their powers in the field of education. This very clear, you wanted to do everything, control everything and leave us the crumbs. That's the pattern. It is true that there has to be a logical development and a homogeneous pattern, but for you it is only logical and homogeneous yours, the one you have built on the basis of the majority of the People's Group - it is so!-, without entrusting yourself to either God or the devil and closing the door to dialogue. Obviously, as Mr Barberà said, he has collaborated in the design of primary assessments, diagnostic evaluations, but it is that we already did them, see if we had them designed. They were made both in Catalonia and in Euskadi and that is why it has been relatively easy and we have helped them. How can we not help them if we have the job done! With reference to the departure of the five autonomous communities from the conference the other day, Minister, you cannot send a draft five days earlier and pretend to close the issue and file it at the conference taking advantage of the fact that you have the absolute majority of the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party. That's what I've been moved to. I was not there with the candil, minister - it is usually convenient to be present - but that is what has been moved to me. That can't be. Besides, I believe them. Do you know why I believe them? Because it has been the general dynamic that you, your Government and the People's Group have maintained throughout the process of this entire bill. This is so, Minister. Hands that you don't give - that my nanny said -, what do you expect? If you've always had the door locked! In all this process, I have once been with you - if it is a lie, it denies me - when the processing procedure began, in a round that you summoned and to which you called all the political groups. From there not a call, not yours, that you are the minister, but neither of your secretariat of state nor of any of your collaborators. Tell me where the door has been opened because I haven't found it. Every time I have come to this stage with a proposal I have offered you the cooperation of the Basque Group - every and every time we have defended a motion, a GNP or we have intervened in those of other parliamentary groups - and you have done a mutis for the forum until you have been interested in appearing again on the scene with the mutis medium and with these royal decrees, which do little to make this process end as it should end. Mr Minister, I repeat again that the work of this group has been serious and rigorous, based on the technical work of very competent people to whom you have questioned, because if I with my speech stand still, it will be because those who have advised me have done it wrong. You're wrong, Minister. You have to start using active listening. That you don't listen! He always comes to talk about his book and leaves, and that can't be. I repeat our offer, I repeat that we are very willing to work seriously, as we have done so far, avoiding any kind of demagogy, but, of course, from a situation of bilaterality and fair play, not from the imposition and from a style of governance that I personally do not believe; in fact, it is not that it does not convince me, it is that it has not convinced the rest of the parliamentary groups that we make up the opposition, neither the educational community nor the civil society in general, with which, Minister, it has a problem: it has not convinced.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u195	Mrs. Sánchez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u196	Moreover, if your project is so good, you have a political market problem, obviously, because you should have brought it in and convinced it and you haven't. I'm not going to extend anymore, because I'm getting attention. I hope my vehemence didn't sound bad to you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u198	Mrs Sánchez Robles, your vehemence does not seem bad or good to me; we each have our style and yours is vehemently. What did seem wrong to me - I say it frankly - is that I was flattered, I don't know on what basis, the approach of my positions from a supposed intellectual superiority. I do not think there has been anything in my words that has evoked such arrogance. I'm not going to put myself as President Obama at the correspondents' dinner, but I assure you that I don't think that my criteria, being mine, are better than anyone's. What I do like is that we discuss concrete things, about the reality, in this case, of the draft decree and not about what is said or someone says it stands in that draft decree. That also applies to what he has expressed about the will for dialogue. The sectoral conference meets to hear this draft decree after a session of the general conference. It is not that a text is given five days in advance, a text is closed, without it being possible to make modifications or suggestions of any kind. It's never been that style of ours. Any policy draft, usually a decree, has been brought to the sectoral conference, and what has often happened has been that some or several autonomous communities have stated that they would like to have a longer time frame and a working group has been set up. Exactly the same could have been done on this occasion, but it is very difficult if five communities go with a written paper saying: You have to withdraw the decree. You will understand that on these grounds it is extraordinarily difficult to try to reach an agreement. I recognize that the education system in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has many positive elements and some aspects of performance - one in particular, the reduction of early education abandonment - which compare very favourably with those of other communities in a less advantageous situation. What I do not agree with is that it is not likely to improve with the application of a law, whose implementation, in the case of communities with better educational performance, already leans on their own strengths, i.e. comes to reinforce them, not contradict them. This applies to the architecture of the education system, but also to the other elements that make sense to it and that have just closed the management of the system, including that of evaluations. I insist, it is in no way a question of invading the competition space of the autonomous communities. There has simply been a reordering of the competition principles. In addition, I have to say that in the case of evaluations, there is clear support for the constitutional doctrine, because there were remedies before the Constitutional Court for the assessments that it contemplated - although it did not come into force, because its timetable for implementation was suspended by the Socialist Government in 2004 - the Organic Law on Educational Quality, precisely as regards the capacity of the State to determine them, and there are two judgements of the year 2012 that clearly state that the competence to establish such evaluations of national scope is well founded. It has not been a failed act nor has the subconscious betrayed me; it has been fully aware of the mention of the exclusive competence of the State to grant, issue and issue the titles, because that is the anchor that has competence in the assessments. So failed act and subconscious betrayal, nothing at all. He's been very conscious. However, I invite you, while respecting each other's respective areas of competence, to work together, because there is room for collaboration in this area of evaluations. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u199	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u200	We then proceeded to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals that could not be heard at yesterday's sitting on Tuesday. I would remind you that the vote will take place at tomorrow's sitting. We move on to the motion following urgent questioning by the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, on measures to revoke the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 13 March 2015, which denies the extradition requested by the Argentine authorities of persons accused of serious crimes committed during the Franco dictatorship. Mr Nuet has the floor for the initiative's group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u201	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, almost a week ago an entire Minister of Justice of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain justified in his words here, in this Chamber, the death sentences proclaimed at the end of the Franco dictatorship. The minister said that we cannot judge yesterday's crimes with today's eyes. Well, the minister spoke not of crimes, but of facts; it is we who speak of crimes. On that, ladies and gentlemen, impunity is based. Other peoples have already suffered: Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil or Guatemala. Impunity is based on believing that torture, forced disappearance and murder after the years will be forgotten or rather thinking that the names and bodies of the tortured, disappeared and murdered will be forgotten. Well, no. The reality is that a State cannot and should not protect persons suspected or accused of having committed international crimes. Instead, they are required to exercise their jurisdiction over any person suspected of a crime under international law in a territory under their jurisdiction if it does not comply, as is the case here today, with an extradition request made by the judicial authorities of another country. Obviously, we are faced with a reality, because Spain has signed many international treaties and conventions, many of which, when signed and ratified by our country, are incorporated into its domestic legal order in accordance with article 96 of the Spanish Constitution, which unequivocally establishes this obligation. For example, I would like to mention the Convention against Genocide, the Geneva Conventions, the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment and the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. That is why we are convinced that the agreement adopted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2015 leaves the victims of Francoism and their families in deep dismay, denying their right to justice and truth. And the arguments offered to deny extradition requests are baseless and seem to ignore and contradict international human rights standards and norms. The Spanish State and the Government of Spain must be reminded of their obligation to extradite or prosecute those responsible for those crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we do not get truth, justice and reparation, we will continue to vindicate them. Today we claim them, but do not think that when we have passed it will return the forgetfulness. Our children will do so and our children's children will do so until we find that truth, justice and reparation. Do us a favor for our history, our coexistence and true reconciliation in our country. Let us put the executioners before the judges, just as Germany has done, and let it be the judges who have the last word. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, I have the floor, Mr Sánchez Amor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Nuet. On an issue which has legal profiles such as the one raised by the motion, I would like to start with an initial statement, and that is that I share with Mr Nuet, from a moral point of view, the substance of the matter. However, without losing sight of the moral background, what brings us here today is a question of legal interpretation. There are three laws that are alleged in your motion. One of these is an Argentine law, the Law on International Legal Cooperation; it is a law of the Argentine legal system and is therefore not applicable in the State. That leaves us in the field of play with the Spanish-Argentine Bilateral Extradition Treaty and the Spanish Passive Extradition Law, which are the ones to be put in trial to determine it. We must play with the principles of these laws, with the principle of double criminality and with the possible termination of criminal proceedings. Mr Nuet, it has not been this Parliament, but the Spanish courts have decided that the statute of limitations applies and that the Amnesty Act of 1977 is applicable; then I will return to the Amnesty Act. In other words, the Spanish judicial mechanisms, both the National Court and the Supreme Court, have examined the issue and have concluded that this interpretation excludes in principle the requested extradition. In addition, an argument that you used in the interpellation and that you use today, which is the obligation of the signatory States to those international agreements and when that obligation begins, is analysed, and it is concluded that the obligation of the State cannot achieve retroactively acts committed before the ratification of the international treaties to which you referred. Thus, article 9 of the bilateral treaty, which denies extradition, must be applied when one of the parties, by whatever system, has ceased to have criminal responsibility. Furthermore, the treaty itself and the Passive Extradition Act authorize the State not to extradite - or, of course, to detain, as a pre-extradition step - a national if its own jurisdiction has not been used. There is a preference for own jurisdiction as a principle of the natural judge habitual in all legal systems. Moreover, if the Spanish courts changed their interpretation of the application or not of the Amnesty Act, it would still play the role of preference for national jurisdiction and that would not induce automatic extradition, but rather the opening of the necessary procedures within the Spanish judicial system. I tell you that this is the legal approach examined by the courts and that prevents extradition. Of course, I want to go much further and make political considerations with you. Like you, we all have a bitter feeling for this result, also derived from the fact that we have put too much hope only on the criminal track, and we must try other ways to get that truth, that justice and that reparation to which you referred. First, international criminal justice operates when the State has renounced the exercise of its sovereignty and the conduct of proceedings. It is therefore a formula to avoid impunity for inaction by the State, but in the Spanish State there are many judgments on the subject, of the National Court, of the Supreme Court and - if I am not mistaken - of more than thirty Spanish courts of first instance, which have unanimously declared a jurisprudence similar to that of the Supreme Court. That has been frustrating for the victims, because there was a hope that that universal jurisdiction could open it, but universal jurisdiction is not a remedy for when, when there is a sentence, you are not right in your national system, it is a remedy for when there is no legal action of your own. That is not bad, Mr Nuet, because it is a manifestation of the rule of law, something that is far from the victims. On such a delicate subject, where there are ideological positions so complex, so ideologically confronted, there is a certain patriotism of the procedures - guarantees have been extended, remedies have been made, judicial decisions have been reasoned - and there is also a certain tranquility that we are not acting as the executioners of our victims acted. In this regard, I wish to emphatically proclaim, on behalf of my group, the moral superiority of the victims over the executioners. Many socialists, such as Severiano Ruiz, my father's teacher, or Lorca, or any of those who are buried in a ditch and have no grandson who is looking for them, rise to an ethical peak far above the moral basofia of Francoism, far above the radical rot of that dictatorial system. The victims and those who defend their rights are in another moral universe and, therefore, by keeping their memory we are in the antepods of what their executioners did. We have built a democracy with rights also for the executioners, because we are different from the executioners, because our moral requirement is different from that of those executioners. Those executioners have had legal guarantees and have rights to protect, because we, the heirs of the victims, have given them them, because we are ethically different from them and we have to abide by the rules that we have given ourselves for all. That moral superiority that I am talking about has given rise to many episodes in our political history and in the Transition, but I want to make one thing clear, because sometimes in victim associations an analogy is established that is not true. The Amnesty Law was not a final point law, it was not a law of the executioners for the executioners, that is a mistification of how the Transition was, it is part of that revisionism that went by idealizing the Transition and now passes by demonizing it. What needs to be done is to study it. Amnesty was a constant demand of the anti-Francoist left and it was many communist, socialist and nationalist militants who pressed for amnesty. What was shouted in the left-wing demonstrations was freedom, amnesty and autonomy. Thus was obtained the partial amnesty of 1976; thus were obtained that those of the Burgos process came out; thus were obtained interviews in which Felipe González was, in which Antón Cañellas was, in which Joaquín Satrustegui was, asking Suárez to continue applying the amnesty. In the terrible demonstrations by the Amnesty of Revenue and the Basque Country, in May, leftist activists died asking for it. To turn that success of the anti-Francoist left into a kind of surrender to the executioners is to have understood nothing. People's Alliance abstained from the Amnesty Act and now someone is defending that the Amnesty Act was made to protect Francoist ministers who sat in AP. It doesn't make any sense. Benegas defended it here, Camacho defended it, Arzalluz defended it, people who in their speeches made it very clear that it was truly a blur and a new account and that we had to start again. This was the first step in a recognition of the victims - civil officials, military officials - a scale that began by establishing compensation and which reached the Historical Memory Act, which is logically the one that we socialists defend. The problem is that the criminal route is sometimes not the proper procedure for establishing historical truths and reparations such as those you are talking about, but if there is no criminal route - and I want to highlight this - the representatives of the victims must think that their claim is not exhausted by the criminal route and the Government must understand that their obligation to the victims is not exhausted because a criminal sentence has not given them the reason.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u204	Mr. Sanchez Amor, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u205	I'm done, Madam President. What I want to say is that we have to explore those other avenues that open up the Historical Memory Act, as the Supreme Court said. All measures of the Historical Memory Act are directed towards such reparation. Reparation does not always have to be through criminal proceedings. Let's put in place what that law established. What's the matter with you and me, Mr. Nuet? That there has been a de facto repeal of the Historical Memory Act, due to financial asphyxiation induced by the majority group, and therefore we have blinded, on the one hand, that political path and, on the other, the judicial path, which results in radicalization and frustration of the victims I share with you. What needs to be done is to re-enact the Historical Memory Act, because surely that radicalization and the fact that some victims in Spain...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u206	Mr. Sánchez Amor, you know you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u207	I'm done. That radicalization and the fact that some victims in Spain are invited to draft the Penal Code and others are wandering around the world to see if any court offers them a guarantee for their rights is what we cannot allow. The solution, therefore, is to re-enact a law of historical memory that can cause such reparation that the criminal track has not achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u208	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez Amor. The Joint Group, Mrs Pérez, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Nuet, regardless of the substance of your initiative, with which we agree and already announce our vote in favour, I would like to show you publicly our displeasure at the way you have presented it. [[The Lord]] And you know perfectly well what I'm talking about. We have consistently criticized Amnesty Law 46/1977 in this House many times. We have even submitted legislative proposals for amendment, because that law has served as an alibi for the non-persecution of crimes and fundamental rights violations protected by the Franco regime and has equated victims and executioners. Even that interpretation had been applied in the margins of the evolution of international norms enacted in the protection of human rights and relating to universal jurisdiction applicable to crimes against humanity. In other words, the application of the Amnesty Act has been applied to acts that may be considered crimes against humanity committed during and by the Franco dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen, the justice, memory and reparation of the victims caused by the existence of more than 100,000 missing in the Spanish State during the military coup d'état and subsequent Franco dictatorship requires that the criminal acts that caused their disappearance do not go unpunished, contrary to international law, and violating the most elementary democratic principles and defence of human rights. And they also demand that such impunity should not be granted under a legal shield in the Spanish State intended precisely to protect those who had fought to overthrow an illegitimate dictatorial regime and that, however, it has been used to protect those who from that regime, in a totalitarian way, committed serious crimes that violated the human dignity of thousands of people. The Spanish Government is clearly exercising a veto on the investigation and trial of the repression exercised by the Franco regime that is pushing other countries, in particular Argentina, which has had the support of victims and relatives to the lawsuit filed by that country and which you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, persist, almost forty years later, in preventing by all means that it prospers. In this regard, the Government's latest actions, including the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 13 March, deny the request for extradition made by the Argentine judicial authorities of 20 persons accused of crimes against humanity committed in the Franco regime. Ladies and gentlemen, the aspiration to obtain justice in cases of crimes that violate human dignity is permanent and cannot be repressed by laws that are independent of the most basic principles of justice and equity, or by subterfuges or agreements that seek to conceal the truth and avoid subjecting it to an objective, impartial investigation and that end in a fair trial. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has been trying for forty years to keep abducting and taking away from public opinion and general knowledge the deplorable events that have taken place in Francoism and still - I am finishing, Mr President - today, in addition to impunity, they want to impose silence and oblivion on four decades of death and repression. We, ladies and gentlemen, are right on the contrary, for the unconditional defence of international human rights law and for putting an end, definitively, to the absolute contempt of the Government for the rights of the victims. That is why we will vote in favour of this motion by the Plural Left. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Mr Errekondo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u211	Let us also go ahead with our rejection of the way in which the Plural Left has brought this initiative to the plenary because we understand that the will of the natural impulses, such as Ceaqua, to carry it out jointly among the parties is being skipped. It is our aim to highlight the demagogy and lack of scruples of the People's Party on this issue. That is why we bring here the words that Mr Barreda said last week on behalf of the People's Party when he referred to the end of the Basque political conflict and said that he defends an end with justice in the face of the claims of impunity, an end with memory in the face of oblivion and an end with truth so that the historical facts suffered do not dilute in equidistant accounts. The issue is that the Government should also defend the same in the face of the hundreds of thousands of crimes committed by Francoism, crimes against humanity not only because they have been described by Argentine justice, but also because it is evidenced by the more than 3,500 shipwrecks and shipwrecks that were killed and thrown into the gutters because they were simply suspected of being red in Navarre, where there was not even a battle front. Therefore, you do just the opposite of what the lords of the People's Party preach, impunity for criminals, relying on the Amnesty Act of 1977, rather than doing justice to the victims and their families. You apply oblivion instead of memory and have for forty years prevented the rescue of the acribilated bodies that still flood by hundreds the coves and whose families have yet to put fear into the body. His account is the Francoist account as the only truth: the truth of those who won the war, that of the winners, that of those criminal franchisors of that lineage of which you, the People's Party, are their heirs. Therefore, the truth of those who suffered the genocide is that you have not introduced into the school curriculum but that has been told from mouth to mouth and sung with passion and feeling. That's why we say the truth about Wonders Lamberto, a 14-year-old girl, raped, murdered and thrown at the dogs after forcing her to witness her father's execution in Larraga, Navarre. The truth of the Florentine of Larraga - so they called it -, we know it thanks to the fact that some have overcome fear, and that is why Fermín Valencia can sing us today its truth: Wonders, Wonders, Florentine of Larraga/ death was not able/ to bury your morning/ nor will he be able to paint the watercolor of your soul/ nor will he be able to fill the immensity of your soul with oblivion/ immensity. We support the request made by the Argentine justice system, as well as that of the UN Special Rapporteurs on Human Rights that Spain should extradite or prosecute those responsible for serious human rights violations. Thus, Antonio Carro Martine; Licinio de la Fuente; Antonio Barrera de Irimo; José Quintana Saracibar; José María Sánchez-Ventura Pascual; Alfonso Osorio García; Jesús Quintana Saracibar; Carlos Rey González; José Utrera Molina; Fernando Suárez González; Rodolfo Martín Vill; Jesús Cejas Mohedano; Antonio Troncoso de Castro; Jesús González Reglero; Ricardo Algar Barrón; Félix Criado Sanz; Pascual Honorado de la Fuente; Jesús Martínez Torres; Benjamín Solsona Cortés; Atilano del Valle Oter and Abelardo García Balaguer, accused of crimes against humanity. That is why we say that they must be either tried or extradited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u212	Thank you very much, Mr Errekondo. Mr Esteban has the floor for the Basque PNV Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. I now move on to my group's vote: we will vote in favour. Legal issues have been discussed, and I am not going to say that they are not important, much less important, but here we are, above all, on a political issue. Mr. Sánchez Amor was right when he said that the Amnesty Act was an achievement taken from power and that it was the democratic sectors of the country that promoted its adoption. But it is no less true that an inappropriate use has been made of this law, even by the Spanish courts, to protect those people who had responsibilities in the dictatorship - and we are not only talking about the war, because here the complaint refers above all to the Franco dictatorship - and they committed a series of crimes that have then been erased. It is said that there is a need for a condition, that the State has renounced the issue, and that is not exactly the case, although the sentences have unfortunately come to say that they cannot carry it forward, that there is no reason, etc. In the end, what has actually happened in this country is that there has been a renunciation of dealing with these issues in the courts, because the only cases that are open are very specific, very specific cases covered by the Historical Memory Act, but that do not review criminal matters of specific perpetrators of murders, in many collective cases, as mentioned here. He has resigned out of fear, out of fear. It has not been promoted by any Government, either from the right or from the left, for whatever reasons, and judges have tried to move away when they have been able. With regard to preferential jurisdiction and double criminality, I believe that the State has resigned. And if the state has resigned and there is no double incrimination, why don't we attend to the request of the Argentinean justice? A remarkable effort has been made by the current Government to put an end to universal jurisdiction, but the rest of the groups have argued that it has been one of the biggest mistakes of this legislature, which is another reason to support the proposal that is being made to us. The Socialist Group's amendment has led me to a series of reflections to look at the People's Group's bench and tell them that the list of actions requested by the Socialist Group's amendment shows that the Historical Memory Act is not being implemented. And it is a law that is part of the legal system and that has been passed by this House. The victim assistance offices are not functioning, there is no budget provision or action is being taken to, for example, exhumation of graves. Although I also have to say that the responsibility for exhumation lies not only with the State, but also with the autonomous communities and municipalities, and administrations of different colors have also looked elsewhere to face responsibilities in terms of pushing certain files, putting enough money to repair that memory or removing shields, badges, plates, etc. The difficulties faced by researchers - and not just any citizen of this country - in accessing certain documents in the Spanish archives still remain a disgrace, when the amendments included in the Historical Memory Act sought precisely to remove any obstacles to this access. By the way, in the amendment the socialists are braver than in the Historical Memory Law, wanting to get Franco out of the Fallen Valley; it seems very good to me but it could also have been done in the law - now from the opposition things are easier -. The request that this be left here and that the prosecutor's office be interested in the study of the facts contained in the ruling of the Argentine court, so that the remaining criminal responsibilities that may arise may be determined by the Spanish courts, is to make - and they know it - a toast to the sun. They will not enter; they have already said clearly, plainly and plainly that they will not enter, and a perverse interpretation of the Amnesty Law has been made. In this field little or no confidence in Spanish justice, in the defense of universal jurisdiction. I shall conclude, Mr President. Spain has renounced entry into these cases, initiated investigations and cleared up the relevant responsibilities. Our vote will therefore be in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the sake of Progress Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. Our group, unlike the previous ones, is going to abstain in this motion, and is going to abstain instead of voting in favour or against for quite simple reasons to understand. We are not going to vote against it because our group thinks that Francoism was a criminal dictatorship, that there are crimes pending investigation and that there may still be those who should respond by decisions of Franco's and Franco's governments; that is true. But we are not going to vote in favour because it seems to us to be a motion full of double morality and in the field of human rights, in the case of crimes against humanity, there should be no double morality, nor should there be cheating accounts. What do I mean? For example, in his speeches, Mr Nuet, when a motion on support for the opposition in Venezuela was presented here, he referred to Venezuelan political prisoners, political prisoners who are in military prisons without any charge, in the following terms: Do not ask for these criminals to be released. You called criminals political prisoners like Leopoldo López, like Antonio Ledesma, who are elected public officials or opposition leaders who have been imprisoned by a government that dangerously spills into a dictatorship. However, it does consider it very normal, and in addition to basic justice, that a series of former Francoist ministers be extradited to be tried by an Argentine court. Exactly the same thing happens with another matter that fills us with stupefaction. You have consistently opposed, not only you, some of the groups that have also intervened, to any further investigation into crimes against humanity committed by ETA. There are three hundred ETA attacks that have not yet been clarified, it is not even known who the perpetrators were. You have opposed, and also in a very harsh tone, any proposal that is made in this regard because it seems to you that of ETA absolutely nothing has to be investigated, and that there are so many more victims and many of them, thousands of people, alive. In your speech, Mr Nuet, you said: Peace, rationality, dialogue and political normalization have finally opened up and it must be said that both the abertzale left and the victims of all violence today are part of the solution in Euskadi and not of the problem. Do you want to explain to me, one day with great interest that explanation if it comes, why they have to be kept open, contrary to the Amnesty Act of 1977, cases against former members of the Franco administration and, however, absolutely nothing must be done against attacks and crimes against humanity that end, as he says, of committing and whose perpetrators walk quietly on the street without any kind of regret? Let's see when you explain it to me. The only thing I understand is that it follows from this that you believe that there are still human rights of the left and right, that there are victims of the right and left, and that the victims of the left have moral superiority, and we must defend them to the extreme, and those of the right, indeed not. This isn't like that. Human rights are neither right-wing nor left-wing, and the legislation dealing with human rights cannot be the subject of sectarian and partisan use, as we believe your group is constantly doing in this area. The Congress of Deputies is not a court and we should have confidence, no matter how little we remain - at least to the groups that like mine do not participate in the distribution of the judiciary, yours - in the independence of the judiciary; that is, if there is a judicial decision against that request for extradition, some case should be made to you. Furthermore, what you are asking for, and not the first time, is already the third or fourth time, implies de facto the repeal of the Amnesty Act of 1977, and that Amnesty Act not only benefited the Francoists, it also benefited members of ETA, FRAP, Grapo and other groups, anarchists and others, who had committed terrorist attacks. However, no one - nor of course my group - wants to reopen any of these cases because we agree that the Amnesty Act of 1977, which was not a final point law, was the basis of the Constitutional Pact that defeated Francoism. As you seem to think that this defeat is not enough, and that the Civil War must be won by seventy-five years of delay, you are constantly bringing us this reinterpretation and rewriting of historical data which, in our view - we have said many times - are not within the competence of Parliament. History has to be done, of course, by the people who have experienced it - the witnesses with their testimonies and the historians - and not by the Congress of Deputies. If we were to argue why the cases against the members of the Franco Governments should be kept open, it should be applied, also on the basis of the theory of universal jurisdiction, to entire Governments of many years ago from countries such as Cuba, Korea or China, or to many others in eastern Europe, where many crimes were also committed. The other day we had the opportunity to discuss an interesting PNL on Mauthausen of the Socialist Group in the relevant Commission and one of the things we talked about in the past was how the Mauthausen prisoners were twice victims: first, of Franco and Franco who deprived them of their nationality and made them stateless, and second, of systematic extermination by the Nazis. Note, that some of those Mauthausen prisoners, specifically Communist Party cadres, still had to face a third purge and reproach of their party for not having died, and since they had not died in Mauthausen they became suspected of collaborating with the Nazis. These kinds of totalitarian attitudes are aberrant. I do not say that you hold it now, but of course you have too many remains. These kinds of propositions are still in that line. There are no human rights of the right and left, we cannot make a sectarian use of universal jurisdiction, we cannot ask to investigate until the end, until the only Francois dies, the crimes of Francoism and refuse to investigate those of ETA when the authors are alive and many of their victims as well. It is a double morality that our group cannot support and that is why we are going to abstain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Surroca. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important in this case that we focus exactly on the subject of the debate. The motion defended today by the Plural Left calls for two questions. First, that the agreement of the Council of Ministers approved on 13 March, which rejected the request for extradition made by the Argentine judicial authorities in respect of 20 persons who committed crimes during the Franco dictatorship, be revoked. By the way, three of these people have already died and some of them were ministers during that time. Secondly, the request for this motion is for the immediate enforcement of the Interpol pre-trial detention order in respect of those persons whose extradition had been requested. In short, the purpose of the debate on this motion is whether or not Argentina's justice should prosecute these people for crimes committed against humanity during Francoism, that is, we are talking here about extraterritorial justice. From what situation do we start in this particular case? What is the basis for the refusal of the Council of Ministers? I think it's interesting to keep that in mind. The agreement of the Council of Ministers, by application of the law, specifically the Law on Passive Extradition, is based on the following principles: First, it refers to the principle of preferential jurisdiction, which would prevent the extradition of Spanish nationals who are in Spain, since by this principle it would be appropriate to bring them before the Spanish courts. In this principle the intervention, and we make it our own, of the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party has been very clear. He said it very well: At times the Amnesty Law has been abused. It is not that the Spanish courts have been prevented, there have been cases in which they have been brought, but they have been very specific cases, which has led to the resignation of the Spanish courts. I very much agree with Mr Esteban's speech in this regard. Secondly, what is the basis of this agreement by the Council of Ministers? In the principle of extinguishment of criminal liability by statute of limitations. In this case, too, this principle is questionable because it would be contradictory, like many international conventions signed, and because of the principle of non-prescription of crimes against humanity. We therefore believe that this point in the agreement of the Council of Ministers is also critical. Finally, it is based on the principle of double criminality, according to which crimes have to be criminalized in both countries. I am not going to touch on this issue any more, but I understand that the first two principles on which the agreement of the Council of Ministers is based are very questionable. So what is the Convergence and Union approach from the point of departure that explained the agreement of the Council of Ministers? From Convergence i Unió we understand that the Spanish Government has an obligation to guarantee access to justice for victims of serious human rights violations. In this case, we believe that the Spanish Government must support the request of the Argentine judicial authority and that the legal framework is provided for the Spanish Government to grant extradition. We also have to remember that this same issue was discussed in the Committee on Justice a few months ago and our parliamentary group then voted in favour of the non-legislative proposal which reflected exactly this request, only that at that time there were certain formal defects in the request for extradition by the Argentine judicial authorities. We also demand that these defects be remedied, and we understand that once the legal framework has been met, it would be advisable not to put on wheels in this regard the Argentine judicial authorities and to provide the victims with access to justice, even to Argentine justice. In our speech in the Committee on Justice with regard to this non-legislative proposal, we made two thoughts which I think it is good that we should also do today. With extraterritorial justice, we may have done what we have been unable to do for so many years in the Spanish State, and it is to repair the damage caused to many people. Many of them have died but there are also their relatives and I think it is important that the damage caused be repaired. Secondly, we would like to point out that the Historical Memory Act, which has been promoted by some by a drum and a platter - I am referring here to the Socialist Government at the time - has also failed to achieve the objectives it was pursuing. Some spokesman who preceded me in the use of the floor mentioned this and I think it is important to take it into account. I am not going to go into the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, I think it is not necessary, but we have to bear in mind the reflection that the Historical Memory Act has not met expectations either, so we have to devote the maximum possible effort on the basis of that instrument...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u218	Mrs. Surroca, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u219	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. He said that we must make every effort to repair the damage caused to victims who have seen their rights violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. For the People's Group, Mr Gómez de la Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. Let us see, Mr Nuet, whether we can introduce certain doses of equanimity here. First of all, I would like to remind the House, in order to make it clear in the "Diario de Sesiones" that the last major genocide that is taking place in Spain, the last continuing crime against humanity that we Spaniards have suffered during forty years of democratic rule, is terrorism, Mr Errekondo, perpetrated by ETA, the terrorism of the Grapo, that of the FRAP, that of the Terra Lliure, that of the Guerrilheiro do Povo Army Galego Ceive, and so on. [[Applauds]] All these groups represented somehow the return to the Civil War and its victims and their renunciation of the exercise of revenge represent coexistence and transition. I want to say this because this initiative is, in my opinion, framed in a political apparatus of questioning that great exercise of coexistence that was the Transition. And I also want to say that last week in this very House the left - not the Socialist Party, the left - and nationalism voted in bloc against a non-law proposal by UPyD, which we naturally support, to investigate whether or not the crimes of ETA in democracy constituted crimes against humanity or crimes of genocide. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is a double morality here that profoundly delegates from the moral point of view and from the democratic point of view the motion that is before us today. [[Applauds]] Let's get to the point. First, this is not a motion on historical memory, it is not in my opinion a motion to condemn Francoism, we have had others and we have participated in them. This is a motion to revoke an agreement of the National High Court and in my opinion admits two approaches, one legal and one policy. The legal has detailed it - therefore I will refer to your intervention - Mr Sánchez Amor with all rigour. I will simply say that there are three reasons that lead the Council of Ministers to refuse extradition: the principle of preferential jurisdiction, the principle of extinguishment of criminal responsibility and the principle of double criminality. As you know that these three principles prevent extradition in any case, we will classify the facts as crimes of genocide or crimes against humanity. But you also know very well that the National Court has ruled on these crimes by saying that in no case - even if the facts were proved, that they are not - would I insist, in no case, be materially constituted crimes of genocide or crimes against humanity. But that doesn't seem to matter to you too much. It seems to me that when we talk about these subjects, which are extremely serious, we are talking with a certain degree of inquisitorial accusatory lightness and there are times when the speeches remind us more of those of a people's court than of the speeches in a Parliament. I am very sorry that certain people have been summoned to charge them with very serious crimes without any evidence, violating their presumption of innocence, violating their right to honour, people who have sometimes provided undoubted services to Spanish democracy, such as Mr Martín Villa and Mr Suárez González, without whose contribution neither you nor I would probably be in this House today, Mr Nuet, and with respect to those who for forty years of democratic rule no Spanish court has opened proceedings. I refuse to think that Argentine justice is of higher quality than Spanish justice and I refuse to think that the moral, ethical and respect for human rights threshold of Judge Servini - with all due respect - is higher than the threshold of the members of the Spanish judiciary. For example, you speak of the famous signatures of death sentences of the ministers of Francoism. It is simply not true, I do not have to defend anyone, but it is that legally it was not so, you do not find a single death sentence signed by a Franco minister. The sentences were signed by the Councils of War and Franco was governed by the organic law of the State - which must be looked at - in the exclusive exercise of the right of grace, and the Council of Ministers was only carrying a communication that, with sinister expression, was called the learned; but you will never find that no Franco government minister has signed a death sentence. That is why I say to you that we must be more careful and respectful of the presumption of innocence and the right to honour people. What's going on here? I used to say it at first. We are faced with a global challenge to the Constitution. And what's done? Two things: first, to enter into the supreme simplification and distortion of history and, secondly, to move from the concept of politics as an exercise of coexistence to a concept of politics as an exercise of confrontation and confrontation. That leads to pure political cainism, and we already know what that attitude leads to in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, my group believes that Spain, that the Spaniards have a perfect right to overcome their past. We do not want a justiciator or justiceist country, we do not want a country where politics serves to confront the Spaniards, but to help them live together. This issue that they bring to us legally is resolved by the National Court and the Council of Ministers. If you ask us, ladies and gentlemen, whether we are in favour of revenge, whether we are in favour of Cainism, whether we are in favour of justiceism, whether we are in favour of inquisition, the answer is no. Thank you very much. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u222	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez de la Serna. Mr Nuet, as an amendment has been tabled to you, I would like you to tell me what you are doing with it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u223	We are going to have a dialogue with the Socialist Group in order to try to reach a compromise.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO EXIMATE THE PRESENTATION OF THE TAX ON SOCIETY TO SMALL ENTITIES WITHOUT LIGHT. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 173/000209]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u225	Motion by the Catalan Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government to exempt small non-profit entities from corporate tax. [[Convergence and Union]] To defend the proposal, Mr Sánchez i Llibre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the Convergence i Unió Parliamentary Group puts before this House a motion for a great social sensitivity which has the fundamental objective of exempting from the presentation of corporation tax all those micro-associations, small foundations that, not for profit, do a great deal of social work and volunteering and that, if we do not reach an agreement in the parliamentary debate that we are going to hold, many of them would be caught up in their disappearance by the bureaucratic problems and the associated cost of the presentation of corporation tax for this type of non-profit associations or foundations, which can come to enter a few thousand euros, having the same approaches and difficulties of presentation as an Ibex company that makes billion euros. Therefore, we are facing a reasonable, common sense situation. It is true that in the parliamentary debate we had with the Minister of Finance and Public Administration the previous week on the question presented by this parliamentary group we all had the feeling - and this Member too - that there was a chance of reaching an agreement and extending it to all political formations to give this feeling that we have sensitivity and social soul towards these thousands of associations that do non-profit work and that do a great service to society. We hope that during this parliamentary debate, despite the fact that no group has tabled amendments to this motion tabled by Convergence i Unió, we will be able to reach an agreement. Many societies are immersed in this complexity. According to our calculations, there are more than 50,000 non-profit associations and foundations that are currently being harmed by the bureaucracy of corporate tax filing. This covers at least two million people who are doing volunteer work, who are working for these non-profit societies and associations or foundations, to which we are making their existence and survival very difficult, unless today we are able to reach an agreement. Within this group of non-profit entities that provide these great social services in their usual work are the parent associations of all Spanish schools, many cultural associations, most of the communities of state owners, sports entities, social entities, youth entities, training workshops for older people... In short, a fabric of the third associative sector that is doing a great job in Spanish civil society. We would like those associations and foundations not to be obliged to submit corporate tax if they meet the following requirements that I will now list. Firstly, that your income does not exceed 100,000 euros. It is true, as was also raised in the debate of the previous week, that today this ceiling has been lowered to 50,000 euros. We had gone to a question of ceilings, but I would say to you that we would be willing to lower this ceiling of 100,000 euros to the current 50,000 euros, provided that the following considerations were maintained. First, that all the revenue that can be incorporated into such associations be allocated solely and exclusively to the carrying out of their activities. What does this mean? That if such associations or foundations have the usual income of their partners, which we all know are exempt from taxation, we can also incorporate within these income those economic activities that they all have to carry out in order to maintain their survival. You know that today any association or foundation which, in addition to its quotas, carries out economic activities in excess of EUR 2000 is obliged to present the company tax. What we want is for all associations whose incomes are all geared towards carrying out their own activities to be exempt and for there to be no such limitation that if an association or an AMPA, in order to improve the services of its social benefits, carries out once a year, for example, a Christmas draw to have complementary income, it will be obliged to present the company tax. We want to fully exempt all income from economic activities in any kind of association or foundation that goes in the same direction. At the same time, we would like to propose another condition in the performance of these functions so that we are all more calm, and it is that all positions, that all members of the governing body work free of charge. Virtually most of the associations or foundations we are talking about meet these requirements: they charge less than 50,000 euros - and, of course, less than 100,000 euros - and have complementary economic activities that can in some cases exceed 2,000 euros, but we understand that this is parrot chocolate for the purposes they are carrying out. We think we should all be able to resolve this situation. Taking up the spirit and feeling of the Minister's statements last week in the question we raised, we are convinced that all parliamentary groups will rise to the occasion and give satisfaction to these thousands of associations that do these voluntary work and to these millions of citizens who are collaborating in social services. I hope that we can reach an agreement without any kind of fissure on all the political formations present in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u227	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Position-setting round because no amendments have been tabled. Mr Baldoví has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I began my speech I wanted to make a small reminder, because while we are talking here the Bosal workers are demonstrating at the door of the Belgian embassy. Bosal is a company of my land, of the port of Sagunto, and I want to show my solidarity with them and with the workers of Movistar and Coca-Cola, who are in full struggle two days from May 1. This motion is the result of the decree-law that inaugurated this year, a decree-law tout fructuit, tailor's drawer and also with a back-step, a decree-law by which they again denied Parliament the processing, debate and possibility of dialogue and consensus. They marched back half-way when, as I understand it, they realized that they were getting into a big eggplant because they wanted to force all kinds of social, cultural, civic associations and sports clubs to present corporation tax as small as their size and even if they were not for profit. And speaking of the Valencian associative fabric, the commissions of failures, of Moors and Christians, of fires, bands of music, schools of music, the APAs, the small sports clubs or even the sports schools that it costs so much were going to have to keep the accounts up to date and take on administrative and bureaucratic tasks or hire consultants or managers that did it when very, very much these entities are managed by people who voluntarily take care of everything and do everything. Finally, they had no choice but to rectify and re-exempt certain non-profit entities, but Compromís believes that they were short and that this motion of Convergence i Unió is reasonable, because in a country where it is so difficult to build, braid a strong associative fabric, any measure aimed at facilitating the life of our commissions, of our associations, of our small clubs will count on our vote in favour. Before attempting to stifle all this associative fabric, the People's Group should take this into account, rethink it and vote in favour, as it is a reasonable motion. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Anchuelo has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u230	Thank you, Mr. President. My group believes that this motion has a commendable end: the promotion, the development of civil society. In our country there are many small voluntary, non-profit associations that perform functions of great social interest, in the cultural and sporting fields, and it is appropriate to facilitate the lives of those who already exist and to encourage the emergence of new ones, that is, to promote social spontaneity. It makes no sense, therefore, to impose unnecessary bureaucratic burdens on such associations and to force them to submit corporate tax because they sell lottery or sell T-shirts. As the Minister and other speakers have said, there has been some progress in legislation to avoid these problems, but what the proposing group is asking us is to go beyond and extend those limits. We think that your proposal is reasonable because there are two cautions that are demanding and that will prevent this extension of limits from becoming a collapsible so that they do not present the tax on entities other than those that pursue the motion. As Mr Sánchez i Llibre has pointed out, these two precautions are that management positions are not remunerated and that all income is devoted to the entity's own purposes. We believe that with such caution there is no danger of extending the existing limits in the legislation today, and that is why we will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u231	For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. Go ahead and vote in favour of La Izquierda Plural for the motion tabled by the Catalan Parliamentary Group [[Convergence and Union]] As previous speakers have rightly said, the reality of our country is largely based on the activity that tens of thousands of entities are developing without profit and which has to do with the associative reality - parents' associations, volunteering, environmentalists, cultural, neighborhood, sports, social, etc. - and they unanimously call for the Government to change its attitude and to change again - if possible and if it has the will to do so - both the law it proposed and the subsequent amendment by the corresponding decree which means a clear burden on the economic management of non-profit entities. It is necessary to differentiate whether the entity develops an activity for non-profit purposes and to recognize the value that the legal form of the association has as a tool, as an instrument of cohesion and healthy self-organisation of active, committed and participatory citizenship. As the motion proposes, all economic assets that can be generated must be directed at the entity's own activity. We want to be consistent with what we expressed in the Committee on Education and Sport in February in the amendments tabled by this group to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on defence and support for basic sports clubs. We do not believe that the proposal expressed in the motion - it is not the will of the proposers - is an open door to any kind of fraud. That is why, as has already been said, the necessary regulatory changes in fiscal matters must be analysed - we think that in this way we can strengthen non-profit entities in terms of corporation tax and VAT - in order to find the balance between the fulfilment of the tax obligations of social, cultural, voluntary or basic sports entities and the objectives of service to the community and its management characteristics, since it must be recognized that they usually have few resources and a lot of voluntary work. In addition, it would therefore be appropriate to develop social security legislation so that the amounts paid in compensation for the costs incurred by the volunteers of the institutions are not taken into account for the salary. In the light of the experience of other European countries, social security rules should determine the maximum amounts that volunteers can receive on the assumption of non-wage payments. Serve these reflections that I am doing to reinforce the motion presented by Convergence i Unió. We will vote in favour, although we understand that this is a minimal step towards the will so far expressed by the Government. That is to say, the proposal improves the Government's approaches, but we would prefer that these changes had not occurred, we would prefer the situation before Law 27/2014. And it would be a question of returning, at least, to the situation in which the limits are set not to exceed EUR 100,000. That's what tens of thousands of entities claim. The motion is a step in the direction of what the entities of our country are asking for. If the Government does not change it, we will continue to propose changes in what remains of the legislature or in the next one. I insist, we do not talk about fraud, we talk about consolidating social entities as partners in the consolidation of political and participatory democracy by their efforts in social cohesion and in the strength of our society. That is why we will support the motion put forward by Convergence i Unió.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u233	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u234	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group, like the other groups, is going to vote in favour of this motion because we understand that it is reasonable and because we hope it will serve to abound in the arguments that are currently being discussed in the handling of Royal Decree 1/2015, with a view to exempting small non-profit entities from the corporate tax declaration. We are pleased that the Government is prepared to make good its mistake by imposing on the Law on the Reform of the IRPF and on corporation tax the obligation to submit a declaration to small entities, without, I believe without bad faith, valuing the damage that could cause them, thereby complicating their functioning and management, since the components of their boards are mostly voluntary and must continue to be voluntary, and whose efforts are directed towards the common good. I know that in this decree the Government raises the figure of 50,000 euros for the declaration of corporation tax. Indeed, it is a step forward, but it seems disproportionate to us if we look at the characteristics of small entities. They have already been described above, but they are entities where voluntary work is the great added value and has a very large multiplier effect. Therefore, from my group we ask you to return to the previous situation of the IRPF Act and the corporation tax that came into force at the beginning of the year, i.e. take a step back to do so perhaps a little bit better. We are talking about about 50,000 entities, but you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, were talking about 2,000,000, because the multiplier effect of these entities and the very important role they play in social cohesion is enormous. In most cases, these entities have a small administrative support or have some social work professional to help them make the arrangements, volunteers, yes, but rightly. It is well known, I insist, that this social fabric helps to vertebrate, compact, and cohesive society. That's why we have to protect him. I would like to add something that might be worth reflecting on. We know that the result of these entities' work in terms of social impact is very high, we sense it, but we have no data. Perhaps it would be worth considering their work in economic terms, because if these intermediate structures favour greater personal and collective autonomy - and we are sure of that - and make it less dependent on public aid, to the extent that society has more capacity for self-organization, it causes less pressure in the public sector and, nevertheless, helps to make a more normalized life. They have an activity that becomes preventive because, in the case of an association of parents, it makes it possible to detect difficulties in children or their families; in addition, solidarity is encouraged, for example, the exchange of books or aids to school leavers, if we follow the example of AMPAs. But how is it quantified economically? What about your impact, Mr. Sánchez i Llibre? My group would like to move forward with this cost analysis of voluntary activity and what would happen if this activity were not carried out. Socially, we know it: anomie and conflict. But what about economics? That is why we agree, first of all, to lighten the corporate tax burden to EUR 100,000, as Mr Sánchez i Llibre says, knowing that it will not cost public finances. And, at the same time, we urge you - the Government, everyone - and we are going to go a little further, to do things that other countries like the United Kingdom, Sweden, Denmark, have done, to put numbers on voluntary and solidarity work, and thereby give real value to the social balance, which is as much as we are able to put the promotion, aid and impulse to the great wealth that these entities represent at the forefront. We already do it, but knowing more we will do it better, knowing more we know what we play and knowing more we know that these entities actually make up income for the public treasury at the end and, more importantly, benefits for the coexistence and vertebration of society in our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u235	Thank you very much, Mrs. Esteve. For the People's Group, Mrs Veray has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u236	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to set out the position of the People's Parliamentary Group in relation to the subsequent motion of inquiry made by Mr Sánchez i Llibre, on behalf of the Convergence and Union Group, to the Minister of Finance to exempt small non-profit entities from corporate tax. Be my first words of appreciation to these entities, I would like today to highlight the extraordinary social work they do and to convey to them the recognition and admiration of my parliamentary group, as well as thank you for your work, dedication and dedication for the common good. I do not think anyone in this Congress of Deputies is questioning today the great work of social vertebration and in favour of the social cohesion of the Spanish society that these entities do. It is precisely because of this recognition and admiration for all these entities that the People's Party Government, when in February it was shown that the complex but very important and necessary tax reform had posed difficulties in the normal functioning of these entities, amended through the Royal Decree-Law of the second chance article 124, paragraph 3, of the Law on Tax on Societies to fix this situation. It is an amendment that I believe cannot be ignored because it was the first step of this Government to resolve a situation created in an involuntary manner and which did not, as the amendment does not seek, seek to put bureaucratic obstacles on these entities. Entities whose total income does not exceed EUR 50,000 per annum, whose income for non-exempt income does not exceed EUR 2,000 per annum and where all non-exempt income they obtain is subject to withholding tax shall be exempt from corporate tax. These are the three requirements that were put into the change that they do - except for the 100,000 euros, because the approved amount is 50,000 - is to return to the previous situation and that has been claimed by more than one spokesman from various parliamentary groups from this rostrum. The People's Party, my parliamentary group and the Government are ready to discuss what Convergence i Unió is asking us today, to reach agreements and consensus. That is why we ask you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, that all this be done through the processing as a bill of Royal Decree-Law 1/2015, of 27 February, of Second Opportunity, which, as you know, will be processed as a bill. That is, therefore, the channel for holding this debate. Mr Sánchez i Libre said in his speech that this debate is over today. No, the debate on this motion does not end today. What will really end - and we hope that with agreement and consensus and therefore for the benefit of these small non-profit entities - will be the processing as a bill of Royal Decree-Law 1/2015, of 27 February. It is in that process that we have to reach agreements because if we do not fall into the mistake of rushing. I will tell you why, because I see that no parliamentary group has noticed. In their motion, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, we are asked to amend Article 9(4) as well. Do you know what you're talking about? Political parties. Do you believe that today, that we are all talking about transparency and more control of political parties, my Government and my parliamentary group can accept that with this error in your motion, exemptions to political parties are introduced into the corporation tax? No, no, I therefore hope that you will agree to move this issue to the procedure of the draft law, that we will continue to work until the time of the vote on this motion to arrive unanimously at a text that pleases everyone and, above all, that achieves the ultimate objective of benefiting these small, non-profit entities, which is the objective we all pursue. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-29-CD150429.u237	Thank you very much, Mrs. Veray. The meeting was suspended. It was two and ten minutes in the afternoon.
