ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and agreed upon by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House that the agenda be amended in urgent cases, so that the agenda of the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, which is on the agenda under item 27, will be discussed first under item V, urgent cases. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u2	It takes into consideration the La Izquierda Plural proposal for a law on the reform of the value-added tax on basic services: water, electricity, gas and transport. Mrs Ortiz has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, just over a year ago, I was bringing the debate on energy poverty to this House for the first time. At that time it was an integral approach to the drama of many families in this country who are precisely deprived of access to something as everyday as it is to warm up or light up. At that time all the groups in this House, except the People's Group, voted in favour. It has been a year and three months since that debate, from that not of the Government to combat energy poverty, and also a year since the electricity reform which, as I will explain later, has further worsened the situation. We also have the recent tax reform, which has reduced the State's income and increased the social gap. Today we bring you a concrete, less ambitious, less comprehensive, but politically and socially relevant proposal. Today, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a fiscal debate. It is a debate on essential goods. It's a human rights debate. It is a debate about what contributes to social justice and what and who contributes to inequality and people's suffering. The decisions they have made or those they have ceased to make have consequences. Although Mr Rajoy told us the other day that he did not live in that country we were talking about, that country he says he does not know, that country exists, ladies and gentlemen. It's the country where people live in the dark, eat once a day, or get sick because they can't keep their house at the right temperature. That country is there, but we can change it with political will. You have made structural the precariousness of many families with your unjust policies. GDP, the wealth of the country, can grow, but with its energy, fiscal and privatization policy of services they put wealth in the pockets that are already full. Today we want to talk to you about access to basic goods, water, light, gas, transport, and to reverse precisely that logic. We want to discuss what the Government prioritizes and decides. You have come here constantly to tell us that things could only be done in your own way, that there was no margin and that cuts were the key to recovery, but the truth is that a government can decide what it does with its resources and from who it is. Today we do not bring them a magical solution to poverty, but, if today energy poverty already affects more than 7 million people who pass cold, if the light cuts multiply or there are people who do not take the subway because they cannot afford it, they must ask themselves if it is not worth at least admitting this initiative in order to be able to discuss it. VAT is a clearly regressive tax on essential goods, because it is the lowest income that must devote a larger part of its income to the consumption of such goods. This high VAT penalizes them to a greater extent. What is the situation we have? In recent years, basic services have increased by three times as much as wages since 2007. That is the result of political decisions. Energy for domestic consumption has become a luxury asset. As much as Mr Soria comes here and tells us that the electricity tariff does not go up, the fact is that the INE itself - state data - says that in 2014 the tariff has risen by 4.4%, and we have to say that for the small consumer the rise has been 88% since 2006. This, together with an increase in VAT from 16 % to 21 % in four years, leads to an unsustainable situation for many families. They know that our parliamentary group has proposed numerous initiatives to put an end to an energy system at the service of oligopoly and to bet on a public service energy policy that guarantees the universality of service, the fairness and the progressiveness of tariffs and an environmentally responsible model. However, the Government-led electricity sector reform has only worsened the situation. Today, a year later, we have a stronger electric oligopoly. Consumers accumulate increases in tariffs and increases in debt to electricity. With their reform they have reduced the number of beneficiaries of the social bonus and, on the other hand, they have made energy savings impossible, because they raise the fixed term of the invoice and those who want to save cannot. In addition, they are processing a sun tax so that people who want to produce energy and save can't do it either. It is a real social, economic and environmental misconception. In the case of water, you too use it as a source of business. The water management of the People's Party, also of Convergence i Unió and, in some cases, of the PSOE in the different communities has produced a similar effect: privatization processes that lead to a worsening of the quality of service and price increases. For example, in Catalonia, since the privatization of ATLL, between 2012 and 2013 tariffs have increased by 80%. That is the consequence of the drift of their policies. In the case of transport, especially the public, it is really clear, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not take the subway or the vicinity. In the Barcelona metro there have been increases of 40% in three years; in the Madrid metro they have been of 38% since 2008. That's right, they rescue the freeway dealers, which go empty. Those are the priorities and not the right to mobility and sustainability. What is the result of those decisions and increases? Ladies and gentlemen, these decisions, these figures, have faces, names and surnames. With regard to energy poverty, the recent study by the Association of Environmental Sciences already speaks of 7 million people who suffer from it. Supply cuts are growing exponentially. In the field of gas - according to the data of the Alliance against Poverty - only 75,000 cuts occurred in 2013, 86% more than in the previous year. With regard to electricity, there were one and a half million power cuts, but there have also been three-fold suspensions of water supply between 2011 and 2012. These figures, ladies and gentlemen, have very serious economic and social costs. This exclusion to basic services has an impact on health, with premature deaths and increased mortality in winter, in addition to the resulting health costs. But, of course, if some of us lose, someone has to win with those decisions that you are making and, in parallel, the big power companies have distributed 14.6 billion into extraordinary dividends. Apart from that, because of the government's leniency and passivity, we have paid more than EUR 3.4 billion in the costs of transition to competition. In case it were little, we will all pay in our gas bill 4.7 billion to Don Florentino Pérez for the failure of the Castor project. Today they will tell us that we cannot afford to lower VAT to basic supplies. Ladies and gentlemen, the increase in VAT has meant an increase in the average expenditure of EUR 356 per family. You have allowed yourself to cut 9 billion in tax reform. You will say that now it is not up to you to lower VAT, but instead, in your tax reform, to an income of 150.000 euros per year you have given you 3,500 on your IRPF discount. Yours are undercut by taxation, but most of them, those who need that drop, nothing at all. Instead of these high tax rates, the Government should consider alternative measures to increase VAT collection, because the lack of collection has to do with tax fraud, as we explained today to the director of the Tax Agency. You do not want to fight poverty or lower VAT from light, but you do, for example, lower VAT on the sale of art. There is a clear difference between having the will to ensure access to basic supplies for society as a whole and not having it. While in this country the Government is committed to the interests of the supplier companies and the adalides of cuts and austerity, we have to look into our environment and see what is happening. Most countries have strategies to combat poverty, such as the new Syriza Government in Greece, which has committed to regaining control of energy, implementing an energy transition plan to renewables, but also urgent measures to ensure that all families have electricity and gas. In short, it has striven to regain the dignity of people through the guarantee of supplies, quite the contrary to what this Government does, which worsens the situation, as is the case with other indignant measures taken by autonomous governments, such as Convergence i Unió, which empties the Fund against energy poverty and calls for donations in order to be able to fill it. You can be miserable or classy, but you can also be brave and just. If you want to, ladies and gentlemen, you can. That is the reality, that in the face of basic supplies, with light and gas, you have been kidnapped by the big corporations. 40% of the members of the governing boards of the gas and electricity companies of this country are linked to the People's Party, the Socialist Party and in some cases to Convergence i Unió. It is not lack of will, but wills purchased, and that is the effect. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come to you with a modest proposal, we propose a reduction in VAT for basic supplies. It is a measure that can be addressed and we are convinced that it is necessary to do so. With regard to electricity VAT, only three countries in Europe have higher VAT than in Spain. We are talking about Slovenia, Portugal and Finland, with a higher type. This reflects that there is a way to go and that the tax reduction is possible. We would not think of such a measure if we had a 16% VAT, but it has risen exponentially over four years. In fact, Article 102 of the VAT Directive allows Member States to apply a reduced tax rate to the supply of natural gas, electricity and urban heating, provided that there is no distortion of competition, and you know that it is not precisely VAT that distorts competition, but an electrical market that does not work. If we talk about water, Spain's tax rate is also among the largest in the European Union. There are only three countries with higher water VAT, one of which is Finland. In this context, there is also scope to reduce to a super-reduced rate of 4 %. There is only a lack of political will, which you have not shown, as I have already pointed out. Ladies and gentlemen, they are not on the side of people, they are on the side of energy companies and suppliers. Some will make environmental excuses. This is not the debate. It was precisely La Izquierda Plural that brought into this House an environmental tax law, which has asked to penalize the sum consumption, excessive consumption, but in the case of VAT it is not a tax that makes it possible to do that environmental function. We defend figures who record these summary consumptions of electricity and water, but we have been denied. From ecology what we propose are figures that penalize expensive activities for the environment and wasteful consumption of scarce goods, such as water and energy. That is compatible with tax equity if we put a reasonable VAT on basic supplies. Maintaining a VAT of 21 % is tacking with those who devote more than 10 % of their income precisely to paying those receipts. Transport VAT, of course, is also an issue to be taken into account. There is scope to reduce it, in fact there are many countries that have a zero rate, such as Denmark, the Netherlands or Ireland, which do not pay VAT. This reduction would encourage public transport and generate economic and energy savings. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you can do things differently. A government can stand up to defend citizens against speculators and vultures, as in Greece, or can kneel and be a spokesperson for banking or electricity. A Government may decide to use the fiscal instruments it has to reduce inequalities or can help create them, as it has done so far. It is a question of dignity, rights and democracy. It is a question of will that, at the very least, they are willing to accept this initiative, which can obviously be modified, can be pointed out, but at the very least allow for debate on such a bloody issue as that which affects so many millions of families in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortiz. Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor in the Joint Group for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. I rise to this rostrum to set my group's position on the proposal for a law on the reform of the value-added tax on basic services, such as water, electricity, gas and transport. The Plural Left presents a bill that the BNG considers very timely, because it responds to a need constantly demanded by society. These days, with specific reference to energy, the National Commission on Markets and Competition has joined users' criticism of the high price of light. The president of this body admitted in the framework of the meeting of the energy sector organized by IESE that the citizens are paying a very high price for the electricity they consume. There has also been a strong demand from the industrial sector for lower energy prices in order to reduce production costs. However, this Government listens deafly to these demands and has preferred to opt, in order to reduce productive costs, for the reduction of wages and the deterioration of working conditions. Mr Montoro did not shake his hand in raising VAT to basic products such as the commodities we are talking about: in the case of energy, fuels, water and transport, despite, ladies and gentlemen, that this service - energy in particular - is already sufficiently taxed with other taxes and fees, in addition to its complex auction structure, but we know that this is a debate for another time, a debate which has, of course, been given in this House on numerous occasions, such as the one recently aroused by the BNG on the occasion of the possible closure of companies such as Alcoa, with which it represented the loss of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance wanted to contribute to the increase of these products and, therefore, to cooperate in increasing that energy poverty that has been mentioned many times - to which the proposer of this initiative has just mentioned - which we have denounced so many times and which suffer so many thousands and thousands of families. Have you noticed, ladies and gentlemen, how many people have died this winter from the use of inadequate fuels? Ladies and gentlemen, those are the consequences that this energy poverty that the Government is not seeking solutions to. We are aware that all the solutions to these problems do not come from the proposal put forward today by the Plural Left, but we are also aware that, if we do what is proposed here, it would greatly lessen the situation of gravity that many citizens are suffering because of the energy issue and, above all, from our point of view, it would make it easier to reach a fair price for products that are basic and of primary need for citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mrs Jordà, for the Joint Group too.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, when it was only four days before the citizens came to the polls, candidate Mariano Rajoy launched one of the most famous lies in the electoral campaign: I am not going to raise taxes - he said - because today raising them means more unemployment and also means more recession, it means giving a more turn to the mischievous economies of families and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, the price of their basic goods, water and light has risen to the poor economies of families and businesses. Since 2010, VAT on basic services has risen 5 points: from 16% to 21% in the case of energy and from 7% to 10% in the case of water and public transport. As always - and I discover absolutely nothing -, business in abundance for some; ruin and at the same time despair for hundreds of thousands of people. To see the business in abundance we must also see the astronomical benefits shared by the electric companies, in which they feel like advisors - and we have already denounced it on more than one occasion - former ministers and former presidents of the PSOE and the People's Party, very well paid by the way. Meanwhile, we citizens pay the most expensive light in Europe, even though we carry an electricity debt of more than EUR 26 billion, which is curiously less than the profits made by companies in the time when that debt has been generated. In other words, that the debt to the electrics - cause of the increase of the bill of light and other social cuts - has gone directly to enrich the companies. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to neoliberalism. And as companies and their advisors get rich, more than 7 million people are, today, victims of energy poverty. This can only be defined as shameful and as a blatant social expoliation, as is a social expoliation the Spanish tax system, which makes the lower classes and the middle classes pay more taxes than the great fortunes, or that the wages of the workers pay more taxes than the profits of the speculators, for example, stock exchanges. It is therefore urgent at least to reduce VAT on basic services such as electricity or water to relieve the burden on families and businesses. Look at the paradox. It turns out that the People's Party government has raised taxes so that the government has more money and, supposedly - this is a lot to suppose, but we suppose - to be able to meet the needs of the population, but if it turns out that light and water are the basic needs of families and businesses, would it not be more opportune to lower their VAT? Far from this, basic supplies such as water, light or gas have cost much more since the beginning of the crisis. We have insisted throughout this parliamentary term - not the first time - that it is not a question of reducing taxes, but of lowering them for the middle and lower classes, for the SMEs and the self-employed, while increasing them for the big companies and the big fortunes. If you still want to keep the income for VAT, then lower the tax rate of light, water and public transport, benefiting the entire population, and believe - as we have long demanded from Esquerra Republicana - a luxury VAT for the most selected products, which are the ones that people obviously buy with more resources, the most powerful people, the people with more money, by the way, the people to whom the crisis does not affect, the people who continue to increase their fortune despite the same crisis. However, not only do they do nothing to combat poverty in general and energy poverty in particular, they also boycott the efforts of the Catalonian Parliament to act against poverty by creating a tax on banks or by adopting a pact to combat energy poverty, reduce poverty levels and meet the objectives set out in the Lisbon agreements. This is what they do. The response of the People's Party was to bring our proposal, the Catalan proposal, to the Constitutional. Bravo, ladies and gentlemen! Clearly, the only option - and I finish - remains to build a new country, it is the only way, the Catalan Republic, which, above all, pretends to be a country where social justice exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. I will intervene very briefly from the seat to determine the position of the Basque Group with regard to the consideration of the proposal for a law on the reform of value added tax in basic services: water, electricity, gas and transport. I am pleased that our group is going to vote in favour of that consideration. We believe that the reduction of VAT on these commodities is an issue not only of an economic nature but also of a social nature. The economic crisis has led a lot of people to what has been called energy poverty, that is, they cannot pay the electricity bill, the water bill or the public transport bill. We understand that this is a positive initiative that we would really like to discuss and we would also like to do so in a broad sense, because we believe that there is another large number of services and products that, being of a basic nature, are expensive for many groups that have low incomes and that are having a very bad time in the crisis. It would therefore be important to expand this list considerably. We hope that other groups will also vote in favour of the inclusion. Of course, we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Ancholous has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. We are being proposed by the Plural Left to reduce VAT on basic, mainly energy products, with the argument of how expensive they are in our country and the concern for energy poverty. Progress Union and Democracy shares this concern about the high cost of energy in Spain - one of the highest in the European Union - and about energy poverty itself. That is why we have supported initiatives, some of the Plural Left itself, in the past on this issue. But, as often happens to us with the proposals of this group, sharing the ultimate objectives, we disagree in the methods that we propose to combat them because we believe that the high energy cost in Spain has deep roots that go far beyond what is proposed in this proposal. In fact, it is already clear in the text itself that this does not solve the underlying problems. Indeed, the high cost of energy in Spain has to do with the cost of generation, we use expensive ways of generation. By the way, there are groups, like the proposing group itself, which, when talking about energy, often do not worry too much about the costs of generating different energy sources. It also has to do with the introduction of all kinds of compensations in the energy bill that have little to do with electricity consumption, such as compensations to the Castor depot, and it has to do with the existence of an uncompetitive oligopolistic market, which causes, for example, when the price of oil falls, that of gasoline falls much less. These underlying problems behind the high energy cost have little to do with what is brought here. What we are being brought here is an indiscriminate reduction of VAT, and I emphasize the indiscriminate adjective because it is the key to the objections that it raises. We can understand that a certain minimum level of energy consumption is a basic necessity, but is any level of energy consumption a basic necessity? If someone has a three-storey house and consumes unfavorably, is all their energy consumption a basic necessity or just a minimum threshold? Here we do not get into these kinds of considerations, we reduce energy VAT in a general way, so that those who consume the most would be saved with this measure - in that sense it is regressive - and that would further discourage energy savings and efficiency in our country. We believe that there are better alternatives, social programmes aimed more closely at those in energy poverty without the need for such a broad-ranging measure. Obviously this measure would have an important collection cost that is not quantified here at all, but this collection that would be lost serves to maintain social services that the proposing group and others consider essential in our country. In addition, VAT is a harmonised tax in the context of the European Union and, although the opposite is argued here, we are not so clear that it is so easy to modify this because there is quite restrictive European legislation, especially as regards the use of super-reduced rates. The alternatives of my group - we have defended them on other occasions, other speakers and I - have to do with an energy policy that takes into account the costs of generating energy, they have to do with an increase in competition in the electricity sector and we also advocate fiscal action. We defend it in a tax reform, but by another way; there is a tax that also affects electricity, the excise duty on electricity, a purely national tax that is not harmonised within the European Union, so there would be no difficulty in making any reduction there. However, what we are being asked to do here is to take this bill into consideration. We believe that it should be taken into account, we would amend it in the sense that we are saying, affecting other taxes or through other social programmes to combat energy poverty. We would like to reopen the general debate on VAT because we criticised its so drastic rise by this government, which had promised a tax reduction and which tripled VAT, not only went up the rates but changed the classification of many products. VAT is a tax that taxes consumption only and affects lower incomes more, which are consumed in its entirety, and we are in favour - as we also advocate in our proposal for tax reform - of selectively reducing VAT on cultural, educational and school products. We argue that the VAT on health products - which was raised by a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union - reverts to health, i.e. that the revenue generated by the rise reverts to health. This proposal therefore gives us the opportunity to reopen this VAT debate as a whole and we will therefore vote in favour of it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió, Mr Picó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. My group agrees with the initiative that we are discussing today and, therefore, progress that we will be voting in favour of it. Basic supplies, as the title of the initiative says, are essential services for citizens who, in relation to value added tax, do not enjoy tax treatment commensurate with that nature, as essential. In the context of the European Union there is no uniformity in the application of VAT rates. The Sixth Directive provides for the possibility for Member States to choose to apply a reduced rate to these supplies after notification to the European Commission, provided that this does not result in any risk of distortion of competition, and that is how several Member States currently apply much lower VAT rates than those in force in Spain. I must also tell you that, in relation to natural gas and electricity, Article 102 of the Sixth Directive allows the application of the reduced rate, provided that there is also no risk of distortion of competition. In the case of Spain, the tax rate for energy products is the maximum, at 21 %, being an important part of the cost of electricity and gas consumption bills. In addition, in the case of electricity consumption, the amount corresponding to the electricity tax is included for the calculation of the VAT base, which entails a higher tax burden. But we must also take account of other Community legislation in this area. Directive 2009/72/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council states that Member States shall take appropriate measures to protect final customers and, in particular, to ensure adequate protection for vulnerable customers. The same is true of the directive on common rules for the internal market in natural gas. In this respect, each Member State should define the concept of a vulnerable customer, which may refer to energy poverty and, inter alia, the prohibition of electricity disconnection to such customers in critical periods, and should also ensure the implementation of rights and obligations related to vulnerable customers. The incorporation of both directives should have been carried out at most on 3 March 2011 and, despite this, this incorporation in Spain has to date been very partial through the so-called regulation of the social bond for the electricity sector, but similar measures have not been taken for the gas sector, nor has the possibility of prohibiting the disconnection of vulnerable customers during critical periods been regulated. It should be borne in mind that 60% of the countries of the European Union have legislation that prevents the cutting off of electricity supply to vulnerable households, which in some cases is of a total nature and in other cases is limited to winter months. In the case of Spain, this is not the case; one thing has not been done or the other has not been done. Energy poverty is a matter of concern to my parliamentary group, Convergence and Union, and of great concern to it. As you know, the Generalitat de Catalunya - before referring to this, Mrs Jordà - approved the creation of the Energy Solidarity Fund to prevent the interruption of energy supplies, gas and electricity, to people and families in a situation of economic vulnerability, a fund endowed with public funds and contributions from the supplying companies. It seems that Mrs Ortiz does not like and agrees with the Government of the People's Party, which has appealed this measure to the Constitutional Court, which has temporarily suspended its application. Catalonia has taken action; the Government of the State neither adopts nor lets adopt them, with the social consequences that its decision has. Mrs Ortiz seems to agree with that, too. And not just this. As early as 2008, my parliamentary group tabled a proposal for a law lowering the VAT rate on electricity and gas supplies. My group has already defended more than seven years ago, in the face of a crisis that we already had, the need to alleviate energy poverty that was already a reality in many households at that time in 2008. I must tell you, Mrs Ortiz, that by sharing the consideration of the proposal for a law, as I have already told you, we must talk about coherence. In considering this proposal for a law of Convergence i Unified in 2008 the deputy representing his formation, Mr Herrera, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left-United Left-Initiative for Catalunya Verds, said that the initiative that had been presented by my parliamentary group should be rejected because what he was doing was going down indiscriminately, regardless of the resources of the family and what is being consumed. In that case, we were talking about VAT. It was so - I must say - a proposal for a law amending the VAT law for the application of the reduced rate to electricity and gas supplies on a universal basis, as you and your group have defended here today. In 2008, the Republican Left-United Left-Initiative Group for Catalunya Verds voted against the initiative put forward by my parliamentary group. Year 2008. But don't be afraid, Mrs Ortiz, because you were inconsistent with the position you are now taking, without a doubt, but welcome is the change of position, not because it is coincidental with the one that my group has been holding since 2008, but because we share the same concern, energy poverty, and we put forward proposals to, at least, compensate for it, because this means tackling it simply. Consistency, Mrs. Ortiz. I would like to recall that on that occasion, in 2008, the Socialist Parliamentary Group voted against the initiative put forward by Convergence i Unió - at the time they were ruling - and the People's Parliamentary Group voted in favour of the consideration. It seems that today the sense of the vote is going to be the opposite. We are satisfied that the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left has changed its mind and now defends the adoption of measures to alleviate energy poverty, as it now defends Convergence i Unió and already defended in 2008, not for nothing, but because it is a necessary and social justice measure. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Picó. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Vázquez Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again we are talking about energy poverty in this House. In this case we are discussing a proposal for a law presented by La Izquierda Plural to reform VAT on basic products and services: electricity, gas, water and transport. Mr Picó, times have changed, situations are not the same in 2015 as in 2008. There have been several proposals that we have discussed in this Parliament in this House and all have been rejected by the People's Party. We will not stop reminding the Government that it has an obligation to stop this scourge, this social shame that we have been living in our country for years, and we will repeat it until it shuts up in the Government, until it embarrasses it or loses the absolute majority that it usually employs against the most disadvantaged classes. Energy poverty, which is defined as the inability to afford a minimum amount of energy to meet the basic needs of a home, is - we have to check it in reality - the impossibility that many citizens have of maintaining a reasonable temperature in their home and at the same time being able to eat and dine every day, or the impossibility of costing hot water for struggle - yes, without smiles - and at the same time that the boys can turn on the flex to do their homework. It's all related, ladies and gentlemen. This happens in the country that presumes to be the second-largest growing country in the European Union, and can boast, but it is a shame that presumes when these things are happening. It is a country that presumes to grow 1.4% of GDP and food banks ask donors for food that should not be cooked because people who go after them cannot even heat them. In a country that claims to grow by 4%, Caritas is paying more and more families. All this aside from what families do without anyone knowing, because there is a lot of energy poverty that you can't see. According to the Association of Environmental Sciences - the government does not do surveys or statistics or reports, perhaps not to know - the inability of a minimum amount of energy services to meet the basic needs of a family affected almost 10% of households in 2010 but is increasing because in 2013 it reached almost 17, 16.7%. The situation does not improve, but quite the contrary, because the policies of the PP government have made the rich more and more rich, that is so, and the poor more and more poor, as their ideology marks. They have managed to make us the second most unequal country in the European Union behind Latvia; the gap between rich and poor - this is not the first time it is said here either - is widening more and more. So when the government assumes that we are going to grow 2% or more of GDP in 2015 what it's saying is that Ibex companies, banks, electricity companies, the richest, are going to have more, but those who have less will still not be able to turn on the heating because nothing the government does to improve their situation. I hope I do not have to hear here again about energy poverty that the government creates employment, which is the best way to combat energy poverty - which I have already heard - because it is not true, nor has the unemployment rate decreased since it arrived in the government, which I remember when it arrived in the government was 21.8% and we are now, to the satisfaction of the government, 23.7%, nor with the salaries that are now being paid with the new jobs we can turn on the heating. This is the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, energy poverty is the new social drama after the evictions, both of which affect a scale of society that does not matter much to the People's Party. It seems to be, therefore, that it has neither sought serious solutions to the evictions nor is it seeking them to solve the issue of energy poverty. On the contrary, the Government has been feeding in these years that it has been governing the causes of energy poverty, namely: the first cause is low income. The Government's actions have encouraged a larger number of families to have a low income. Labour reform has done nothing but destroy jobs, even if they are committed to saying otherwise, and devalue wages. Having a job is no longer a guarantee of not being in poverty. On the other hand, the Government has reduced unemployment benefits in terms of both the amount received and the percentage of recipients. However, it has ensured that more and more families are below the poverty line. The second of the causes is the continued increase in energy prices. The rise of light is a rise that only denies Minister Soria. On the basis of repeating that the light has gone down, he thinks that he might be able to see the lower bill, but the reality is clumsy, including the INE, the National Commission on Markets and Competition and, above all, the consumers, however complicated they put the bill, what we see in the end is that we pay more and more for the consumption of the light. The third cause is the poor quality of the building because the heat escapes through the windows, it escapes through the cracks. Who suffers this, who lives in the poorest constructions? I would ask some of you to do the test, just one day, two days, so that the house takes the room temperature, that they do not turn on heating and that they turn on very few lights and they will see how unbearable it is. I did, because my daughter asked me to. The proposal for a law submitted by the Plural Left proposes a single article aimed at amending Law 37/1992 on value added tax, to apply to electricity, natural gas and liquefied gases for domestic use 10% VAT and to water and passenger transport 4%. This is the case in some countries, as Mrs Ortiz explained. England, for example, applies 5% to electricity. In any case, from my group we believe that lowering VAT to this service does not solve the issue of energy poverty because a family that enters 650 euros a month, which can be a minimum wage, if it has to pay 100 euros of light with 21% it cannot pay 91 with 10%, because it has to devote more than 10% of its salary to paying energy. But despite the fact that the proposed part of this initiative only concerns the modification of VAT, it is true that the explanatory statement, the explanation of Mrs Ortiz and other initiatives that the Plural Left has presented explicitly require further action; actions that the Socialist Group has also proposed recently, actions that it proposed, for example, in the proposed law discussed last October, which rejected, like all, the People's Party, and the non-legislative proposal that we tabled in February. For these reasons we will vote in favour of taking into account the proposal for a law because in the course of the procedure, if the People's Party does not prevent it, I doubt it, we will be able to address this issue from an integral perspective. Because, as I have already said, and the proposing group also acknowledges, only the reduction of VAT does not solve the serious problem of energy poverty in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Asian.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that the main objective of the People's Party's policy is to promote economic growth and job creation. This means fighting poverty, but against poverty of all kinds. Obviously, those families that have a shortage of resources have difficulty paying their energy bills, but have difficulty paying all their bills. We intend to fight, and we do, against poverty in all its manifestations, contrary to what the Socialist Government did, which created a manifest poverty in Spain during the period 2008-2011, when it destroyed more than 3 million jobs, because poverty is very related to the loss of jobs. In this essential objective of the People's Party to combat poverty, therefore, tax policy has an essential role. And what is our tax policy? Lower taxes whenever the level of collection allows us, ensure the financing of essential social services and do so fairly. Therefore, let us not be taught social sensitivities because we know that the sinking of public revenues is the worst threat of the welfare state. And that's what happened in Spain in the previous government period, that there was no public revenue to pay the welfare state. [[Applauds]] Inadequate collection, i.e. the lack of public revenue, is a real machinery for destroying social cohesion because it affects more those who have fewer resources, who are the ones most in need of social spending. Therefore, our tax policy is to ensure collection sufficiency, lower taxes when the level of collection permits and do so fairly. That is what we have done with tax reform: lowering taxes to those with fewer resources. The minimum rate of 2011, 24% in the IRPF, increases in 2016 to 19%; the most favourable treatment that families have ever had in the IRPF has been given; tax burdens are lowered to SMEs and self-employed and the taxation of large taxpayers, which also fell sharply in the previous government stage. Although we agree with the proposal in substance, that is, we want to fight poverty and we want to lower taxes, we cannot agree to do so with VAT. Why? The first reason, as a tax technique, is that VAT is not an appropriate instrument for lowering prices; VAT is a neutral tax. In addition, one of the reasons they recommended imposing value added tax in Spain was the fight against tax fraud. The aim is to give transparency to the entire value chain, from the producer and distribution to the final consumer, so that anyone who wants to deduct VAT has to provide the invoices. If we do not conceive of these two essential elements of VAT, that is to say, that it is neutral and its essential purpose in the fight against fraud, then, Mr de La Izquierda Plural, we would be in another scenario. Propose a final tax on consumption as you have in countries so different from the ideology that in principle I believe you have as the United States and Japan. Secondly, it is also not appropriate to make an energy policy through VAT, to lower prices, because of the lack of equity. This has been said here and almost all the people who have preceded me in their speeches have commented on it. Value added tax is a tax of a real nature and is an objective tax, therefore it does not take into account subjective or personal characteristics. If we do not take into account the economic capacity and consumption levels, what kind of policy do you propose with a general decrease?, lower the same to which you have a villa that you have a small flat, which you have an apartment or which you have ten properties? Surely, if we accepted this proposal without reflecting on it, there would be someone who would tell us that we, by lowering VAT billing to energy and water, are helping to fill the pool of the rich. And we wouldn't like to be told this, we don't think this criticism is appropriate. Thirdly, you also do not specify the cost of collecting the proposal you are making. VAT is an essential tax, both in the Spanish budget and in the Community budget. In the Community budget, the total taxation on consumption - VAT plus excise duties - means an average of 10%, 10.7 in Spain, while the average for European countries is 13.7, then we have a gap in Spain, we have as an average lower taxation on consumption than the rest of European countries. In VAT, this gap is even greater. We have a taxation of 5.5 and the European countries of 7.1. In particular, we are the last of all European countries in terms of VAT taxation and the second in terms of total consumption taxation. VAT accounts for more than 30% of the revenue collection budget in Spain. In addition, its proposal does not take into account the environmental impact; it should be noted that it brings measures that promote consumption, an incentive to consumption of energy, transport. This has an environmental impact. It seems that this proposal would run counter to other environmental cutting proposals that your own group has put forward in this House. Therefore, a brief reference to what is the VAT rate on electricity in one country, what is the rate on water in another, because, what is the reality? The reality is that each country, within the band that allows Community legislation, adapts the reduced and super-reduced rates to those consumptions that it wants to protect. What has Spain done? The super-reduced type applies to bread, cereals, vegetables, vegetables, medicines, disabled vehicles, physically handicapped persons in terms of travel, official protective housing. This is what Spain has done. If you want to alter, modify and use the super-reduced type for other products, comment on how we do it. But what I do do is a proposal: look for a single country in Europe where the average commodity shopping cart rate is lower than in Spain. There is no European country with a lower average commodity rate than Spain. We are open to dialogue, proposals, we want to reduce poverty, we want to lower taxes, but we want to do so fairly. Of course, bringing a proposal to lower VAT, a tax that affects 30% of public revenue without a minimum analysis of what the revenue would be, seems to us to be a little superficial. So we want to fight poverty, we want to lower taxes, we want to do it fairly, but the proposal you make does not attack the bottom of the problem. We have, we have gone to the root of the problem. Why is there a high energy price? There is the high price of energy, and we have known it in this House, because in the price of energy there are costs, the so-called tolls, which represent 60%. That is to say, you want to reduce VAT, which is a very small percentage, and you say nothing of those tolls which represent 60% of the cost of energy. Even last week they brought a proposal in which they intended to raise these tolls further, specifically with regard to interruptibility. You wanted to give more aid in these cases in the production of energy. We have given transparency to the electricity bill, we have stopped the rise inertia that came every year with 7%, and we have managed to stop the rise in the energy price, even lowering it in the two-year period, 8% on average of course, and we have returned 400 million for the first time. As far as gas is concerned, we have also stabilized prices and also put a maximum price on butane candy. Is there anything more social than butane candy? Water is a municipal competence, but we have also made a hydraulic policy that takes more than 40% of the environmental budget. What is the price, for example, in the Canary Islands of the cubic meter of water, of the thousand liters? Ladies and gentlemen, EUR 1.76, less than half of what is paid in London or Paris, and less than a third of what is paid in other European cities such as Brussels and Berlin. We also have a social bonus, as it cannot be otherwise, to protect those families who are in a special situation of economic vulnerability. In short, we agree with the ultimate aim, with the appearance of the proposal that you have managed, that is, to lower taxes, yes, but we have to do it fairly, not through VAT, because VAT does not take economic capacity into account, and secondly, to protect vulnerable groups, but to do so with structural reforms that go to the bottom of the problem, such as energy reform, such as gas reform, and the reforms that the Spanish Government is introducing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Asian. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON AMENDMENT OF ACT 17/2006 OF 5 JUNE, RADIO AND TELEVISION OF STATE TITULARITY, TO RECOGNIZE THE INDEPENDENCE OF RTVE CORPORATION AND PLURALISM IN THE PARLIAMENTARY ELECTION OF THEIR BODIES. [[File number 122/000172]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u19	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Group on the amendment of Act No. 17/2006 of 5 June 2006 on State-owned Radio and Television to restore the independence of the RTVE Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. I have the floor to defend Don Germán Rodríguez's initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. From 2006 to 2012 we had in Spanish Television the freedom of the BBC. At that time we converged with the BBC and now with Telemadrid. They are not my words, but the vice president of the current information council about what Spanish Television was like three years ago, and what has happened since the arrival of the People's Party government. These are words that graphically explain how we have moved from a plural, independent and recognized public broadcaster to a corporation serving a party, with a sunk credibility and to which citizens have turned their backs massively. This involution undoubtedly has a point of inflection and a very clear point of origin: the suppression of the consensus model for the election of the councillors and the president of Spanish Radio Television by the People's Party. It is a modification that has even taken us several decades ago, because before 2006 Spanish Radiotelevision advisors could not be elected by absolute majority. In any event, it is clear that the People's Party ended in 2012 with the model introduced by the State-owned Radio and Television Act, adopted in 2006, a historic reform agreed with a large parliamentary majority, which allowed for a huge change in Spanish Radio-television: it laid the foundations and enhanced a model of professional public service for public radio and television; it modernized its management structure, adapting it to new needs; and it introduced mechanisms to ensure the independence of public television and to ensure that citizens receive accurate and impartial information, as is the case in a plural and democratic society. To this end, the government appointment of the president of the corporation, who became elected by this House by a two-thirds majority, was terminated. Not only that, but two new bodies, the Advisory Council and the Information Councils, were set up to strengthen plurality and objectivity. Today, ladies and gentlemen, what we propose with this bill is to recover nothing more or less that model that we implemented in 2006, to return to the consensus model without giving up any improvement to put an end to the popular party television that has imposed by its absolute majority. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the only objective of the decree that you adopted in 2012. We knew it then and the facts three years later give us reason and show us so much. We knew then that it was so because it was evident that none of the reasons given by Minister Soria in this rostrum was true, and it is only necessary to review the "Diary of Sessions". The minister told us that we had to pass it by decree because we had to unlock the situation of Spanish Radiotelevision, when the fact is that it was the PP that had been blocking the election of the new advisors and the president for two years. Minister Soria also said that the situation in Spanish Radio Television was unsustainable, when he was a leader in audience, had the accounts cleared, and was recognized and rewarded. I don't know what I'd say today if you had to come up to this rostrum. Also Minister Soria came to sell us that leaving Spanish Radio Television in the hands of the absolute majority of the PP you were going to improve quality and efficiency; finally, a thousand wonders. That's what sold us, but we all have in mind how the Spanish People's Party Radio Television left in 2004, with 7.5 billion debts. And, of course, the Government also told us that reform was urgent and that there was no time to seek consensus, when we all know it was false. The only urgency that existed at the time was that of the People's Party government to regain control of Spanish Radio Television. They needed to start all their propaganda machinery before what they had prepared for us: the biggest cut in rights and freedoms we have ever known in democracy. The reality is not only that the change of model has led to independence, but that the result has been overwhelming in terms of management. In less than three years, the managers you have put your finger on Spanish RadioTV have squandered the legacy they received, ended their credibility and the quality of the programming, sunk the audience and returned it to the red numbers. To see it you just have to take a brief tour of the facts and go to the data. Although you said at that time that the change of model did not imply giving up consensus, as was to be expected, the decree was adopted in May and in June you approved by your absolute majority the name of the new president, Mr González-Echenique, who brought Mr Somoano with his hand to take over the news. The new team arrived and the complaints, doubts and criticisms for manipulation began to arise, starting from the home's own professionals. The People's Parliamentary Group says that we do not give concrete examples, but we only need to review the Commission's 'Diary of Sessions': the clamorous silences on the Barcens case, the concealment of protests about cuts in health and education, Mr Cañete's business or the systematic disregard of the role of the opposition. All this has been happening and has been denouncing itself. But if you don't want us to interpret, let's go to the objective, to the data. Let's go to the information hearings to see how citizens value the credibility of the information. By the end of 2012, when the system of choice had changed for a few months and the new leaders had arrived, the Spanish Television news had already lost their leadership, and they were already in third place; they could not even save those bad data by adding the hearings of The 1 and the 24 Hour Channel. That's the reality. The truth is that it is not only about information control, it is that its management has been harmful, because at the same time you had a plan for the decapitalisation of public television. I will remember that you were first released with a cut of 200 million at the end of 2011, but it is that since then you have applied a cut of 250 million euros per year, 50% of the public service contribution to public television and radio. And of course we are at a difficult time, gentlemen of the PP, of course we are, but the question is: why has the cut in the General Administration of the State and in the public enterprises of the State been 21%, and on public radio and television has been more than double that? The reason is simple: because you do not believe in the public service of broadcasting, you do not believe in the model that launched the law of 2006. Well, with that brutal cut all this time, the ability of Spanish Radio Television to compete with the rest of the channels has been limited, and the result is in sight - let's go back to the data -: they have beat all the levels, all the indices of the worst audience that has occurred throughout the history of Spanish Television. They took Spanish Television with a cumulative audience in 2011 of 14.5%, in 2012 it was already 12.2%, in 2013 of 10.2%, and in 2014 it was 10% naked; you draw your own conclusions. These same cuts have forced the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation to systematically incur an annual deficit of more than EUR 100 million, a deficit caused by that cut and mismanagement, not by the financing model. [[The lady]] In short, Mr Echenique's balance sheet in Spanish Radiotelevision can be summarized in six words: less credibility, less audience, more debt. But the worst part is that we know that Mr Echenique did not come out for those reasons, he came out because the People's Party wanted more control. It was of no use to him that 1,500 information professionals signed a manifesto, with names and surnames, denouncing censorship and manipulation shortly after Mr Echenique left the presidency. You followed your plan and again imposed, by your absolute majority and for the second time, on the new president, Mr José Antonio Sánchez. This time you bet directly and without disguise for importing the model of Telemadrid, of Canal Nou, of the television of Castilla-La Mancha, of Mrs. De Cospedal; that is the model you wanted for Spanish Television. What did Mr. Sanchez bring? What he has not brought is that extraordinary credit that he has been telling us about for months that he requested from the Treasury, because in fact neither the Ministry of Finance has responded to him. What Mr Sánchez has brought is what the PP asked him: more wood, more control. So in three months we have seen how most of the chiefs of the area and sub-chiefs of the news were stopped, how journalists who had resigned for making black lists of the people of Spanish Radio Television who were not close to the PP were promoted, how collaborators were fired simply for solidarity with the workers, how disciplinary dismissals have been applied to journalists, and how they have been displacing the editors who are not comfortable and who do not comply with their guidelines. We have indeed observed with absolute perplexity an absolutely irrational decision, such as to remove a professional of recognized prestige, such as Asunción Gómez Bueno, from the chair of the Information Committee of the European Broadcasting Union. [[Rumors]] Yes, Mr. Moreno, that's what you've done, and the only explanation you've given is that you were a person who wasn't close to the address. So often criteria of professionalism! [[Rumors]] It is no wonder that European television has been put to the head, and has written a letter to the President. So, as you see, everything very professional, everything very independent. To end the last episode: the hiring of 11 journalists for Spanish Television news without taking into account the database, without taking into account the company committee; journalists who curiously come mostly clearly from media with right-wing positions. Do not be mistaken, because we do not classify journalists according to the environment in which they have worked, the black lists are for you; the problem is that it is hard to believe or nobody believes that among the thousands of Spanish Radio-television professionals, among the thousands of people in the database have been unable to find people qualified for those functions, or that they did not come from those clearly conservative means, not one; that is what is not understood. And what is not welcome, as has been denounced by the information council, with which we have just held a meeting, and with which the rest of the House's groups are going to hold meetings, is that these professionals are being used to build a parallel drafting in the service of the interests of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, all this has led to the change in the model of choice that you made by decree, and what the managers that you have promoted and that you have proposed, by your majority, the People's Group have done. As I was telling you all this shows that the change of model in 2006 responded to a single reason, rather to a problem, and it is that the PP does not know how to govern without putting the public media at its disposal, at its service. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today we are calling for the support of most of the groups in the House - we know that the PP is not going to support it in all likelihood - to return to the situation established by the 2006 law as a starting point, we are not saying that it is the idyllic or the perfect one, but that we are open to all proposals for improvement, but on the basis of that model. For this we ask you to support the return to the reinforced majority model for the election of the members of the board of directors and of the president of Spanish Radiotelevision, that the board be re-constituted of 12 members, including 2 representatives of the workers, because you have directly cut off all the dialogue with them, and do not be mistaken, do not come again with the demagogy of wages. We can talk and talk about pay, because probably the model that was set in 2006, in the light of how the situation is now, it's not the right one, it's not the one we have to have, but let's talk about it to adapt it. Finally, we call for the election of a new council and a new president with this strengthened two-thirds majority. In this sense, I insist that it is an open proposal for dialogue with the other groups, open to debate on other formulas that strengthen and better guarantee the independence of representatives in the corporation, because in that the Socialist Group will always be ready for dialogue and agreement. I'm finishing up. Unfortunately, we know that the People's Party has neither been nor is going to be working today to return to that model of consensus that allowed Spanish Broadcasting to achieve the highest levels of independence, quality, and recognition that it has had throughout the democratic stage. Today, they will reobsess our ears by saying that it is now that there is objectivity, that it is now that there is pluralism, and that the Government is fully committed to pluralism in the public media, as the Vice-President said last Friday without blushing. I have to tell you that when I heard those statements the first thing that came to my mind was the last novel by Javier Cercas, The Impostor, where the author says that the good lies, the ones that really achieve the goal and are maintained in time, are those that have to be built with at least half truths. The first thing I thought was that this is not the case with the PP, because to say at this point that the Government is committed to plurality and pluralism in the public media and in Spanish Radio-television is that it does not reach half the truth. Perhaps you are accustomed to repeating slogans, but believe me that you have long lost the ability to deceive anyone. As I said to you, we are aware that asking the PP to support this initiative will be unproductive, but at least I will ask you today, and that they respect public radio and television professionals and their representative bodies; that they respect and respect the right they have to defend their work and public service, the right they have to defend rigour and impartiality in the news, and the right they have to denounce the cuts and how you are decapitalizing public television. I am very afraid, gentlemen of the PP, that the problem is as follows, and that is that you have not just understood one thing, that you can impose manipulation on Spanish Radio Television, but you cannot bring back Mr Urdaci's times, because the professionals of public television and public radio now know what it is to work independently, without political pressure and at the service of the citizens, because there was a law and a government, the former, that allowed it, that made it possible. And they know those professionals that Spanish Television and National Radio can compete with the rest of the television channels and the rest of the radios, because they did and they did until you came to the government. All this is also known by the citizens, and the only ones who apparently do not want to know or have not yet heard are you, gentlemen of the PP. That is why - and I am finishing, Mr President - neither the workers, nor the groups in this House, nor the citizens will stand idly by while you remain committed to putting Spanish Television and National Radio at the service of the interests of the People's Party. And that is why, sooner rather than later, even though today they reject this initiative, we will again have a model of consensus to elect the representatives of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u21	Mr. Rodriguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u22	...to take into account the plurality of the House. We will certainly have that plurality, gentlemen of the PP, and we will see it again in a very short time, the little left for you in the government. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Position fixing. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Building the prestige of a medium costs a lot of effort, years of work, of independence, of believing that a public service is of all citizens, of those who vote for you and of those who do not. Destroying that prestige costs very little, and that's what you've done in three years; what you did on Canal Nou or what you've done on Telemadrid, because you don't believe in public services. You don't believe in citizens. You do not believe in the independence of the public media. You believe that Spanish Radio Television is your cortijo; the cortijo of PP. And in his court, they do what they want. That I can't choose who I want? Well, I change the law. Neither tic-tac nor pleats-plas; directly catacroc, catacroc; decree-law on a Friday and roll of absolute majority the following Thursday, and I already have a friend director; friend of the soul; that's what it is. The fact that by conquering the absolute majority a law governing public television and radio can be amended in order to make use of it for spurious purposes shows the weaknesses of this model of State and the need to establish the most effective protection mechanisms of our democracy. Many professional workers are day-to-day denouncing the gross manipulation of public television and radio content by this Government. And it is those same professionals who demand help to put an end to the death wound in the credibility of that house, which is everyone's house, because we all fund it with money from everyone. The audience of the news is sinking. People abandon a chain that wants to manipulate, cheat. I know what I'm saying; I come from a land where manipulation reached unsuspected limits. In Valencia there were lists of forbidden words; there was a ferret control of every news directed by corrupt people; there were regrettable episodes of sexual abuse; there was a television where the president of the Association of Metro Victims was never, never, ever invited to speak; a television that closed when hardly anyone saw it. We must have mechanisms to protect the citizens of governments who, under the umbrella of the absolute majority, dismantle public spaces for debate, reflection and information. I'm done. That is why, while the proposal for a law we are debating is a start, and that is why we are going to adopt it, the debate to be addressed is much greater; it is up to the great problem that we must face those who truly believe in a word, for me very important, those who believe in democracy. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u25	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Bosch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u26	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this bill, which seeks the plurality of Spanish Broadcasting, because it is not now, it is not plural, and many things show it. It is shown by the ratings, which have collapsed. People don't care about such a skewered TV. This is demonstrated by the disenchantment of the workers, who are good professionals and who are constantly denouncing the partiality and limitations imposed within the house. It is also demonstrated by cases such as the expulsion of Cristina Puig as moderator of El Debat, and other cases that my colleagues have previously also cited and commented on. Likewise from my own experience - let me be immodest - because I have found myself in debates in which there is a server against seven or eight, including the moderator who also passes to the attack. In this sense there is a study that has recently been carried out that is very clear regarding the coverage of Spanish Radiotelevision media about the 9-N vote. [[Mr Bosch i Pascual shows a graph]] Tertullians in favour: zero; Tertullians against: all. That is why you complain about the public media in Catalonia, but the proportion in the same case of the 9 November consultation in favour and against is much more balanced. [[Mr Bosch i Pascual shows another graph]] But also when the Tertullians speak against the 9-N - high to the small detail - they are speaking against voting, of a vote. One hundred per cent of Tertulians in Spanish Radiotelevision are against democracy. Don't you think it's serious? Don't you think it's troubling? I do think so, I think so and a lot. They have therefore turned a public television into an impudent medium. More than a TV this looks like the NO-DO, all they need is to go back, at the time of black and white. Any day we'll find ourselves on TV and watching it broadcast again in black and white. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u27	Thank you, Mr. Bosch. For the same group, Mr. Larreina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an important debate, because the role of the public media in ensuring plurality is one of the key indicators for determining the quality of a democracy. I have to make it absolutely clear that the quality of democracy in the Spanish State is very low, because the public media are not guaranteeing equal opportunities in access to the media of all political forces, nor are they guaranteeing plurality and treating the general public as minors, because they do not let him hear everything he has to hear; they do not let him hear all the voices, only those you think he has to hear because they are minors, and I think that is a very serious matter. I will give you an example of what is happening to my political group, which I believe is very significant. Amaiur, who is the first political force of representation in the whole of Euskal Herria in this House, in the whole of the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre, and who is the fifth political force in this House in number of seats, is missing in the public media on Spanish Television, totally disappeared. I don't say that, the data sent to us by the Spanish Government and Television are saying that by answering our questions. I'm going to give you meaningful data. In the first part of the legislature in The debate of The 1, of thirty-one guests: Zero of Amaiur; in The night in 24 Hours, of one hundred twenty-one: Zero of Amaiur; in The Spanish Television Breakfasts, of more than three hundred and fifty guests - who are the number of members of this House - at least seven would have to correspond to Amaiur: zero. That's in the first part of this legislature. In the second part, despite our protests to the board of directors in writing, the answer has been null and void. This will end up in the courts with prevarication sentences for the members of the board of directors for failing to fulfil their mission, because of eighty-nine guests in the second part of the legislature, also zero from Amaiur. This clearly demonstrates that you, who are so filled with the issue of the defence of the rule of law, of your Constitution, are continually violating that Constitution which you are so much talking about, of your Constitution, with this exclusion and clearly discriminatory treatment in all Spanish Television programs. You are making a flagrant violation of the fundamental rights and duties set out in article 20 of your Constitution. Article 20.3 clearly states: Significant social and political groups shall be guaranteed access to the social media dependent on the State or any public body. And they are also making a flagrant violation of both articles 2 and 3 of the State-owned Radio and Television Act and articles 16 and 20, which refer to the board of directors. That is why we say this with total clarity, you are doing a weak favour for democracy, you are scorning the entire citizenship of the Spanish State, which has the right - for example in the case of Euskal Herria - to know directly, and then they will already judge whether or not you agree, what a majority force believes in Euskal Herria. You - and I conclude with this, Madam President - are precisely preventing progress on the path of political normalization, reconciliation, and that seems to us to be very serious. That is why we say quite clearly that we are going to vote in favour of this initiative, although we do not agree with the specific text, among other things because I believe that it does not address the fundamental problem, which is democratic culture, and because in the end it gives the impression that it is a take away from me.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u29	Mr. Larreina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u30	I'm done, Madam President. I believe that the fundamental thing is to ensure, for example, that all the political forces of the Congress of Deputies are present by law on the board of directors. That would ensure plurality and advance the democratic quality of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u31	Thank you, Mr. Larreina. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Having heard the speeches of those who preceded me, I think that the People's Party should more or less know where the criticism goes, and that we all agree that we are here in the same place should give it what to think. The Socialist Group is presenting us today with a proposal for a law on the amendment of Law 17/2006, which in some way tells us to go back to the law, to repeal Royal Decree 15/2012. My group agrees to repeal that royal decree-law and also in part to return to the same terms as Law 17/2006, although not in all, but let's say that we could make a collective effort and say: let's repeal this royal decree-law so that we can get back to work in a much better way. The Socialist Group's colleague who has spoken has cited a lot of problems, all of them real, but not all of the problems that the Socialist Group has cited derive directly from the implementation of this royal decree; many of these problems come from a long time ago and have little to do with some of them with the type of election or the type of board of directors. That this royal decree or the way to choose the president or members has helped make this worse? Also, but it's not the only cause. Having said that, I would like to recall that our position was critical at the time, even when the 2006 Act was passed, but it was much more critical when the Royal Decree-Law was passed, which we voted clearly against, because we moved from a two-thirds majority - which had a significant silence - to an absolute majority. We are more in agreement with the first, of course. Basically, it is about moving from a PSOE-PP majority to only a majority of the People's Party, a majority based on an arbitral and unilateral decision of the People's Party, which does not have to question or consult with anyone; that is the big difference. Did the People's Party really believe, when it argued the criteria for which it changed at the time in 2012, what it proposed? In other words, in purity and in any electoral situation and with any composition of the House do you believe what you say or only believe it when you have absolute majority? This really is the crux of the matter. Before how was he chosen? Before it was elected directly: the Government said who had to be the Director General. There was a new law, but it should also be mentioned that the first autonomous Parliament that proposed that was the Basque, which decided that the general management of Euskal Irrati Telebista had to be decided by absolute majority in the Basque Parliament, when until then the Basque Government had the power to appoint the Director General. From there came later the following laws - I don't know if there are still some that are applying them -; they are being modified, some say two-thirds... You also have to understand that not all majorities are the same, but the point is to know what kind of majority we're talking about, because somebody used to say that about taking you off to put me on. I think it is important to know what we mean by a majority, because - I am going to say this to you uncritically, as you gentlemen of the Socialist Party said - you always appeal to consensus, not only here but everywhere, but the Socialist Party understands by consensus something that happens whenever the Socialist Party is there. That's what they mean by consensus. For neither in the former law nor in this nor in any other, nor when you two decided, did you count on us; I don't know if you did it with other parties. You understand that there is consensus whenever the Socialist Party is and whether or not the others are is no longer important. Therefore, you will also have to apply the criterion of what consensus we want. Consent or that the Socialist Party is here? That is why we believe that we would have many things to criticize if it were to be taken into consideration. We agree with this bill and we will vote in favour of it because we believe that issues can be brought forward and amended, although we do not agree with the whole text they are proposing. It is clear that the current situation of Spanish Broadcasting since the implementation of Royal Decree-Law 15/2012 is much worse than the previous one. The People's Party changed so that it could have two objectives. First, they put a president applying the criteria that marked that royal decree-law - which they decided for them with their majority - with two objectives: to heal the entity economically and to control it informationally. They were disappointed because they didn't get one thing or the other. Someone from your party must have said this sentence: With this Spanish Radio Television we cannot go to the elections. That's why they changed horses in the middle of the race, because the economic disaster was total, and because they couldn't control it economically, at least to see if they could do it informatively. Faced with the elections, Gonzalez-Echenique went and brought the most of the PP that was on the way at the time, which was Don José Antonio Sánchez. I told him, so I have no objection to saying it now. When I asked him, why do you think he's been elected president of the corporation? Well, I'll answer it. You have been chosen because, from among the professionals there were, you were the most of PP. Legally, no doubt, but by imposition, you changed the organization of the council. You changed the organization of the council, and all this in substance to what has led us to is - objective data - to loss of audience and informational leadership, things I had before; nor do I think I had it before only because the system of choice was that, no, but this is a situation of interventionism. We all know the complaints that have been made, the criticisms that have been made, the unsustainable situation that some collectives and workers of Spanish Radiotelevision are having, protests from large sectors of the professionals for truly denouncing situations, changes and incorporations in jobs and in leaderships that we cannot understand and I believe that neither are you who you are; moreover, labor conflictivity and an economic situation for nothing solved. I could quote a lot of questions. Comrade Rafael Larreina has cited some discriminations that occur, with which I agree, but also others; for example, they have an obligation to ensure, according to the law, the languages of the Spanish State. I ask the president why he did not comply with the TV Act, which says that the Basque, for example, has a presence. He told me that's what the ETB was for. I already know what the ETB is for. That's why he was created. Thanks to the creation of the ETB! But you have an obligation to comply with a law, and you don't. In conclusion, we will vote in favour of taking this proposal into consideration, especially because we are in favour of repealing this royal decree-law. We know about mathematics and we know that this is not going to happen, but at least have the clear political criterion to say: we want it to be taken into consideration because in this way we allow ourselves to incorporate, modify, add and improve the law that the Socialist Party intends to establish, because we do not like it either. As long as the debate is opened, there will be incorporation. The current situation of Spanish Broadcasting is due, although not in its entirety, to the application of the Royal Decree; not entirely, but partly due to the way in which you have understood that a public audiovisual communication entity such as Spanish Broadcasting should be directed. It has been crawling for many years and nothing has been solved. What is needed is a new model, regardless of how the president or the members of the board of directors are elected. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u33	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u34	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation with regard to public broadcasting is of real calamity, of real agony. He's lost a massive audience. From 2011 until here, in four years, one out of every three viewers who followed public television has stopped following it, stopped tuned the public channel, and from being a reference in the news, the newscasts have spent a few months in third place. He until a few months ago president of the Public Agency RTVE, González-Echenique, had only one goal as president, which was to wipe public accounts. It did not succeed and in fact this year's deficit is another EUR 60 million and the accumulated debt of RTVE is 800 million. In view of the fact that it was not possible to wipe out those public accounts, the People's Party Government decided a few months ago to put a director, José Antonio Sánchez, at the head of public television, who will not be able to solve the problem of accounts, but who will end the task of turning public television into a party television. For that you amended the law at the beginning of the legislature, for that you carried out that legal change that allows, with the sole votes of an absolute majority, to elect a president of Spanish Radiotelevision. Mr Sánchez's appointment culminates what today is one of the greatest dramas we experience in terms of the media, and it can be said that Spain does not have a public television worthy of that name, nor do we therefore have as citizens independent information, truthful information, quality information, impartial information in short. Everyone has denounced it, everyone sees it, except the People's Party. That is what all the parliamentary groups in this House are saying; that is what the professionals of the house, who are to be heard, even the Council of Europe is saying with concern. There is no information programming that flies above party demands, which are the only criteria you impose. They are therefore depriving citizens of the elements of judgment necessary to form a criterion and to make informed decisions as citizens, which is one of their main rights in a democracy. That fundamental mission of a public television does not fulfill Spanish Television. That is why we say that Spain currently lacks public television. The Greek Government closed it. He needed to square the accounts and shut it down directly to save himself those millions of euros that cost him. Somehow it's a more honest solution, because the Greeks stopped having a public television and also stopped paying for it. What you are doing to the Spaniards is that they do not have a public television worthy of that name but that they pay you a party television. In other words, we are paying them among all their propaganda apparatus. I wonder: with everything you've saved in taxes by reforming your seats with black money, couldn't you have paid for a party TV yourself? Didn't they have enough? With what they accumulate in their box B they don't have to pay for a propaganda device? Now we see that that legal reform they did at the beginning of the legislature responded to the beginning of their little generosity, they arranged everything to make us all pay with our taxes their party television. The damage that your legal reform has caused to public television is in sight. I have already mentioned the data, which are eloquent on their own. Someone with the brains of a mosquito would do better information than those who are doing Spanish TV right now, particularly after the last appointments and after putting Mr. Gundín in the Spanish TV news address. Its purpose is obvious: to enchant also the brains of the Spaniards who watch public television. Luckily, they didn't make it. You, who are used to taking citizens for idiots, believed that they would remain, as in Matrix, connected their brains to the trash you give them for every intellectual pasture on public television. However, citizens flee from that caspian television. So, they didn't get out of the operation, they didn't work, they quit, they didn't work. Citizens flee public television and will not be able to manipulate them in that way. First you have made an anti-political television, trying to expel from programming the debates, trying to avoid the economic crises, the problems that worry the citizens, but, since they have not come out, now the citizens are informed by other means and now that you know I have to give them a news: there is an object called remote control by which the citizens can change channels and stop swallowing the bazophy that you want them to swallow. Having said that, the reform proposed by the Socialist Group and which wants to return to a previous stage is simply impossible. Heraclitus said that one cannot bathe twice in the same river; one cannot have twice in the same public television. If the current model is a single party obsolete model, its model is a bipartisan model. It is still paradoxical that when bipartisanism is sinking more politically and socially you intend to resurrect it on television, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. Of course, it is not the UPyD model, the model you propose is not ours. But I even have a lot of doubts that it's yours, that it's the model of the Socialist Party. In Andalusia, where you can see in situ and in a real and tangible way what is the public television model of the Socialist Party, the news agenda is the agenda of the Andalusian president. This is the way in which it is also seen how a public television is used as a party television, it is another way of insulting citizens. The most blatant censorship we have suffered - and I do not want to talk about our parliamentary group because I believe that public television is not a television of the parties, it is a television of the citizens, something that is very difficult to understand, even of the citizens who do not have a partisan view of life - where we have been most censured on Andalusian television, on Canal Sur, where they have only begun to talk about us in the news following a ruling by the Electoral Board. That is censorship: obviating a parliamentary group, obviating a political party and forcing the Electoral Board to talk about that political party in the news. That happened in our country, that happened in Canal Sur, where the news directors had not learned that there was a party called UPyD, a party that has a project for Andalusians that respects them intellectually and respects their intelligence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, we ask you to stop paying for your party televisions with the money of the Spanish. All right, PSOE channel emits, PP channel emits or even PPSOE channel emits, but you pay for it with your money, do not make us pay for it to others, because this country does not deserve banana public television, nor the autonomous or national television offered to them. I insist, public television is done by the professionals, let the professionals work, and it is for the citizens, not for the parties. We firmly believe in public television as a basic tool of democracy. Without independent, high-quality public television, at the service of citizens and at the service of information, we will never have a high-quality democracy. Our public television model, which is the BBC model at the end of the day, forces the president and RTVE council to be chosen from among accredited professionals with a proven track record, shielding their independence so that they can work in peace. Let us leave the media professionals to work in peace. Public radio and television are the most basic tool for political participation and accountability, let public television flourish and democracy flourish. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Lozano. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u36	Thank you, Madam President. One of the main problems, not the only one, that affects public broadcasting in Spain, Spanish Broadcasting, is the lack of credibility, the blatant manipulation that is suffering. We are not just saying this, all the groups in the House are saying this afternoon, other parties outside this House are saying this, the professionals in the house say that today they had an assembly to talk about the last episode of information manipulation with the hiring of eleven professionals from other media who are hired for the house when there are enough staff in it. It is vox populi, it is a cross-sectional denunciation the manipulation that is exercised from Spanish Radiotelevision. The only political force that does not see it, the only one that does not see that the king is naked is the People's Parliamentary Group. The former socialist government introduced the bill, which later became law 17/2006, on state-owned television broadcasting, in which article 11 came the proposal to elect the president of the Spanish Broadcasting Council by a two-thirds majority of this House, and the People's Parliamentary Group did not introduce any amendment to that feature that the president of the council should be elected by two-thirds of this House. He did amend other parts of the article, and specifically other parts of article 11, but not this one. The People's Party was very pleased with the innovation proposed by the Socialist Party and which we share, although it may not be the best. We can take superior armor measures, as the spokesman who preceded me in speaking on behalf of UpyD has just said, we could even resort to the Greek system of drawing lots for office, but the People's Party came along very well. He did not amend it and then ended up with the Socialist Party an chairman of the council at that time. He was very pleased with the change in the rules of the game because it gave him the capacity to decide on the proposal that until then was private of the Government of Spain. But when the tornadoes changed and the People's Party had an absolute majority and it was the Socialist Party that passed to the opposition, it was no longer worth the same law that had not been amended, the same rules of the game, which is what we all expect, that we all respect, the rules of the game with which we equip ourselves. When you changed and had absolute majority you were no longer worth the rules of the previous game and you changed them and removed the Royal Decree-Law 15/2012, which you have argued was because of a situation of involution, of the blockade and so on. But you also played the block when governing the Socialist Party; that's what it is about when you demand a qualified two-thirds majority of the House to choose a delicate high responsibility that has to have some independence. It certainly doesn't have to be the guarantor of the bipartisan game. It would be better to look for other arguments and other means for the plurality of what is within the House and what is outside the House, because Spain and the Spanish are quite, fortunately, more than what is in this House. However, the People's Party was not worth it, changed the rules of the game and unilaterally appointed a president of the council who failed to achieve his goals. Other speakers in the debate have explained this very well from this rostrum. Mr González-Echenique arrived with two major objectives: to start putting the information and information that came out of the house on the street and to start putting the finances on the street, the other big problem that Spanish public television has. One did not get it, which was the topic of finance - its successor neither - but apparently the People's Party did not like it enough how the Spanish Television news services were operating manipulated and had to put there the great muñitor of the big monopolies, who has destroyed the credibility of Madrid's television broadcasting, who comes to bring and has brought and is developing in the Spanish public television broadcasting the Telemadrid model, which has led the workers to declare themselves in open rebellion, to be shut down, to meet in assemblies and to denounce, not only the workers but also various sectors - the social networks, this Saturday Weekly Report, the other day also on the 24 Hours Channel in an interview -, the manipulation that exists in Spanish Radiotelevision; manipulation that has a clear origin and is the appointment of the president of the council, a president who has arrived with the function of ensuring that the version of the People's Party is the version that will give Spanish public television. To correct this, we are going to vote in favour, as was to be expected, of the proposed law brought by the Socialist Group to the House, because we understand that it would be good for public broadcasting and very good for Spanish democracy that not only could the president of the council be appointed by an absolute majority of the majority of the House - it would be good to work on improving the legal text so that the council would be as plural as possible - but it would be essential at this time, as a basic democratic hygiene measure, that the president of the council would be elected by a qualified majority of the House, at least by two thirds. At least we could share that. However, that would not solve all the problems of Spanish public television. I have said this, the other big problem is financial, the economic problem that drags; a problem that is not contemplated in this proposal of law; a problem that will have to be entered at some point, in which we also have some divergence with the Socialist Group, which was the one who centered or who elevated the current model to the rank of law and who, for example, left the so-called advertising cake in the hands of private televisions and who took part of that cake away from public broadcasting. My group does not share this abandonment in principle; it is a television model that is respectable and that can be viable to some extent, provided that the Spanish Government compensates for losses, deviations and so on. But the situation is that the Government of Spain is only concerned with telling the People's Parliamentary Group to whom it has to put at the head of the Spanish public television when the previous director fails because he does not comply well with his precepts, and what the Government of Spain does not comply with is to put on the table the money that is necessary for the Spanish public television broadcasting so that it does not come into question the dissolution of the council, for example, or to cover the structural deficit that exceeds 100 million euros per year. From our parliamentary group - I have already said this - we are going to vote in favour of this proposal for a law tabled by the Socialist Group, in the awareness that it does not solve all the problems, that the problems of financing public television must also be tackled urgently, but at least it is something basic and necessary that, in order to correct the problem of serious lack of credibility that public television has, the procedure for electing the president and the Spanish public television council must be changed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u37	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mrs Surroca. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already announced that our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of the Socialist Group's proposal for a law being taken into consideration. We must say that we do not share the substance of the proposal that is before us today, but in fact it is not the appropriate procedural time to discuss the exact content of this initiative. In the event that it prospered, it would be later and we would already rule on each of the parties, on the content, on the proposal for a law. In fact, the Socialist Group claims that this initiative will partially restore the situation that existed before Royal Decree-Law 15/2012 of 20 April. It does so in two specific aspects, one with regard to the system of election of the members of the board of directors of Spanish Radiotelevision and also seeks to recover the composition prior to that royal decree-law. Therefore, the aspects that such a proposal would not change would be, on the one hand, the incompatibility regime of the members of the Spanish Broadcasting Council and not the exclusive dedication of the president, as well as the current pay regime. In short, that there is a considerable part of Royal Decree-Law 15/2012 that would be maintained entirely by the content of the proposed law that the Socialist Group defends today. Here we have to remember that our parliamentary group at the time precisely supported Royal Decree 15/2012 and we did so because we considered that it was absolutely necessary to unblock the situation suffered by the governing body of the public body. We understood that there was a blockade, that this affected the public service of Spanish Radiotelevision and that it was absolutely necessary to unlock that situation precisely for the sake of the public service. That blockade was motivated, as you will recall, by the inability of the two large groups in this House to agree on the appointment of the members of the board of directors of Spanish Broadcasting. In short, what our parliamentary group did was a contribution to overcoming that unlocking. However, as I said earlier, that royal decree involved other changes that today the spokesman of the proposing group has never called into question. In short, there are aspects of that real decree which seems to be that the Socialist Group considers or sees with good eyes, although today it has not explained it directly and we assume it because in its proposal nothing says to the contrary. From this perspective we understand in Convergència i Unió that there are aspects of that royal decree that have led to some improvement in the governing body of Spanish Radiotelevision, we insist, because not even the Socialist Group itself, the proposing group, today has questioned it. On the other hand, there is another aspect, such as the system of election of members and the composition that is called into question. What is the approach of our parliamentary group? We believe that it is necessary to open a debate on what is the situation at the moment of the public body, what is the situation of Spanish Radiotelevision. Is the service being provided the one that our society needs? Is that the public television model we want right now? Is the model we're offering right now the best? If we value what has happened over these more than two years of effective royal decree-law we understand that there are situations that are very improveable. Therefore, from that perspective in Convergence i Unió we are open to making contributions and to open that debate in relation to the current model. During these two and a half years situations have occurred that have at least surprised us and others have criticized and openly denounced them in the Spanish Radiotelevision Control Commission. I can refer to the most recent cases. For example, it is surprising that the press leader of the Popular Party in Catalonia has been appointed as the new director of Spanish Radio Television in Sant Cugat. This is a very clear example. Were there not people within the public body who were better suited to hold that position? Without questioning the professionalism of that person, within Radiotelevision Spain as a whole - I no longer speak simply of Spanish Radiotelevision in Catalonia - was there anyone more suitable to occupy that job than the press chief of the People's Party in Catalonia? It has also been mentioned by other speakers who have preceded me in the use of the word the lack of plurality of Tertullians in the different Spanish Television programs and also in radio chats; the dismissal even of certain people who were in charge of emblematic programs - now a few weeks ago we knew that a journalist, Cristina Puig - had been removed; or the opening of disciplinary files to certain journalists for collaborating in some media. In addition, we believe that the informative treatment of relevant acts that have taken place in Catalonia has also been scandalous. I will recall the informational treatment that was given to the Diada on September 11 by Spanish Radiotelevision or - speaking of this particular case - the coverage that took place by Radio 4. In short, over these more than two and a half years there have been very critical episodes and from our parliamentary group we have denounced it in the Joint Commission of Control of Spanish Radio Television. This initiative presented to us today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group can be a good opportunity to open the debate and address all the problems that are being dragged by Spanish Radio Television, because we are not talking about this being the only problem on our public television. As has also been said by other speakers, we have a major problem with the funding model. All of this is having serious consequences on the levels of the audience and, ultimately, on the public service that is being provided to citizens. To conclude, I reiterate that in Convergence i Unió we believe that in Spanish Radio Television has to be greatly improved by making progress in the necessary independence and plurality that should be guaranteed in all public media. From here on, in the event that this initiative succeeds, our parliamentary group would make concrete contributions to improve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by highlighting what others hate, which is nothing other than freedom of the press and freedom of expression. I want to sympathize with the media, especially the ABC newspaper and the EFE Agency, for the defense they are making of the information they are trying to silence those who do not believe in democracy and the rule of law and only understand blackmail as a form of political action. [[Applauds]] Having said that, this proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the RTVE Corporation has an appearance, that is, a purely instrumental clothing in the form of a pretext or excuse and a true purpose very different from the objective figure. The appearance is that of a normative reform of the Law 17/2006, of 5 June, of the radio and television of state ownership, something like a kind of operation Socialist Anoranza, that would pretend to put the RTVE Corporation back to the point where it has worked worse in all its already long history, at the point where the RTVE Corporation suffered the most serious and most harmful institutional paralysis that can be imagined, the institutional and executive paralysis that occurred since the summer of 2011, which lasted eleven months and which unfortunately confirmed the insurmountable blockade to which the law led us. That is why Law 17/2006 had to be amended, and it was not, as it says in the explanatory statement of this proposal, one of the first measures taken by the current Government, since the Royal Decree-Law is of 20 April 2012; even in that they are mistaken and see that it was the easiest. The law had to be amended because you irresponsibly refused to agree on any appointment on Spanish Radio-television; you had to change the law to get out of a dead end in which we were then and in which you want to get us back in right now. On the other hand, it goes from 9 to 12 councillors again, which is the second Gordian knot of the proposal of law, and must have for the socialist group some miraculous advantage or a prodigious effect that we fail to discover, except that just as in 2011 they denied the economic crisis now they are not able to assume either the convenience of a composition of the board of directors of smaller and more austere RTVE. This is only the formal appearance of the proposed law. At this point the parliamentary election of the president and councillors of the RTVE Corporation by an absolute majority when two thirds are not reached in a first vote - something that the law itself provides for in the fourth transitional provision - prevents a harmful interinity like that which was lived for almost a year. In turn, the reduction in the number of councillors or the abolition of their salaries, as an effort and example of austerity, in line with the times of deep economic crisis that we have experienced, do not constitute an alarming problem or a social concern so considerable as to pose an initiative of this kind, nothing more and nothing less than a proposal for a law, which in any case would only cause old and already solved problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the real purpose of this bill is another; this has become clear in the defence that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has just made of it, joining the choir, campaigning, looking for a loophole to attack the government, assuming that this will give them some political gain. For a moment I thought that the Socialist Party was going to ask with this initiative for the reform of the law to elect the president of the RTVE Corporation in primary, but of course, once you have changed your own system for Madrid, it is logical that you prefer the finger; that is, listening to whom you decide. I apologize for my doubt, which has already been sufficiently clarified. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] As I said, the real purpose is to entangle, make noise, disqualify and manipulate the situation of Spanish Radiotelevision, that is to say, to do what the socialists know best; I have to recognize without caps that these things border them. The Socialist Group is recording the bill in October last year in order to have a parliamentary alibi when the time is right. It is legitimate to do so, everyone will know what their priority is in this House, and it is also legitimate to blame them. The moment chosen to get into the car of furious and unleashed criticism that, among others, they themselves have contributed to generating and feeding in Spanish Radiotelevision is precisely this; it is not by chance, as everyone can understand. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no parallel editors in the RTVE Corporation; this would require a thousand journalists to be hired. By the way, this is what the socialists did after the ERE which expelled 4,150 workers in 2006 for the modest cost to the public treasury of 1.5 billion euros, and it is what they did also in 1982 when they won for the first time and multiplied by two the staff of Spanish Radiotelevision. [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] What is at Radiotelevision Española is an interested, sectarian, senseless, biased and reckless controversy aimed exclusively at attacking the professionals, to pressure them in an intolerable way, to restrict their freedom, to intimidate them and to hinder all trance their work. What there is is a premeditated, planned, calculated and deliberate strategy to mistreat, run over, discredit and manipulate Spanish Radiotelevision by those who can't stand it, who don't even go through their heads but they are the ones who camp in their width and control the company; they are not the ones who decide who and how to hire; they are not the ones who organize and distribute the pluses and the prebends, the same ones that disappear as if by barricades when it is the Socialist Party that rules. When that happens, there are external recruitments everywhere; there are very wide corridors for those who are not considered from their rope; there is fierce control and without the slightest discrepancy of information; there is high political and governmental follow-up to unheard-of levels; there is uniformity, with capricious reward, or disparity, with severe punishment. I mean, what there was before and today there isn't. In Spanish Radiotelevision there are no parallel editorials. There are slogans, there are phrases made, a lot, a lot of demagogy and even matonism, as some recently demonstrated by leaving a hanging rope at a journalist's table. There are stories and trajectories that are altered by desire. There are those who distribute the cards of what is right and what is wrong, without the least modestness and without any authority to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing is dismantled on Spanish Radio-television. It often seems to them that it bothers them that this is so and that it pulls them out of their boxes, that they do not fit the only catastrophic argument they know. What are we going to do to him! That's the truth. In Spanish Radiotelevision there is a template that has not suffered - see - a single drop in the entire economic crisis, possibly the only public or private medium of communication in the whole world that can say it. By the way, curious unions who fiercely attack the new recruitments in Spanish Radiotelevision and are muted by the abundant and sounding dismissals in some other media with which they so much tune. The world upside down. It is also curious that those who entered, as they entered in their day, in Spanish Radio Television now give the door in their noses to anyone who goes to work in the corporation and is not his friend. Very curious everything, ladies and gentlemen. Neither independence, quality, nor pluralism, nor even the audience depend on Law 17/2006. History has tried to prove it. They depend on the will and vocation of the professionals and on the will and vocation of those who direct them at every moment; also on the resources that do not provide a painful socialist law on funding radio and television. In Spain, several electoral processes will be held this year. As in all the great information quotes our country has experienced, Spanish Radio Television will again be the reference for citizens for their quality, their independence, their rigour and their pluralism. Its social influence and raison d'être as an essential public service depend precisely on these attributes, and its leadership in this field will not undermine the sophlamas, rallies or slogans, however aggressive and thick they may be. Although it is also true that for that leadership to be lost, in order to try to have Spanish Radiotelevision project the worst public image, so that it has no future, there are those who are truly committed, foolishly committed, we would say better, to discredit and insult with such a bellicose language as rancid and inappropriate, to their professionals and to their activity, to whom they denigrate and portray with an absolute lack of respect, as simple sheep of a flock, to invent what is necessary in order to sustain the canteen. As we know, there are no barriers or limits to this crazy strategy. If in addition to the staff we must insult 150 Tertullians who participate in the Spanish Radiotelevision news programs, representing the most varied media, because they are insulted and already are. If you have to distort reality - not to lay off, you could read on a trade union banner when there has not been one - because it is distorted and something else. If we have to do demagogy, it is done, and if we have to manipulate the facts, they are manipulated, that for this mission they are true artists. Why don't they tell the Tertullians to their faces, in the interviews they do on Spanish Radio Television, that they are mere government associates? Why do you not refuse to go to the Spanish Radio Television news programmes if you only serve the People's Party? Why do they demand more presence in Spanish Radiotelevision to sometimes support their own leadership if they consider that in Spanish Radiotelevision everything is pro-government and lacks any credibility? Why if everything is censorship and manipulation thank, hypocritically, the interviews and interventions in Spanish Radiotelevision? Why are they so incoherent? Why don't you start by telling your partner, Mr. Gordo, that yesterday he lost respect for the professionals from his own blog? That is the true reality of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I finish where I started. This proposal of law has an appearance - little worked, everything has to be said - of short and sticky, but it is only an excuse to attack Spanish Radiotelevision from this rostrum; surely, to see if Mr Sánchez gets a headline at the rallies, even at the cost of public television. Surely you will be very grateful to the inflamed guardians of populist essences in Spanish Radiotelevision. I doubt that, beyond this thanks, my colleague, your initiative serves no good, as it serves no good the harassment and the pressure with which you want to intimidate the professionals of Spanish Radiotelevision. We'll always defend them...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u41	Mr. Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u42	I'm done, Madam President. And when we talk about manipulation, look in the hemerotecs. We will always tell you, as we have done, the day, the hour and the program so that you do not load the mochuelo to the whole staff with generalities and speeches of office like those you do and we listen so often. It is a poor service of yours to Spanish Radiotelevision. Well, the usual. The only thing that can be expected of this Socialist Party. You only know how to occupy it, handle it, manipulate it and get very angry when you take your toy away. The dignity, respect and future of the Spanish Radio Television staff deserve much more than that. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u43	Thank you, Mr. Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u44	We move on to non-law propositions. The first, from the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió, on the annual payment of the Competitiveness Fund for the years 2014 and 2015 to the Generalitat de Catalunya and other autonomous communities benefiting from it. Mr Sánchez i Llibre has the floor for his defence and presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is currently paying the Autonomous Communities the Competitiveness Fund two years late. I repeat again: the Government, at the moment, is slow with regard to the two-year delay in the autonomous communities. This, ladies and gentlemen, in a common language and from a legal point of view does not cease to be a fraud of law. For this reason, the Convergence i Unió Parliamentary Group has submitted to this House a non-legislative proposal that goes in the right direction contrary to what is happening today; that is, that the Government can advance the Competitiveness Fund from 2014 and 2015 to this current year, so that they can recover economic resources that are their own and that amount to approximately 6 billion euros. I repeat, at this time, the Government owes the Autonomous Communities of the Competitiveness Fund around EUR 6 billion, which intends to pay them in the years 2016 and 2017. That, ladies and gentlemen, since Convergence i Unió we consider it unacceptable, we consider it a tremendous injustice, and what we intend with this parliamentary initiative is that the People's Parliamentary Group, the parliamentary group that supports the Government, reacts actively, ceases to be slow with regard to the autonomous communities and that in 2015, ladies and gentlemen, the autonomous communities can charge the advance of the Competitiveness Fund, which, I repeat, amounts to approximately EUR 6 billion, and that in this case it corresponds to about EUR 1.5 billion. The rest of the autonomous communities that would also benefit, should this initiative prosper, would be Valencia, Balearic Islands, Murcia Region, the Canary Islands and Madrid. Why are we presenting this initiative? Simply because of dignity, coherence and respect for the Autonomous Communities, which are still a very important part of the General Administration of the State. There is the central administration, there are the autonomous communities, there are the municipalities. We understand that through coherence, dignity and political respect, it is important for the Government to comply with existing legislation. There are also other reasons for fairness and justice, for here it is a question of the communities that collect the most taxes finally being able to recover a significant part of them, so that each citizen can receive the same taxes proportionally on equal terms for a question of institutional loyalty to the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that as of 1 January 2014 the government was obliged to put forward a new funding system, a situation which has flagrantly failed. For this reason, since it has not been able and has not had the courage and political courage to carry out a new financing system, as is mandatory by law, having an absolute majority as they do, we understand that they would have to make an effort of the category and nature that we propose. At the same time, it is an obvious need for the autonomous communities which, for reasons of competitiveness, know perfectly well that they provide basic essential services such as health, social services and education, need these resources so that they can provide them on an equal footing from the point of view of all the autonomous communities. I would also like to give an account of the balance of relations between the Central Administration of the State - in this case between the Government and the People's Party - and the autonomous communities in general, not only and exclusively in Catalonia. Unfortunately, we understand that this balance, with the utmost respect and transparency, has been very negative because there has been a great disloyalty and there has been, at the same time, a great belligerence that has led to the drowning and economic asphyxiation of the autonomous communities. There have been very important breaches and disloyalties. Why, gentlemen of the People's Party, have they been unable to move forward or propose a legislative initiative with the improvement of the financing of the autonomous communities, which was mandatory that they would have proposed from 1 January 2014? We don't have an answer. We have asked this question to the Minister of Finance and Public Administration, and he has always given the silent answer. There is another very relevant aspect. From 2012 to 2015, the collection of indirect and direct taxes by the State has been more than €32 billion. Of this increase, of this €32 billion in collection for an increase in direct and indirect taxes, not a single euro has gone to the autonomous communities. We understand that this is a miserable action and is another reason for you to vote in favour of this proposal which has been put forward by Convergence i Unió. In this sense, once and for all the General Administration of the State would cease to be slow with the Autonomous Communities and, at the same time, the Autonomous Communities could charge the Competitiveness Fund for the years 2014 and 2015 in this current year and would not have to be postponed such collections to the years 2016 and 2017. In this case, gentlemen of the People's Party, you would avoid entering into a law fraud...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u46	Mr. Sánchez i Llibre.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u47	... that if necessary we would also report it to the relevant bodies. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u48	Thank you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. There is an amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. Mr Vallès has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Sánchez i Llibre, my group shares with you the need to use the advance instrument on behalf of the Competitiveness Fund provided for in the Lofca in order to provide Catalonia with greater liquidity at an already complex time; Catalonia and the rest of the beneficiary autonomous communities, such as the Balearic Islands, the Valencià Country, the Canary Islands, Murcia and Madrid. Your request seems reasonable to us. See if it is reasonable for us to approve this possibility of anticipating payments from the Competitiveness Fund; we approve it with your vote against, as Mr Sánchez i Llibre will recall. That is why I would like to begin by thanking him for the recognition he has made in his initiative, not in today's intervention, but in his initiative, that the Socialist Government made these advances without having to wait two years until the final clearance of the accounts for each financial year. I thank him for his appreciation and share his criticism of the Group of the European People's Party, which refuses to carry them out. With this - I do not know whether I want it or not - he is admitting that the problem is not so much in Lofca's predictions but in the implementation that the two governments have made of them. We did it and the People's Group refuses to do it, it is a question of autonomous sensitivity. I say that I thank you for this recognition because it is still paradoxical that you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, come here to beg for the application of the Lofca when five years ago you stated in this very House that your approval was the political assassination of the Statue. Not bad. Time passes and things are certainly relativized; the truth is that you did not support the Lofca, in fact you fought it with all your strength. To resort to it five years later to financially assist Catalonia is a clear sign of despair of a congenital tendency to demand responsibilities from the other administrations but never to assume their own. In this matter I believe that they have done a total discharge of their duties. I have been listening attentively to you all your intervention, and beyond sharing the substance of the matter, I cannot understand why you have brought this initiative here today. The Generalitat of Catalonia has sufficient bilateral and multilateral mechanisms to address together with the State the problems and financing needs of Catalonia, but you do not use them. A responsible government anticipates, makes decisions and acts. A government that acts in the general interest of the citizens of Catalonia would have called in advance enough bilateral mechanisms to solve the financing problems; a government that governs, does not expect its parliamentary group to have to put forward in Congress an initiative that they would have to solve between the two governments. You bring us here today a vote on the payment on behalf of the Competitiveness Fund. That is not a vote, ladies and gentlemen, that is a negotiation; I insist, it is not a vote, it is a negotiation, and you have done nothing. This matter should have been referred a long time ago to the State-General bilateral commission or to the Joint Committee on Economic and Fiscal Affairs, and you know it; bilateral commissions, commissions of negotiation between governments. [[I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I]] It cost us sweat and tears to introduce bilateral relationship mechanisms into the Statute, and you don't use them. You, who are talking all day about the creation of state structures, have bilateral negotiating structures between Catalonia and the State that you are unable to use; in fact, it has been three years without convening the bilateral commission. We are aware that the Government of the People's Party is placing the greatest burden of deficit reduction on the autonomous communities and that this is affecting the quality of the provision of basic public services. We know that the People's Party has no intention of making deliveries on account, but just as we are aware of it, in honor of the truth, we must also say that the responsibility for how the deficit is reduced and how expenditure and revenue are prioritized rests with each administration. That is why we also know that since you governed the Generalitat de Catalunya you have reduced your non-financial expenditure by 20% by measures such as the closure of hospital beds, the reduction of childcare aid and the reduction of the salaries of public employees. That is their share of responsibility, not to convene bilateral negotiating instruments and to decide who is the target of their cuts. We believe that, at this point, it is essential to address the revision of the autonomous financing system within the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council; an update which should have already entered into force on 1 January and for which Mr Montoro has not yet started the proceedings. You are, gentlemen of the People's Group, failing to comply with the law and we are out of date. It is urgent that we address the five-year review of the Lofca to correct funding shortfalls and ensure the provision of essential services in all autonomous communities. We're going to enforce the law, gentlemen of the People's Group. We're going to reform the funding once and for all...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u50	Mr. Vallès.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u51	...and as long as we do not put ourselves to it - I conclude - we are making the deficit reduction objectives of the autonomous communities more flexible so that we can guarantee citizens the level and quality of basic public services. This is our position and the content of our amendment which we are putting to the consideration of the proposing group and the other groups in the House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u52	Thank you, Mr Vallès. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today I'm going to tell you two stories that, even if they don't look like them, relate a lot. [[Show a picture]] This person I show here is Lidia Granell. I know her and her family. She is a Swedish patient who has had multiple sclerosis for 21 years. It has a disability of 79% and the Valencian council, which governs the People's Party, in 2013 reduced its aid by dependence from 350 euros to 20 euros; to 20! The second story is from Kafka. In 2011, the then Counsellor of Economics and today a Member of this House, Gerardo Camps, threatened to sue the government for failing to comply with the immediate payment of the Competitiveness Fund. There were elections, change of government and never again knew. As if reality were nothing more than a dream, the current Finance Advisor of the PP of the Valencian government this year has decided to include 1,057 million of the Competitiveness Fund as revenue in the 2015 budgets; revenues that the same PP says it will not pay, and today the deputies of the Valencian People's Party, including the former Finance Advisor, the Transport and Industry Advisor, who were part of that government, and all the deputies of the Valencian PP will vote against what they requested in 2011, against their government colleagues of the Valencian Generalitat. Today the Members will vote against the citizens they claim to represent, condemning the Valencians to continue in the queue, to be poorer, to have worse services. I'm done. That money is not from the government, it is from all Valencians; it means teachers, doctors, help to dependents. How many Lidias could be helped this year if they paid for the Competitiveness Fund, how many Lidias...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u54	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u55	...we could treat it with dignity if the Valencians had a decent financing and not an expoliation or a confiscation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Valencian PP, who do you want to be loyal to?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u56	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u57	With the PP or with the people? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Oramas, for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, the Canary Islands is a beneficiary of the Competitiveness Fund because it has a financing index lower than its fiscal capacity. I think Mr Sánchez's speech has been magnificent. Here we are talking about two things: a system of unjust financing and a commitment by the President of the Government, both in the debate of his investiture and in the electoral programme of the People's Party and reiterated in recent years, that the revision of the financing system was to be considered. In this funding system - said by FAES, not by the Member of the Canary Coalition - the worst financed community is Canary Islands. We are talking about a competitiveness fund that is going to guarantee that with what is filled the people's party's mouth, which is equality for all Spaniards in the provision of fundamental services, such as health, education or social services, further aggravated by the issue of meeting the degree of deficit. Health cannot wait for the People's Party Government to decide to pay in two years' time. Health is provided today, social services are provided today and education is provided today. Here was an agreement according to which deliveries were made on account and then, with the final settlement, any differences that might be resolved. This has been cut short and this attacks the State of self-government, the right of citizens to receive benefits and the right of the autonomous communities to exercise powers on equal terms. That is why today the canarian nationalists will support this non-law proposal presented by Convergence i Unió, because it is the right of citizens to receive benefits on equal terms if they live where they live in this country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr. Bosch. [[Pause]] He's not here. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Anchuelo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u61	Thank you, Madam President. What does CiU ask us in this non-legislative proposal? A clear and simple proposal that the 2014 and 2015 Competitiveness Fund be paid immediately by the Government. On what grounds? With an argument at first glance unappealable, law enforcement. They claim that the Government is slow because it is two years late in payment and is failing to comply with the law. If this were true, our support would offer no doubt. We are in favour of strict compliance with the law, with all the laws; but once again there are somewhat peculiar interpretations of the law. Let's go to the law. Law 22/2009 governs the functioning of the autonomous financing system and there is a transitional provision - transitional, I stress - second that during 2009, 2010 and 2011 the Competitiveness Fund will operate with advances. All right, but that transitional period has ended; and after that transitional period what the law provides is that it does not work with advances, with payments on account, but that the year of the final settlement of the system is paid two years later, when the details of that payment are sure to be known. It may seem better or worse to us, but what we can't say is that if you don't pay on account, it's illegal. It's not like that. During a transitional period it worked as requested here, but the end of that transitional period does not work with pay-as-you-go payments. Therefore, the 2014 fund should be paid in 2016 and 2015 in 2017. There are other equally questionable arguments, such as that the communities requesting it have more resources and reduce their deficit. In fact, this means not having more resources, but anticipating them; what they have more now will have less than two years later. If what concerns us, as it should be, is the structural deficit, this only serves, in an election year or in a year in which we want to build state structures, to anticipate resources, but it does not change the financial situation of any community in the medium or long term. We fear that the ultimate meaning of this initiative is to give ex post coverage to some faits consumés, because there have been communities, including Catalonia, that have already included in their 2015 budget proposals these resources that come to be claimed as their corresponding revenue, just as they have included historical debts alleged for investments based on the Statute or compensations for the tax on bank deposits. We are surprised that today they come to ask what in their budgets they say they already have. It's really amazing. That is why we are not going to collaborate in this strategy. We could agree that a comprehensive reform of the autonomous financing system, which is what is needed and which the Government should do before the end of the legislature, should include this change and that the Competitiveness Fund, like other resources, should be paid for. That is not what the law says today, and with the arguments that we are given here, legally unsustainable, with a separate modification of what should be a comprehensive reform of the autonomous financing system and with a strategy that we fear that in the fund only seeks to give ex post coverage to some facts consummated in the draft budgets of some communities, which we reproach, we cannot support this non-law proposal. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u62	Thank you, Mr. Anchovielo. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Go ahead that this orange link expresses our solidarity and our personal and group commitment to the Spanish Radio Television professionals, with their demand for professional dignity and with their denunciation of information manipulation. Without plural media democracy disappears; that serves the public media and, without a doubt, the private media. Therefore, our solidarity with the workers of the SER dismissed by a company in profit of a group that has managers with multimillionaire salaries...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u64	Mr. Coscubiela, get back to it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u65	...and who is dedicated to giving ethics lessons to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u66	Mr Coscubiela, return to the question we are in.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u67	Thank you, Madam President. It has to do with that, and it comes to heart, because one of the issues of this legislature is undoubtedly the behavior of a government with a deeply re-centralizing attitude that has practiced a great ignorance of the principle of institutional loyalty with which the mouth is filled; a lack of loyalty of the government with the autonomous communities embodied in the refusal to review the financing agreement as of January 2014, which is the date provided for in the 2009 law. Meanwhile, this same Government, in a whirlwind of phariseism and double morality, presents itself as the facilitator of the liquidity of the autonomous communities to which it has previously suffocated economically, no doubt, among other things, by delaying the payment of this Competitiveness Fund. The government's objective is quite obvious - we have denounced it by many groups in this House -: it is about taking advantage of the crisis to impose a re-centralisation of the state and a loss of political autonomy not only of the autonomous communities but also of the municipalities. It is enough to see the bill on autonomous financing submitted by the Government just a few weeks ago to see how much the State wants to dogalize the autonomous communities. First, it has done so through the facts and now seeks to legalize its facts, its behaviors, with a law that covers this political re-centralization of the autonomous communities. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this Competitiveness Fund is one of the factors that form part of a complex financing model and that it has many balances, and that it was - as the proposer and also some other intervener have said - to compensate those autonomous communities that receive lower tax flows than their contribution in order to avoid the breakdown of the criterion of balance between solidarity and effort, which is the one that theoretically infuses our autonomous financing system. In short, when the State submits to the Competitiveness Fund a late payment of the amounts that should be paid to the autonomous communities, what is being committed is a double injustice: first, those who make a greater contribution are being penalized: and, second, it is penalizing not the governments that govern these autonomous communities, but the citizens who receive less resources to be able to make social policies because, without a doubt, the autonomous communities, which are responsible for providing health, education, social services, aid to dependence, are, with this lack of public funding, those who ultimately - their citizens - pay those consequences of under-financing by the State. In this respect, our vote will be in favour of this non-legislative proposal presented by the Convergence and Union Group, without - if I may say so - the courage being taken away - our group shares the imagination of the Government of CiU and Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia that all financing problems are the responsibility of the others. You, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, are quite responsible for Catalonia having no resources. Do you remember when you publicly argued that donation tax or inheritance tax was something like death tax? You empty the tax system, you leave it without resources, you turn it into a corpse, and then, when you go to Catalonia, you complain that the corpse doesn't give you milk. Of course, of course not, it can't be so; yours is a double measuring rod, there can't be a good public administration financing system if there isn't a powerful tax system that supports it. Therefore, you would do well not to continue to sharpen the fiscal system of this country with your policies. I insist, on the decisive point, that we support your proposal for the Competitiveness Fund, because, in short, it is not just any item - I would like to remind you that the average of the years in which it has been paid is for Catalonia EUR 812 million, and with that much can be done - but that it is 5% of the tax revenue that Catalonia receives from the State, and a very similar percentage to that of the Valencia Country, which, from that point of view, is with Catalonia one of the large communities affected. In short, our group, which has been critical with the Parliament of Catalonia, with the spending priorities of the Government of Convergence i Unió and Esquerra Republicana, from that strong criticism of that position of Convergence i Unió, we tell you that this approach that brings us today seems fair and we will support it. Our vote will be in favour. As always, the defense of freedom of information and communication...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u68	Mr. Coscubiela, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u69	...against Spanish Radio and Television and in front of SER and Grupo Prisa. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u70	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela, your time is up. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today Convergència i Unió brings us the start of a campaign, taking advantage of the election year, to denounce that the government is late. Mr Sánchez i Llibre, you know perfectly well that this is a falsehood: the government is not late. In 2015, the autonomous communities entitled to the Competitiveness Fund will receive the 2013 liquidation. What you intend to do is to receive in 2015 those of 2013, 2014 and 2015. Do you think it appropriate to leave the future Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia unfunded? Are they so afraid of the autonomic elections? You think you're not gonna win and you want to spend three exercises on one? Is that asking for solidarity, asking for justice? Ladies and gentlemen of Convergence i Unió, you know perfectly well that the progress of the Competitiveness Fund was provided for in Law 22/2009, only as a transitional measure of commencement of implementation The transitional provisions are not perpetual and only established the progress for 2009, 2010 and 2011. [[transitional provision 2]] You filed a motion similar to this in 2011 because then the PSOE government did not pay the advance of 2011, and you protested. What did the PSOE, which now amends and says that progress does not have legal protection? It voted against the motion submitted by the Convergence and Union Group. We have to be serious. One cannot say to a government that is being the most supportive of Spanish history with the funding and liquidity problems of the autonomous communities that is a morose government. You know that the Government of Catalonia, which had closed down market access, will receive between 2012 and 2015 about 40 billion euros of a certain loan, and now they have fallen interest, according to the markets. [[The Lord]] The rates have been lowered, and by that fall in rates the Generalitat will save 1.8 billion euros of interest, when what it is asking us is an advance of 1,500. Do not accuse the Government of mistreating the Autonomous Communities. The Government, through these systems of advance financing for payment to suppliers, because they did not pay the bills - from FLA, social FLA, etc. -... They were volunteers, and you came and benefited in order to maintain the basic social services of your autonomous community. The Government is very proud to have helped you and other communities that came. Ladies and gentlemen of CiU, you took out some patriotic bonds. What happened to them? That they were a failure. Even Catalan patriots did not acquire patriotic bonds; some of them took the funds to Andorra, but did not invest in patriotic funds. [[Applauds]] That's what it looks like for the news. If it wasn't for the Autonomic Liquidity Fund you wouldn't have been able to pay the maturity of the funds, you wouldn't have been able to pay the 130,000 affected by the garbage bonds you took out on the market. You are trying to hide that you did not want to face a problem you inherited, certainly; it was an autonomous administration in ruins by the management of the tripartite governments. You, instead of facing the problem, have sought a lure to hide your lack of decision and effectiveness. The lure is the independence process and the scapegoat is the accusation that Spain steals from us. I think it is good enough to miss the truth, to ask the government to break the law and make an advance, pretending in 2015 to charge three years and that until 2018 the future government of the Generalitat does not have revenues in this way. It does not seem appropriate to us, and the Group of the European People's Party is going to vote against its approach, its proposal, because it does not conform to reality, it does not conform to the law and it is also unfair to Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Martin-Toledano. Mr Sánchez i Llibre, I think there is an amendment...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u73	We are not going to accept it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. - THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY, ON MEASURES TO ERRADICATE UNIVERSITY ENDOGAMIA BY REFORMING THE SYSTEM OF SELECTION OF UNIVERSITY LEVEL AND PERMANENT UNIVERSITY RESEARCHER. [[File number 162/001050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u75	Proposal for a law on Progress Union and Democracy, on measures to eradicate university endogamy through the reform of the system of selection of teaching staff and permanent university researcher. I would like to inform you that this is going to be the last item on the agenda we are going to discuss this afternoon. I have the floor to defend the initiative, Mr Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. The meaning of this initiative I think is very clear. It is about solving some of the structural problems of higher education, the university in Spain, in particular. First of all, because this type of debate sometimes biases the background information, which is not as disastrous as the Spanish university is sometimes pointed out. In fact, the fact that we can export, unfortunately, because of the crisis, so many graduates in engineering, in health sciences and in some other degrees indicates that there is an international demand because we offer some graduates that are of more than enough quality for the job demand; another thing is that in Spain we cannot hire them. One of the problems that has been dragging away for a long time, which is almost already chastised at the Spanish university, is precisely that of endogamy. For the uninitiated, endogamy is simply a perversion of the teacher's recruitment system which makes fidelity to the dominant group in the departments outweighs capacity, merit and quality. This does not always happen, no doubt there are teachers at the Spanish university who have won an opposition against the candidate of the house. It was my case, for example, but I do not want to talk about particular cases but about what is something very well known at the Spanish university, although it is part of the taboos that are rarely addressed. There's a numeric data that I think says everything. In 2006, 97% of Spanish university teachers were from the same university that had hired him, i.e. he had been trained in the same departments that later hired him. In contrast, in the United States, which has some of the best universities in the world - in those ravines that so much like to quote - this case was only 10%. Let's compare: 97% to 10% there's a whole gray graduation, but of course we're on the black side. How is this done? It is simply something very well known; it is about the permanent promotion of certain aspirants by those who have power within a department so that, with or without a doctorate, they are promoted throughout the scale, with all the graduation of contracts, which in recent times have become more baroque and more complicated. How do you do this? This is the issue that we have to change because the university itself has shown that it is not able to self-regulate, although some universities - then I will refer to this - have tried to avoid that trend. Public competitions and oppositions are manipulated. How do they manipulate each other? Basically by manipulating the profile, i.e. by taking out teacher profiles that fit like a glove to one hand to the profile of the candidate of the house. In fact, in recent times, and this is quite novel, there have been several court judgments that have forced to repeat competitions for facts that were already truly scandalous in the sense of this perversion, of this modification of the profiles to make certain square occupied by that and not by another candidate. Finally, what matters to us is that the whole system is not that it is isolated in one department, but that there is a whole network of poorly understood solidarity between the different departments, Spanish university institutes, so that none in general objects or sticks to what others do, but that in general everyone agrees that this system is the dominant, and also dominant, as I say, in a crushing way. Some prevention procedures have been adopted, but they have really been very ineffective. The data given before the number of teachers and researchers who have graduated from the same university that has hired him is more than eloquent. Moreover, the proliferation of universities at the provincial level that had to create staff very quickly from very small cores has not helped to combat this process but rather to strengthen it. What is the consequence of all this? Firstly, that the favouritism and bureaucratic control of the university administration has been imposed on the criteria of capacity and merit when hiring teachers. Secondly, the competitiveness that the system is supposed to bring is a fiction, because in very few cases competition is given on equal terms between different candidates. More: the loss, and this is the most serious, of the level of quality in teaching and research. I would like to underline this. We have a university that could be much better and I insist on an aspect that I hope the People's Group will impress. It's not a matter of money, it doesn't cost money, it's regular in another way. One more euro must not be put in place to ensure that there is competitiveness and that there is genuine equality of opportunity when it comes to accessing the IDP. But the consequence of the lower level is another very eloquent fact. In 2013, no less than 57.6% of the teaching and research staff at Spanish universities had stopped researching. That is to say, after having obtained the university post, after having obtained the position of official above all, of title or professor, more than half of the faculty ceases to investigate because it has already achieved the existential objective it pursues. What can we do about it, then? We obviously have to take action to the contrary. Mobility must be encouraged, and it must also be achieved, and this is very important, that all universities have the same rule. I want to say this because it is true that some universities in some autonomous communities have put in place systems that, for example, they ask, in order to be able to oppose certain places, a year or two of experience in another university, which is not always work, but that is insufficient if we do not get a circulation throughout the system of the more than seventy public and private universities that we already have in Spain. Judicial life is not only complicated, but it is not advisable. What has to be regulated by law is what will be required in all Spanish universities without exception to avoid endogamy. The proposal that we make, which has no claim, of course, of completeness, but of a first step towards implementing a reform whose only objective is that Spain should have the university it deserves - and which it can have because it is not a question of money - is to link mobility to equal opportunities and to competitive access to the places of teaching and research staff that universities offer. We propose three very simple things, which in other countries already exist and also with far better results than ours, which we should take note of. First, that no university hires a doctor for teaching or research positions if he has not worked for at least three years at a different university. Nor would it be wrong for him to be distant, but for the moment we settle for him to be different, in another university. Secondly, to link funding, of course beyond current expenditure, to the achievement of educational and research quality objectives. For what? To encourage competition and the recruitment of the best and not the most faithful and submissive to the already existing core of power. By the way, I take the opportunity to say that in recent years we have seen how a university department can become something else completely different, in the political platform of launching a political party, for example, through the mechanism of creating academic dictatorships. Thirdly, to facilitate with incentives the mobility of teachers in the university system so that there are real possibilities for job seekers to move and have stays in universities other than their own. These are obviously simple things. As I said before and I want to stress it again, they do not cost a euro. The economic excuse here isn't worth it. They also respect autonomous competences, because we are not asking the autonomous communities to lose their competence. We are asking that the university system be the same in all of them, just as it should be in the European Higher Education Area or the Bologna system. Finally, I will say that I have received two amendments, one from the People's Parliamentary Group and one from Convergence and Union. Convergence and Union is questionable, but we think it is based on a premise that eludes the substance of the issue. It is not a question of preserving autonomous competences, they will continue to have them; it is a question of the competences not being used to change the university system and then closing and breaking a university system that should be unique. The Group of the European People's Party, once again, decapitates in such a way that we ask that we really cannot accept it, so that I will ask for the vote in its own terms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. As Mr Gorriarán has said, there are two amendments. Firstly, for the Catalan Group of Convergence and for the defence of its amendment, Mr Barberà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martínez Gorriarán, your initiative seeks to move or activate the government in university politics. If you recall, it was January 2012 when the minister appeared before the Commission and spoke about ambitious objectives to improve university policy. He created a high-level expert council and we have had a report since February 2013, but there are few initiatives of the ministry in the university field, beyond a regression in the model of scholarships and study grants and a real decree that allows for more degrees of three years, which also has its complexity. Since September 2012, the Generalitat de Catalunya had had the report of a paper that sought to improve the Catalan university system. Its various sections highlighted the financing and recruitment and promotion of staff. That report told us about staff management and said that there was a need to improve the current practice of selection and guide it towards greater openness, that there was a need to increase internal competitiveness and create strategies for internationalization. The report went a step further and said that measures needed to be put in place to further open the recruitment market for young doctors or to promote mobility and post-doctoral training as a preliminary step towards a path of permanent links to the university. It proposed to create clear processes that would also assess research activity, the quality of the teacher or professional experience with external agents, and also called for measures to facilitate the incorporation of active professionals into university teaching and, at the same time, for active teachers to be able to work in companies, set up companies or work in institutions. He ultimately asked for management of the staff, the teacher and researcher, ambitious and/or imaginative. The University of Catalonia has been a basic tool for advancing the own model of personnel management in the Catalan university system, although - Mr Martínez Gorriarán, you can see what was said - we are already reaching the legal limit that allows state regulation. In Catalonia we already need to change the legal framework in order to overcome the restriction imposed on us by the state framework, as it does not allow the development of the model we want to carry out in the area of personnel management. The Minister is aware of the proposals to delete paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 48 of the Organic Law on Universities, because we want to eliminate or make more flexible the limits of the teaching and research staff hired or eliminate or make more flexible the limits of the teaching and research staff with temporary employment contracts. The Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió believes it is appropriate to ask the Government to open a broader debate than its proposal to reach a consensus on the framework for the reform of staff management and, therefore, we are prepared to talk about its initiative on mobility, internationalisation, financing, catching capacity, we agree to open the debate, but, as you have already reflected in your intervention - as it could not otherwise be - this model must be respectful of Catalonia's competitive framework, with its own model of university system. That is why we have tabled amendments to the first point, where you added to the title and experience the duty to document at least three years of work in other universities or in companies, research centres, etc. Look, that's the problem with state legislation, that premise would be preventing an innovative talent capture program, such as the Jaume Serra i Hunter. This three-year premise we were discussing earlier would not allow this program to be carried out. That is why we need a flexible state framework so that each autonomous community can implement within that flexibility its own model of university system according to each territory, with every policy of the Government and its environment that reflects those needs of the territory. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to abstain, because we agree that a debate must be opened, but not in the direction in which you want to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Barberà. In order to defend the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. I believe that Mr Martínez Gorriaran has defumed in his words part of the hardness of some of the approaches of the initiative. Like everything in life, the approaches to the university, also Spanish, are not white or black. Talking about endogamy doesn't always have to be a catastrophic vision. You've softened it a little bit. Undoubtedly, there are many causes that can determine percentages of what has been called endogamy and that we are all concerned about. We can say that the People's Parliamentary Group agrees with his initiative in the spirit or that, as the spokesman of the Catalan Parliamentary Group also put it, he is not worried that the university will improve. There's no doubt about it. In a recent public debate in the media, it was evident how extraordinarily concerned are the rates of endogamy at the Spanish university. I believe, however, that we must be fair and that we must sometimes dispense with such absolutist statistics. This percentage - many of the experts have recognized it - does not measure all the internal mobility that can exist throughout the life of a university student from his doctorate to the moment when it is calculated whether or not there is mobility. Precisely since 1983, since the University Reform Act of 1983, selection systems have varied greatly. They have not been able to eliminate a part of that endogamy that we are all concerned about, which is the accommodative part of the professor or university researcher, which cannot exist, which must not exist, which is opposed to being a university student, which is opposed to incorporating quality into the university system, but it is true that progress has been made, sometimes with little stability, in systems that encourage mobility, that encourage international mobility, that encourage exchange, such as Erasmus programmes, also in the field of teaching, the programmes that have encouraged research teams. All this has been incorporating improvements into the university system, but it is not enough, and we have not been right in the selection systems. That is why this group, wanting to unite the important part of the debate that we have also appreciated in many experts, summarizes it in that amendment, but it is a summary that needs development, and it is to improve the selection processes and systems. Mr. Barberà said so, and I agree. Not all universities are the same. Not all areas of knowledge are the same. In all cases, the same level of paralysis or non-mobility has not occurred. Not all assumptions of endogamy about statistics are assumptions of bad practice, they are assumptions of manipulation, they are assumptions of not giving opportunities to select the best. But that exists, you have to recognize it. In the Spanish university, as in other universities, there are selection processes that do not meet the basic requirements of appreciating the principles of merit and capacity. That is why they should be modified, but what has been done should also be recognised. Minimums have been incorporated, standards in accreditation processes that allow us to know the curriculum path and also the mobility of our teachers, and only by overcoming these accreditation processes can we reach some places. Is it better? Yes, we have to improve it. Should the system of evaluation of research by an independent agency be improved? Yes, but it is done and that has served to give a number of incentives and to change some strategies. Should we stay on that line? Yes, you have to stay on that line. Should it be incorporated into the improvement of the selection process so that it does not fail, so that it does not fall into the temptation to fail to comply with the principles of merit and capacity? Yes, we have to keep doing it. Some new developments have also been incorporated into the Budgets Act this year, and I would like to highlight that. An additional provision is incorporated with an amendment by the People's Group in the Senate, the ninety-sixth, which recognizes the possibility of removing places from the university public offer to which persons who have been in another university for at least two years and with sufficient accreditation to aspire to that place. They must remain for two years and these places will not be counted in the replacement rate. It's a call to make that mobility possible. The difficult competition system we have in Spain in this field often prevents measures which you find easy and which appear in your motion for a resolution from being so simple, because the competence is of the autonomous community, the funding, because the competence for recruitment is of the autonomous community, because the competence in designing and establishing the selection commissions is of the universities. All that must be taken into account. Can it be done? Yeah. Should it be done? Yeah. We must encourage this to be done as soon as possible because there are sufficient diagnostic elements to incorporate improvements and the university must continue to improve. I would not like to end without referring to a phrase recently said by César Nombela and with which I agree: If there is an institution to which it is possible to demand a constant tension of improvement, of advance, that institution is the university. That is also why the accreditation system will be changed: there it is, in the Council of State. Not all reforms are by law, but they are taking place. It's progress on some of the things that haven't worked wrong. You have to be very careful when it comes to establishing and how to write some measures about someone spending three years in another university. It could be given the circumstance, it could be given the anecdote that we eliminate the possibility that someone who is highly deserving of his curriculum, which is extraordinarily valuable, could not aspire and promote himself in a square and that, however, someone who formally accredits a stay in another center or in other university centers would be able to access it. In 2001, it was anticipated that there would be a disengagement for certain places at the beginning of the university career. It was not a bad measure and yet it was managed to pervert - all of us who are part of the university know it - and it served no purpose. We must insist that merit and capacity must be preserved, that mobility is necessary and that it is necessary to change to improve the selection systems, and there we can all certainly reach enough agreements and appreciate the good work that many university students do, even if they have to stay at the same university for many years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Moro. Position-fixing turn. Firstly, for the Basque Group, PNV, Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u82	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that when I read the operative part of this initiative, I have to admit that my legs were shaking, and I was just afraid to think about the possibility of urging the government or, which is the same thing, Minister Wert to present - and I quote literally - a bill within six months. I have to acknowledge the courage or perhaps better the boldness of the proposing group in view of the destruction, the incalculable damage caused in just two years by the People's Government and by the Ministry of Education in the Spanish educational system, first on the front, with the Lomce, and now, in the matter of university policy, with a decree profile. In the first motion on tomorrow's agenda we will have the opportunity to discuss the last jewels evacuated by the Executive in the area of university teaching management, but that will be tomorrow. [[Rumors]] I'll put the thread back on. As you will understand, aware of Minister Wert's insignificant curriculum, I thought: honestly, what a need to go for dangers, what a need. It is true that, in a second more serene reflection, I also concluded that this GNP only highlights the poor balance of the management of Minister Wert in university policy: make-up, cuts and more cuts, and some administrative retouching. After all, what makes this initiative black and white is that this Government and the Minister have not been able to carry out the commitment made at the beginning of this parliamentary term, as Mr Barberà has rightly pointed out in his speech. [[The Rumors Continue]] On the other hand, it is unquestionable that the system of selection, recruitment and promotion of teaching and research staff, of the IDPs, of the university in general, suffers from endogamy. It is certainly unquestionable. In this assessment we are 100% in agreement with the background of the initiative, we and I believe the whole educational community. It is also the need to carry out its review, with the will to end once and for all with the more than negative effects of this illness that also Mr Martínez Gorriarán has shown throughout his intervention: it reduces competitiveness to the universities of the State... [[The Rumors Continue]] President, I'm being told I'm not being listened to.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u83	I'm sorry, Mrs. Sanchez. I beg you to remain silent so that the honourable Member can be heard.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u84	As I said, it reduces the competitiveness of state universities and conditions the quality and efficiency of the university system. We totally agree on that. However, we cannot share the catastrophic vision - as Mrs Moro has also pointed out - which moves through the exhibition in a homogenizing and generalistic way, and even less so as regards the work of the staff and education professionals. Of course, in line with what Mr Barberà has pointed out, we cannot accept that the powers of the autonomous communities, of the various educational administrations, of the universities should be observed, and that our spirit should also be placed in a government, in a ministry and in a minister who have made the law categorically imperative, which has proved to be blind, deaf and mute to the opinion not only of the parliamentary groups in this House but also of the educational sector and of society as a whole, a government which, in addition, led by the majority of Parliamentarians, which is not social - we have already commented on other times - has done as he said about the imposition of a maximum. Honestly, it's risking too much. Considering, therefore, the disastrous management they have carried out, which is already at a discount time, we understand - and it is hard what I am going to say - that it is preferable to keep the status quo waiting for better political times and new parliamentary majorities. That is why I am telling you that our vote will be abstention.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. For the Group of the Plural Left, I have the floor, Mrs García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. A few minutes ago the spokesman for the People's Group commented that sometimes we could attack with measures such as the one that brings us people, students and extraordinarily valid university students. It is regrettable that these extraordinarily valid university students are leaving, especially in research, for the lack of resources that we currently have. In any case, let's go to the initiative that is brought to us today. Mr. Martínez Gorriarán, in the first paragraph of his non-law proposal, says that university endogamy has always had to do - that says the PNL - with more with the system of selection of teaching and research staff, that is, with the formation of the courts and the processes that require accreditation to access the places, which also concludes his non-law proposal that is the mobility of applicants to a place or their stay in other institutions. Mr Martínez Gorriarán, wanting to force universities to hire or admit only candidates who have been to a different university for at least three years in the public competition is not only an interference in the autonomy of universities, but it does not guarantee the elimination of endogamy at all. You accuse universities of endogamy of every sign, without distinguishing between public and private. However, in public universities there is a process of selection, which, as was said by other speakers, will need to be improved, but which exists. However, in private universities teachers must be, even in many of them, ideologically related to those who hire them. We do not think it is right that your parliamentary group, Union Progreso and Democracy, should join in the battle of contempt and disqualification that Minister Wert is waging to discredit the public university in favour of private universities - but it is not our problem, in any case it will be his -, turning into the crucial and priority problem of the university endogamy, which we do not say does not exist, on which we will have to do something and act on it, when it seems, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that the cuts and strangulation of the public university are the cry that the university community raises in the various mobilizations and strikes against a minister who, after decree, is dismantling the public university in a genuine reform for deliveries. This time it's not deferred, it's directly for deliveries. What seems to be behind your non-legislative proposal is not the concern for the university's endogamy, but an attempt to apply neoliberal measures to universities through regulatory imposition, because what you are trying to do - what is really in keeping with your non-legislative proposal - is your second point: linking university funding and especially funding for research programmes and own titles, as well as the remuneration of teachers, to the achievement of certain objectives. We do not agree that he should be required to work for three years in universities other than his own because it is to give priority to exile in the face of merit and capacity, even less so with the kind of precarious contracts made by universities before obtaining a place that requires complementary funding from the family, because if it is not impossible to access it. The only thing that we agree with his non-law proposal is the need to facilitate the mobility of teachers, but for this it is crucial to obtain funding - therefore, it does cost money - so that teachers can make stays at other universities, collaborate in projects, etc.; in no case would it be economic aid to the departments that hire IDPs from other universities, which would also cost money. What should be done is not to legislate by imposing on universities by questioning their ability to analyse the reality of university professionals. What should be done is to address a serious reform of the access system and accreditation of university teachers by negotiating - listen, if they are interested - with social partners and universities, which are themselves affected. [[Rumors]] Let us no longer legislate on those affected without even taking them into account. We need to talk about the mobility of university faculty in general - now blocked, by the way - and not just to make life impossible for those who are going to consolidate their jobs. Let us not turn the victims - the precarious and temporary teacher - into culprits. Why is this measure intended to apply to the precarious faculty and is not also proposed for university professors who have been there for more than twenty years? In short, what we believe you propose with this non-legislative proposal follows the line of the report of the committee of experts entrusted by Minister Wert, which proposes a system without the guarantees required for a public procurement and the gradual defunctionalization of academic staff, creating a sort of two categories of faculty. It seems, therefore, that it is intended a dual system of teaching - that much likes in the banks of the right -, divided into an elite of star records with armored contracts and a majority of teaching in precarious conditions and dependent on continuous renovations of their superiors, poorly paid and working at a standstill, with serious difficulties to maintain a certain freedom of chair and also academic independence itself.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u87	Madam Member, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u88	I'm done, Mr. President. These formulas already rehearsed at other times and universities, what reinforces is the seasonal hierarchy, as Fernández Buey defined it. All these considerations that we have made to you, Mr Martínez Gorriarán, Mr de UPyD, are to point out, of course, our vote against the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs García Álvarez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Bedera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u90	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1917 Miguel de Unamuno entered the Academy of Jurisprudence and Legislation with a speech that referred to the ills that plagued the university and pointed out, among others, nepotism, corporatism and indigenism, an expression that was then used for what we understand today as endogamy. In 1984 the professor of administrative law Alejando Nieto published La Tribbio Universitaria, a small work that became a real best seller for denouncing the scandalous system of access to university chairs for many decades. It was recalled in its pages how important it was to link a trio, that is, that three members who were willing to vote against wind and tide fell in the court draw. The problem arose when the famous trio did not have a candidate too presentable, such as the one who went to a place of law and spent a good time explaining the deep ties between him and his Italian teacher, author of numerous books, Mr. Cedam, name which, when pronounced, caused the general carcassade between the assistants and the definitive suspension of the opposition, since this Cedam was not the name of any author but obviously the acronyms of an editorial. It was also problematic in that system of opposition that the president found himself in a minority, because before handing over the square to the enemy school he tried to leave a vacancy by resorting to whatever it was, as happened in a certain chair of Philosophy of Law at the University of Oviedo, where the president of the court, since he could not impose his minority will, went out to phone for a moment and never came back, preventing his colleagues from voting. This so-called system of oppositions was summed up in a round that ran between the teachers of that moment and that said: to make oppositions the first and main thing is to have a court willing to do you favors. Ladies and gentlemen, we come from this system, but it would be very unfair to say that we are in this system. Precisely in order to correct cases such as that of the so-called Mr Cedam, our system of access to chairs and other academic levels was modified in 2001 by creating the qualifications first and the accreditations later, where a commission outside the university examines the curriculum of the contestant and credits it or not for any of the teaching degrees recognized in the law. Is the system perfectable? Yeah. Is it better? Of course, but it has nothing to do with what was described before, just as the university of 2015 has nothing to do with that of the transition. Even Professor Sosa Wagner, also a professor of administrative law, whom the rapporteur will surely know because for some time he militated in his party, in a little book that was also called The myth of university autonomy, said that the system of empowerment somehow combated endogamy because no serious Spanish can conceive - he said - a model of selection handed over to the only decision-making forces of the convoking university, because, knowing that we are as we are, the worst fears and the most open arbitrariness would soon come out. [[Show a book]] The Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Gorriarán, can agree with the spirit that permeates his non-legislative proposal and that is nothing other than reducing endogamy, but it seems to us that neither the situation is as before nor endogamy at the moment is our main problem. The university, ladies and gentlemen, is in an emergency situation, but for other reasons other than endogamy. They must know all their lordships that when Christmas comes the faculties, laboratories and libraries of many universities close in order not to spend heating; they must know how difficult it is to awaken university vocations if the fellowships in the departments have been drastically cut, if there is no money for exchanges abroad or if the FP and FPU fellowships are reeling; they must know that training a teacher is very expensive - career, postgraduate, thesis, stays abroad, congresses, languages - and with the slim reward of precarious contracts, when not academic exile. Ladies and gentlemen, our young researchers are not leaving, they are being kicked out of the current system. Take note of one fact: only 5% of CSIC researchers are under 40 years of age. When the famous Bricall report warned that if governments did not reform the university it would be done by the markets, who would tell us that it would be the government itself that would be the mouthpiece of the markets. That is why, Mr Martínez Gorriarán, in other circumstances we would vote for your non-law proposal, probably with nuances, but we would vote for it to eliminate endogamy at the university. Today we are seriously afraid for its viability and think that primum live, give philosophical and, therefore, we are going to abstain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Bedera. Mr Martínez Gorriaran, although you have already said so, for formal purposes I ask you what you are going to do with the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u92	Mr. President, we don't accept them. The vote will take place on their terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. We'll vote in a few minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u94	We shall proceed to the votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u95	It takes into consideration the proposal for a law of the Plural Left Group on reform of the value-added tax on basic services: water, electricity, gas and transport. There are 4 votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 plus 4 telematics votes, 322; 147 plus 2 telematics votes, 149; 169 plus 2 telematics votes, 171; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u96	It's not taken into consideration. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON AMENDMENT OF LAW 17/2006 OF 5 JUNE, RADIO AND TELEVISION OF STATE TITULARITY, TO RECOGNIZE THE INDEPENDENCE OF RTVE CORPORATION AND PLURALISM IN THE PARLIAMENTARY ELECTION OF THEIR BODIES. [[File number 122/000172]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u97	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Group on the amendment of Law 17/2006 of 5 June on State-owned radio and television, in order to regain the independence of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. There are 4 votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 plus 4 telematics votes, 322; 148 plus 2 telematics votes, 150; 169 plus 2 telematics votes, 171; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u98	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u99	No law proposal of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió, concerning the annual payment of the Competitiveness Fund for the years 2014 and 2015 to the Generalitat of Catalonia and other autonomous communities benefiting from it. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 134 against 170; abstentions 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u100	It's rejected. - THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY, ON MEASURES TO ERRADICATE THE UNIVERSITY ENDOGAMIA THROUGH THE REFORM OF THE SYSTEM OF SELECTION OF THE UNIVERSITY STAFF AND PERMANENT UNIVERSITY INVESTIGator. [[File number 162/001050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u101	Proposal for a law of the Progress Union and Democracy Group on measures to eradicate university endogamy through the reform of the system of selection of teaching staff and permanent university researcher. The vote was also taken on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 7 against, 183 abstentions, 123.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-17-CD150217.u102	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was seven and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
