ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u1	The meeting was resumed. Since the proposal for an organic law amending Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November has to be discussed, it is announced that it will not be voted before eleven, although it will probably be a little later. The first point we are going to discuss is the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/00141 to 110/00147. Some groups have asked to speak, as you know, for five minutes. Firstly, for the Plural Left Group, Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we are dealing with one of the most important conventions that this House has recently discussed, both on a subject of obvious political topicality - the conflict that is developing in Ukraine - and on the very content of this convention. I am reassured because I know that all Members have read the convention carefully, its 2,142 pages, and they are therefore going to vote in line with the deep content of this document. Our group is going to abstain on this subject. We will vote in favour of the other conventions, but we will abstain in the vote on the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. The most important reasons why we are going to do this have been given to me by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Spain, Mr García-Margallo, who in a television intervention last week at TVE's breakfasts made a brilliant intervention and expressed an idea that I fully welcome and use to base my intervention. Our minister was saying: The European Union may have been wrong. We were wrong - the minister said - because we raised the debate with Ukraine by making it choose between the Treaty of Partnership with the European Union or the Treaty with the Eurasian Economic Union led by Russia. That was a serious mistake, because the Eurasian Economic Union led by Russia and the European Union are compatible; they are two political, economic and geostrategic concepts that must not be confronted, but precisely must be combined, and in Ukraine there is, from the territorial point of view, the physical space where these two political and economic spaces can be found. But the European Union bet on the confrontation and the European Union was wrong. Therefore, today we are going to vote on the fruit of a mistake, which has made a very important contribution to the current conflict in Ukraine. Obviously, this conflict is not only the result of this element, but this element has had a very important influence. I'll give you another piece of information. Today in Ukraine there is a government. Some will tell me that there is a democratic government. I see it differently. I will explain to you which government is in Ukraine. Today in Ukraine there is a government that won some elections, yes, but those elections were called by another government, and the government that called the elections, and that obviously won them, was a coup government. Yes, a coup government, a government that made a coup d'état against the government and the constitutional president of Ukraine, which evidently had to leave the country. That coup Government, formed in its day by fascist ministers, called an election, and those elections were won by the current Government of Ukraine, elections in which a significant part of the territory of Ukraine did not participate. Therefore, we are faced with an abnormal situation. I am not going to refer - we have discussed it profusely and we will continue to do so in the coming months - to the current war conflict in Ukraine. We welcome the Minsk agreements and hope that the Minsk II agreement scenario will be a framework for dialogue and agreement on the way out of conflict. This is our position, as is the position of the countries that negotiated in Minsk. But in Ukraine there is a conflict and the European Union and the Government of Spain must be a bridge of solution and dialogue and not foster strategies such as the Treaty of Agreement and Partnership that brings us here today, which are more anchored in the Cold War and in the NATO strategy than in the interests of the European Union with Ukraine and the good relations of the European Union with Russia. We will therefore abstain in the vote on this convention. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Before giving the floor to Mr Xuclà, I would like to announce to your ladies and gentlemen that the Ambassador of Ukraine, whom we greet from here, will accompany us in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] I give the floor to Mr Xuclà, for the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ambassador of Ukraine, now more than ever we have to vote in favour of the Political and Economic Partnership Agreement with Ukraine; now more than ever and after some mistakes made in the past and after the impossibility of reaching an overall agreement on the Western Partnership in the months of October and November 2013, at the Vilnius Summit. There were errors on many sides; errors, surely, by the previous Ukrainian government that played the ambiguities until the last minute; errors by the European Union, which did not understand that 70% of the Ukrainian market is linked to the Russian market and that it had to make the incorporation in the economic structures of the European Union compatible with the economic relationship with Russia; and, by the way, also with a slightly misdiagnosed diagnosis by the US administration. Following the mistakes of the Vilnius summit, the change of government and the departure of President Yanukovich on the night of 21-22 February 2014, the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia in March 2014, and the beginning of the Ukraine war in April 2014. Now more than ever, we have to help a country in a state of war with the instruments available to the European Union, late, not bad, but late. This Monday, the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mrs Mogherini, reminded us of the importance of this instrument to the Bureau and spokesmen of various committees in this House, because at the end of the day, after many words, the useful instruments, the possible instruments will be the instruments envisaged in the political agreements that can be implemented from now on and the economic agreements that are activated from January 2016. This is a mistake. In fact, last week's trip of Minister Margallo to Kiev, accompanied by a delegation of Spanish entrepreneurs to activate economic relations, is ahead of the times foreseen in the chapter of the economic agreement. Mr Nuet, I have not read it per page but by articles, which is how the agreements are articulated; they are 486 articles that try to give economic viability to a country at war, with which the European Union intends to provide instruments for modernisation. Let us be clear and sincere from loyalty and friendship with the people of Ukraine, also with instruments for the fight against corruption, in a country that has as one of its past and present evils, certainly corruption. Instruments that facilitate and promote liberalization in many respects. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, one of the most popular issues in the Ukrainian Parliament, in the Ukrainian Supreme Rada, is the Gibraltar clause, the need to make it possible for the liberalization of flights not to be in the hands of one company and one Ukrainian owner but of different owners. This is currently stuck because the United Kingdom and Spain have not resolved the so-called Gibraltar clause. I can assure you, through contacts with Ukrainian Members, that this is an issue that is perfectly present at the moment in the political debate and with which we can also help in bilateral relations. Let us therefore give this country a chance at war, Mr Nuet. The way to give it an opportunity is to vote in favour of these important agreements on political partnership and economic partnership. Let us welcome the Minsk II agreement, which represents the triumph of the diplomatic route in the face of those options that had outlined the barbarity of the military solution. The first sensible person in this conflict is President Poroshenko - it cannot be said of other members of the Government, but clearly of President Poroshenko - who has always stated in public and in private that the solution to this conflict is not a military solution. We therefore welcome the Minsk II agreements and want Ukraine to own its future in a scenario of compatibility between its incorporation into European structures and its neighbourly relationship with Russia. After World War II Austria was viable, Austria was saved by its neutrality status. Let us allow Ukraine to be respected in the future and with good neighbourly relations with the two blocs; two blocs that are currently being confronted, which have been very close to an open war like the war in Yugoslavia, but in the medium term this Europe can only be stabilized through - this is very difficult to say today - a great agreement between the European Union and a Russian Federation that has to evolve towards respect for human rights and with democratic standards that are not currently being met. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sáez Jubero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of the international conventions that we are putting to the vote today and, because of their importance, we want to stop and make explicit reference to the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and Ukraine. It was precisely the refusal or blockade of then President Viktor Yanukovich to ratify that agreement in November 2013 and the alternative signing of an Association Agreement with the Russian-led Customs Union that generated a great mobilization in Ukraine. We are excited to see Ukrainian citizens protesting with their European flags with the will to express their proximity and belonging to the common project of the European Union. Subsequent events have placed us in the main European crisis since the Balkan war: removal of the President, constitutional change, early elections, new President, referendums, annexation of Crimea to Russia, declaration of independence of the Donetsk and Lugansk Republics, open clashes between Ukrainian and rebel troops and finally a ceasefire with the pending Minsk agreements. The international conflict that has been taking place for months on our eastern border of Europe obliges us to reflect on the role that the European Union must play as a global player. Strengthening European diplomacy, not only in relation to its means but above all with regard to Community coordination mechanisms in order to have an influential voice on the international scene, emerges from this conflict as an essential necessity. If we look back just a few months we will warn that the role of the European Union has been dubious in the area, from the process of secession from Crimea to the recent truce negotiated by several European countries with Russia and Ukraine. However, the only negotiated solution, this is peaceful, to the crisis in Ukraine is a European solution. Ladies and gentlemen, bringing about a European solution to the crisis in Ukraine requires working in parallel and simultaneously in two areas. The first is the permanent cessation of hostilities through international mediation. In this regard, the truce in force since 14 February must be strengthened with permanent follow-up and greater involvement of the High Representative for the European Union's Foreign Policy. The second is the deepening of the European Union's Eastern Neighbourhood Policy, which provides for greater political, economic and financial stimulus for the whole of the Eastern region as a general strategy of pacification and containment in its possible expansion of the crisis to the whole of the area. The Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine on atomic energy and the Association Agreement that we are discussing today are part of this second package of measures to deepen the partnership with the Eastern European neighbours. Perhaps on this agreement it is not idle to recall that the field of atomic energy was, together with the Agreement on Coal and Steel and the Economic Community, the substrate of international treaties which, in the mid-twentieth century, after the end of the Second World War, were signed with the aim of building a united Europe. Peace in Europe, after the two world wars, was the purpose of those treaties and once again peace in this common European area, which transcends the political borders of the Union, must be in the Partnership Agreement with Ukraine. We cannot tolerate a war on European soil, Europe must be a continent of peace, progress and security. We do not yet know exactly whether the Minsk bis agreements are going to be a success or whether on the contrary we are heading towards further escalation of tension with the Russian Federation and, thereby, the need for future sanctions. Ukraine is not viable without the cooperation of the European Union and Russia, we must ensure that it becomes a source of confrontation because of cooperation between the two. The European Union's commitment to Ukraine must be firm. We want to share the same values and principles, and to that end, the European Union has promoted the agreement with Ukraine. This is not an obstacle to demanding further reforms in Ukraine to deepen the democratic quality of its institutions, and the European Union must remain united in this commitment to Ukraine. That is why we do not share positions that have been expressed today by other parliamentary groups. We knew the position of the Plural Left or of new political formations such as Podemos, expressed in the European Parliament, coincident, by the way, with others of different furs like that of the French National Front, contrary to the signing of this agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. It is clear that this weakens the European Union and facilitates an understanding of the positions held by the Russian Federation, introducing scenarios of divergence which should be the common position of the European Union. Spain wanted to join the European Union and obtained the support of the European Community for its accession, and it would have been misunderstood, ladies and gentlemen, to find rejection from other countries of the European Union. Today Ukraine is looking to the European Union and we must show the same support and understanding that allowed us to join a community that shares values of respect for democratic principles, the rule of law, good governance, human rights and fundamental freedoms. Ukraine is a European country, which shares history and common values with the Member States of the European Union. For this reason, the Socialist Parliamentary Group supports this initiative as well as the other international conventions proposed for ratification today. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u7	Thank you, Mr. Sáez Jubero. For the People's Group, Mrs Miguélez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u8	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ambassador of Ukraine, I fully agree with the other speakers on the importance of this Partnership Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, a Political Partnership Agreement in which both parties undertake to cooperate and converge in a wide range of areas. Ukraine needs to comply gradually with the European Union's technical and consumer standards, while the Union agrees to provide Ukraine with political and financial support. I would like to recall that Ukraine's relationship with the European Union so far was based on an agreement with the countries of the Eastern Partnership that was born in 2009 to increase the Union's cooperation with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, being precisely in Ukraine where Spain has the only embassy in all these countries of the Eastern Partnership. The new agreement with the European Union is true that it is a far-reaching agreement, covering more than 1,200 pages covering 28 key sectors, but it actually envisages a more ambitious objective than trade: to speed up political and economic relations between the two sides, advancing in the search for an agreement which the European Union itself regards as a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. They have, it is true, been more than two decades in which both sides have sought to establish close ties with each other, because the European Union trusts that the instability of the region can be reduced over time through the necessary economic and socio-political reforms. Ukraine, for its part - why not - also wants to benefit from free trade with the Union and to attract the desired foreign investment, establishing closer links with a Union with which many Ukrainians, although heavy on some, feel a natural connection. It is a treaty that has suffered many vicissitudes, it has already been said here; let us remember the European pressure in 2012 to release the then arrested former Prime Minister Timoshenko for his delicate state of health. All this has led to several times that this convention has stalled in its ratification, until the revolts that culminate in the overthrow of President Yanukovich, in November 2013, precisely caused by his refusal to sign an agreement with the European Union, the second most important trading partner, by the way, of Ukraine. Finally, it has already been said that the context of the negotiation of this treaty has been very difficult. It has been months of strip and loose in which the Ukrainian Supreme Rada has passed the necessary laws to meet the objectives of the Union, always with the opposition - of course, Mr Nuet - of his friends of the Communist Party of Ukraine. In September 2014, the European Parliament finally gave the green light to the agreement, which was ratified - and I would like to draw attention to this - in a joint videoconference ceremony from the Kiev Parliament and the Strasbourg Parliament. The Supreme Rada voted in favour by 351 votes out of 450 deputies. It is a historic moment, in which two parliaments, in the exercise of their independence, decide to vote at the same time the agreement, with the presence in addition to the Ukrainian President Poroshenko. Do you need more gestures to understand what the Ukrainians want? It is a ratification in which the relationship between the European Union and Ukraine is institutionalized and somehow the future of the two is connected. Fourteen other Member States of the European Union before Spain has already ratified this agreement, the last Ireland in January this year, and it is now up to us to support this process from our Parliament, in line with the position of the Spanish Government, because our support means sending a signal of solidarity to Ukraine to choose Europe. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the treaty we ratify today is the recognition of our commitment to the Union, as reliable partners that we are, our commitment to the Ukrainian people and to this pact in which Europe has reached the greatest degree of link it has ever had with its eastern neighbours. A more democratic Ukraine, more stable and more open, something that is behind the effects of the treaty, must necessarily lead to a strengthening of Hispanic relations, although some feel that it is better to leave the Ukrainian people to their fate. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miguélez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u10	We shall now proceed with the direct and single reading of the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on terrorist offences. Sixty-four amendments have been tabled to the joint text. The Board of Spokesmen, on my proposal, agreed that for the defence of each other's amendments and to stand in favour of the other groups there would be interventions of less than fifteen minutes. We begin with the Joint Parliamentary Group, of which, I announce, all the spokesmen of the groups that form it will speak. First of all, Mrs Barkos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u11	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that a week later we are still where we were. I believe that all the formations, beyond the presentation of amendments to a draft that we do not share or in its processing, as I say, we continue where we were; from Geroa Bai, contrary, and it is quite clear, to make the necessary security debate - it insisted last week on this matter; we maintain it today and we want to underline it - exactly that, the debate on the need to take action against a certain threat, which, of course, is not new. One fails to understand very well why this premorse, this precipitation, this necessity, beyond the unfortunate moments experienced recently but which in no way make forget others even more dramatic that occurred a few years ago and just a few meters away from here. Therefore, it threatens certain, that not new. We are also continuing from Geroa Bai to reject that debate being used as an alibi for a cut in civil liberties, which is what we are facing right now. It has therefore not changed anything in a week, if the perplexity that continues to cause us the fact that the urgent procedure has been imposed by a parliamentary majority, but above all perplexity before the substance and form; the procedure and also the language are reversed. Today, among other things, the approval is given - by the way, with the socialist votes; this continues to surprise us, we are no longer in consideration - to the so-called permanent prison reviewable. In short, a subterfuge, an expression trap that hides, and only hides, the reality of life imprisonment. At this point I want to ask myself - beyond the debate of ideas, let's go to practice -: does anyone really pretend that the threat of life imprisonment can prevent the suicide bomber? Does anyone really claim that the whole of society believes that measures of these characteristics have some kind of certain, real effectiveness, on a certain threat, on the subject of this particular sensitivity? Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a bad example of parliamentaryism and legislative activity is being given today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Barkos. Mr Salvador now has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking on behalf of the Navarro People's Union to insist on some ideas that I have already transferred to you last week on the usefulness and convenience of this pact. We are faced with new terrorist threats that, as I heard yesterday from the Director General of the Police, are real, serious, global and persistent in time, and I would add increasing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, new threats, different threats, new answers, different answers. It has not been a week since this very debate we had here and we can now add to the long list of attacks the beheading of twenty-one Coptic Christians on the beaches of Libya, the attack in Tunisia, the attack in Denmark, a statement by jihadists threatening to flood Europe with ships full of immigrants... It is obvious that it is a real and growing threat. For my party to do nothing or be more lukewarm or say that precisely because they do not affect the measures with which we can respond, we should not take any, look elsewhere or seek terminological excuses to face this challenge is not a solution. It seems to us, beyond that, an irresponsibility, because we are going to suffer, whether we want it or not, the consequences of that kind of global civil war of more than three hundred and fifty years that deliver Sunni and Shia. It is a reality and a war that we are certainly not going to solve. We said it then and I repeat it again. We think it is right and appropriate to seek a great political agreement to promote legal measures to combat this phenomenon. It is obvious that we are not going to support all those measures - the vast majority of them - that what they claim is that we do nothing, that things do not change. The corrections that have been made seem correct. As I say, we believe that it is a very consumable pact with a reasonable content and proportionate to the challenge. But it is also not true that we can expect impossible, because those who do not yet condemn terrorism or its crimes can hardly see with good eyes that we are better prepared to combat this same phenomenon. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by thanking the promoters and signatories of this pact for having included a preventive measure, a measure if they want to be pedagogical, to defend our young people from attempts to capture, to indoctrinate in hatred, to radicalise which they could carry out or attempt to condemn for serious crimes of terrorism by regulating and to include in the new Penal Code a special disqualification so that these terrorists condemned for serious crimes cannot be teachers, cannot educate, cannot contact our young people. A disqualification, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, which has been accepted because of its gravity for other types of equally execrable crimes and for other types of criminals such as xenophobics and pederasts, as is stated in the new reform that we are dealing with in parallel with the Criminal Code. We hope that this pact and these changes to the Criminal Code will be useful and serve the only objective, which is to provide us with more security. Ladies and gentlemen, terrorists are grown, organized and determined to end us and our system of coexistence, that is a reality that we must begin to understand, understand and analyse. We believe that we are doing the right thing and that we fulfil our political duty to ensure the safety of our compatriots, if we adapt, as in this case, the criminal response to extreme violence, the extreme gravity and the scope of threats and attacks. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we can achieve this with everyone's commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken on the 10th in connection with the debate on the consideration of this proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code as part of the new measures to combat radical Islamic terrorism. I have listened to the speeches made by your ladies and gentlemen, setting out the various political considerations that deserve them on this subject. These range from the view that this amendment is an excuse for tightening the Criminal Code, to the view that it is addressed to political dissidents on economic, social or political issues, to the view that the technical improvement of the text is necessary because of its farragosity, its generality or its mixture in the operative part. I still believe that we are facing a powerful and serious threat, powerful and serious in intensity and extent, which directly attacks our country and uniquely in its border areas, where jihadist radicalisms grow, using as an instrument of attack the model of globalization and the modern system of transport, dissemination of ideas, images, people and goods. We understand that the fight against Islamic radical terrorism is a matter of State, and this is not disguised as utilitarian cover rhetoric, which requires broad consensus from as many political groups as possible. Consequently, from the very beginning, we express our intention to join in an agreement of the political and parliamentary forces against this terrible threat. For this reason, within the framework of contacts with the People's Group, Forum brought to the future legislative proposal the view that measures of investigation and police action should be explicitly introduced to pursue the origin and development of sources of financing, of individual actions and of terrorist groups, as well as of the arms and explosives markets. The amendment I have tabled is to Article 576. In the first paragraph, the spirit of this provision is to penalize mere activity, without going beyond the active subject, that is, the terrorist. We therefore consider the direct use of terminology by identifying activity with funding to be more appropriate. The wording of the draft, in my opinion, denotes an excessive use of the indeterminate legal terminology, with the problems it entails, which allows for criminal actions aimed at the economic support of this criminal activity to be carried out. In good legislative technique, generality should be avoided, in order to give greater practicality and hence the explicit use of the term financing. We believe that the second, third and fourth paragraphs should be improved technically, avoiding a certain indefinacy or a non-exhaustive relationship of crimes against property, making it more appropriate to abolish it and thus sufficient to use the commission of any other offence - this sentence - while retaining the reference to Title XIII. In relation to the fourth, the aim would be to avoid neglecting the figure of serious imprudence. I am referring to reckless type in accordance with articles 5, 10 and 12 of the Criminal Code. [[The lady]] In short, I believe that, with some contributions that are being presented here by the different groups, we are closer to getting the particular interests to give way to the general interests, as has already happened - I repeat - in the pacts of Ajuria Enea in 1984 or in Madrid in 1987. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u15	Thank you, Mr. Alvarez. By the same group, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. I bring here again a quote from Montesquieu that I have used before, because it seems that the People's Party is committed to making it always current. Montesquieu said: The useless laws weaken the necessary ones. This is a useless, deeply useless law, a reform that was neither necessary nor demanded by anyone, answered by criminalists of all kinds and which also fails to meet the objectives it claims to address, because the existing legal framework in anti-terrorism criminal matters is one of the largest and most severe in Western Europe. Thus, all the criminally reprehensible actions peculiar to terrorism are already in the current Penal Code, what is not and should not be the thought, criminalization of thought, or prosecution of protests as crimes to then increase the purposelessness by applying the march of terrorism to them. Does anyone in his or her right mind believe that any of the measures collected will serve to deter them? Are we going to avoid any real terrorism crimes? What do we really want, to avoid or punish? Dedicating the scarce means available to the security forces to persecute the people who protest, the people who tweet, rather than to investigate and persecute the real terrorists, is a waste. The text highlights that the aim of the proponents is not that described in the explanatory statement, but rather that of all the organizations in the defence of human rights: one more turn to this vicious democracy. I ended up as I started, remembering Montesquieu. There are necessary laws that you do not want to address: payment, the state pact against poverty, the state pact for education or dependency. On the other hand, his parliamentary term ends with a rosary of useless laws that have not contributed to the improvement of the lives of most people; quite the contrary. Frankly, I do not understand PSOE's support for a legal misconception whose hidden, or not so hidden, purpose is to apply restrictions on rights and freedoms to people who dare to protest against state structures, to intimidate them with accusations of terrorism to avoid citizen protests forever. It sometimes reminds me of the name of a series, Lost, a series of which no one understood the end. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Baldoví. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u18	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, from Coalition Canaria I want to show our solidarity with the Danish people, who have had that terrible attack in the last few days. Secondly, I would like to appreciate an amendment, in the sense that this spokesman expressed in the debate under consideration, on a fundamental issue such as the recruitment of women to jihadist war zones for their sexual exploitation and, above all, to contemplate certain figures that were absurd that were less penalized even than sexual slavery. This must be done to prevent young women from being captured, transferred and trained in jihadist terrorism. On the other hand, I wanted to say two things. I believe that Convergence and Union has tabled some very interesting amendments that improve the text, especially the first one it has tabled. I would ask the Socialist Party and the People's Party to make an effort in the time we have left to reach an agreement and that Convergence i Unió, a nationalist party but with a sense of state, join this very important pact. I end by regretting that today, in the first pact in this state legislature, there is neither the Minister of the Interior nor the President of the Government nor the Secretary General of the Socialist Party. I believe that today's date made it necessary for these three people to be in the final debate of this very important bill. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. For the same group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will defend our amendments to this proposal for a law, starting with what we have in connection with an amendment to Article 573. It seeks to provide an objective and concrete definition of the crime of terrorism, away from ambiguities that allow for its punitive, indiscriminate application, according to the policy that the incumbent executive branch wishes to exercise. The amendment, ladies and gentlemen, contains the definitions of international conventions, the UN Framework Convention of 9 December 1999 for the Suppression of Terrorism, accepted internationally and which has served to combat serious attacks and organizations in an effective manner, with a certain instrument, which has therefore not been distorted and manipulated to extend its application indiscriminately. The rest of our amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are deleting different paragraphs of Article 575 and with them we seek to avoid vague, inappropriate definitions of the Criminal Code which, if they remain as they are, will allow a margin of discretion in their application. Ladies and gentlemen, criminal law is subject to the principles of strict legal certainty in order to avoid uncertainty and inconcretion in the application of public punishment. The case law, both constitutional and of the European Court of Human Rights, has repeatedly recalled this: punitive rules must predict with a high degree of certainty the conduct that will be considered to be infringing, as well as the type and degree of sanction that will be imposed. The interpretation provided in the second and third subparagraphs of paragraph 2 rather than giving clarity to the definition of new offences, violates the principles of legality and security of penalties by being diffusely reflected in the essential content of the conduct intended to be punished. In the same way as in Article 575(3), by incorporating a conduct which cannot by itself be regarded as a criminal offence if there are no other circumstances or elements in the presence which indicate with certainty that the claim is participation or collaboration with terrorist organizations. The regulation of the new article 579 bis in the Criminal Code implies an increase in the penalties imposed on each crime of excessive terrorism, which is more than effective than exemplary. Double punishment for certain offences is chosen in the paper where there is no empirical evidence to show that this length and hardness of punishment contributes to the mitigation of crime. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have just explained in connection with the defence of our amendments, we have already announced our vote against this proposal for a law, but we have added, as we have already done in the debate on its consideration, that we cannot support a proposal for a law that is totally and absolutely unnecessary because there are already sufficient measures in Spanish legislation, specifically in the Penal Code, to act in the face of this type of crime, and, on the other hand, because it is ratified, ladies and gentlemen, what is called in the new Criminal Code permanent prison reviewable, which is clearly a life sentence and we believe that this is not a penalty for social reintegration as even in the constitutional text it is dictated in relation to what should be the judicial model of the Spanish State. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us regrettable not since the majority group of the House has made the proposal, your Government has made the proposal for this life imprisonment, taking into account totally and absolutely inapplicable populisms when it comes to legislative matters such as this,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u21	Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u22	... but in this case the Socialist Party, which initially went against it, also gives it a chorus, but it is clear that by ratifying this bill it is ratifying the life sentence. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, less Fernández Díaz and, in all cases, more Minister Alonso. The other day we asked Minister Alonso if he had nothing to say about the jihadist threat, because it would be absurd not to consider that there is a relationship between the enlistment by citizens of this madness and poverty and exclusion, and if they do not look at Ceuta and Melilla. And Minister Alonso's answer was to go down the hills of Ubeda and tell us about ETA's terrorism. Thus, we repeat that no to the pact Socialist People's Party, monument to inefficiency because it does not address the underlying and primitive problems; a monument to cynicism because it is used to shield life imprisonment; a monument to hypocrisy because it points to the Catalan, Basque and Galician independenceists; a monument to opportunism because it serves for Pedro Sánchez to put on a stateman's tux, by the way, after twenty-four hours the tux already made a few rags; and a monument to reaction because it limits and restricts democratic freedoms. That is why, inspired by Amnesty International, we have tabled five amendments, one of which is to abolish life imprisonment and four to reject the violation of the right to freedom of movement, as well as to punish and punish as a crime of terrorism the dissemination of messages and slogans that by their content are suitable for inciting the commission of crimes and terrorism. You know why? By ambiguity, because it may imply an unjustified, disproportionate, unnecessary and illegitimate limitation of the right to freedom of expression. We do not say that incitement to hatred and violence should not be punished, of course, but this is not a crime of terrorism. It can never be considered a crime of terrorism, nor, of course, can serious recklessness be considered a crime of terrorism. Serious recklessness is not a form of terrorism, because it lacks intentionality and therefore does not have a terrorist nature. You are very but very irresponsible, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the People's Party. Do you know what it's worth? May your irresponsibility be paid by all of us, including your children, including your co-religionaries. You put the rule of law in check, cynically using the madness of jihadism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u25	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the same group, Mr Errekondo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u26	The aim of the state is precisely to preserve its own existence, its model of state, and this pact is another example of how the masters of the PP and the Socialist Party act. You are willing to take all kinds of measures to ensure the current status quo. You are even willing to violate your own rule, including international norms such as the democratic rights and freedoms of citizens, and to do so you take advantage of the shock state of citizenship and society and use fear as one of the most powerful tools that manipulate and direct against society to justify the decisions you intend to make. Thomas Hobbes has already said, here the reason of state applies, and with that the state supposedly guarantees security and order, it has the legitimacy to act forcefully against everything that alters and causes disorder. The State, therefore, uses jihadism as an excuse to expand fear as far as it is concerned, but it is not directed against foreign policy, but against internal policy, and as Hobbes said, to apply repressive measures against any act and actors that alter sacrosanct security and order, such as demonstrations or all kinds of protests. But let's talk about life imprisonment or death penalty. Or aren't prisons the option to resocialize prisoners? If so, what sense do you have for forty years of imprisonment or life imprisonment, knowing that this means leaving the prisoner out of any possibility that he may return to society, as you, the PP and the PSOE have agreed? Are they saying that they would sentence Felipe González to life imprisonment as the ultimate perpetrator of State terrorism that has caused dozens and dozens of deaths, as Pedro J. Ramírez said? Do you know that this means death in life or living dead for the rest of your life in prison? So, gentlemen of the PSOE or the PP, deny you jails as a tool to resocialize the prisoner and say what you are really defending: the death penalty, because life imprisonment is that, death penalty but slower and more painful. Socialist Party, who has seen him and who sees him! If you had ever had principles, if you had had the slightest respect for citizenship, at least those who believed in you, you would have raised enough pride and dignity and avoided surrendering and surrendering to the enemy, who is the People's Party. The Socialist Party errs once again and is struck - it becomes a horseshoe - at the feet of the People's Party, which rides with sand in its hand and trampling on the rights of citizens and their freedoms. Moreover, this state pact is not going to help solve the problem of jihadism, at all, because this pact is not anti-jihadist but an anti-citizenship pact. Jihadism is an excuse to further harden a penal code that is the toughest in Europe, and with this you turn any act of political and social protest on the street and even all sovereignist processes, such as Basque and Catalan, into a terrorist. To the trilogy of the anti-jihadist pact, the law gags, the reform of the Penal Code, we must add the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, an entire apisonator of engineering and criminal weapons that seems to have no end against the popular sectors here, which also questions the current neoliberal and territorial model, and also of course against the constituent processes of Euskal Herria, Catalonia and the rest of the State. Post-reform reform has established an undercover state of emergency. We said all they needed was a deal on the curfew. Be clear, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, because you have spoken in different spaces that will open the market for all kinds of state pacts with the People's Party: the state pact for education and betray the commitment that was made to repeal the Lomce; the state pact on energy and betray the commitment that was made to close Garoña. How many state pacts are they going to offer to the People's Party? Clarify yourself at once, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. In conclusion, it must be said loud and clear: we are facing a coup d'état against the rights and freedoms of citizens, a coup d'état against the cry for change and respect for the will of citizens from Euskal Herria, Catalonia and much of the State. We are clear that this state pact is the State's response to the widespread protest by citizens to regain usurped social rights. It is the State's response to the territorial problem, to the nations that defend their political rights and to decide their future freely and democratically, such as Euskal Herria and Catalonia. It is the State's response to shield the current political, social, economic and territorial model imposed by the 1978 regime - I am finishing, Madam President - but it is time for the popular will to give solutions to social and territorial problems. It is time for citizens to decide freely and democratically on all their issues, and repression, which is their only recipe, will not stop it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u27	Mr Errekondo, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u28	It's time for change. I'm done with this last sentence. It is time for change; the change that is already unstoppable in Euskal Herria, Catalonia and the rest of the state. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u29	Thank you, Mr Errekondo. We moved on to the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that this is one of the easiest interventions that I will be undertaking in my already long parliamentary experience. Our group calls for the suppression of all and each of the precepts that make up this proposal for an organic law, this so-called Counter-Terrorism Pact. Of each and every one, which would almost exempt me from continuing to argue because it is already believed that we do not like the pact, but some gloss or comment seems pertinent to do. Madam President, discussing the part of the Penal Code that regulates the most serious crimes and the most complex normative structure in two fifteen-minute shifts is a parliamentary incuria of which the leaders of the Socialist Party and the People's Party have been co-participants. There is no such serious debate in any country in the world, an aspect of the Penal Code as relevant, by this special procedure, as is the single reading procedure; a procedure, as the regulation itself establishes, for rules or parliamentary initiatives of a simple nature and which admit it, but this is not a rule of a simple nature, is a particularly complex one that would have required more consensus than it currently has; the consensus provided by the Socialist Party to the People's Party. Thomas Moro claimed that he would grant the presumption of innocence to the devil himself if he had the basis for granting that presumption of innocence. At this time, and with this proposal for an organic law to reform the Criminal Code, the opposite is true: no one is given the presumption of innocence, everyone is criminalized; conduct that cannot, by its very nature, be the object of criminalization, the object of incorporation into the punitive order is criminalized. It is done by virtue of a pact, if I may, Mr Sánchez, apocryphal - I see that Mr Sánchez is very interested in the debate - because he is linked to some red lines that you have established very clearly, which is the rebuttal of the reviewable life imprisonment; I heard his spokesman's allegation when the Penal Code was debated and it was the best claim against the reviewable life imprisonment or life imprisonment. I listened to the Minister of the Interior curiously on a television program recently that it is not the same life imprisonment as the permanent prison reviewable. It did not make any subtle differentiation, but we all know that they are absolutely synonymous concepts; in fact, all the countries that have constitutionalized life imprisonment have done so in a reviewable way, even in Germany and Italy, where it is constitutionalized, it is reviewed for periods of time which, moreover, conform to the revision periods, not to this draft standard, which already exceeds the jurisprudence or requirements of the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, but to revision periods which are not more than twenty years, which are also exceeded in this draft law. On the other hand, it is a conditional pact, subject to conditions, but, Mr Sánchez, on a resolutory basis. You have promised that when you win the election - when will this be?; we would enter into a complex speculative terrain, just as the political puzzle is currently disordered - they will immediately repeal allusions to the permanent reviewable prison. I hope they can do so, but it is the first state pact that I know of, I do not believe that there is any precedent or consequence, subject to a resolutory condition in one of its main and most relevant aspects, such as the system of penalties; in particular, the system of penalties linked to life imprisonment that can be reviewed. Therefore, it is an apocryphal pact, if I may express it, and improper of your ideological acquis, I say it to you with all humility, because it is you who must identify your ideological acquis in this matter, in the matter of criminal law or the configuration of criminal rules. But, well, we have known the Socialist Party by maintaining diametrically opposed positions not only to the incorporation of life imprisonment in the Criminal Code, but also to the use of criminal law, punitive law, for the resolution of social conflicts by a generalized linear increase, by an expansion of punitive law that affects all the conduct provided for as offences in the Criminal Code and in this proposed law. It is a pact where there is also a genuine legal extravagance, which is to delocalize terrorist offences from the Criminal Code. Legal operators will have to observe and analyse two texts: the Criminal Code, on the one hand, and this proposed organic law, on the other, which is outside the Criminal Code. This is the first time and we are the only country in the world where terrorist crimes are not within the scope of the Criminal Code. These methodological reasons would serve as justification for our refutation of all the precepts that are incorporated into this covenant, but there is more. We have the impression - and I refer to the spokesmen of the People's Group and the Socialist Group - that they underlie electoral or political reasons at the time of the signing of this pact. We have the impression that we are trying, through pacts of this nature, to strengthen leaderships not yet sufficiently strengthened by young people. Mr Tardà has made a very suggestive metaphor in relation to the frac - which he considers to be already torn apart - of statesman by the leader of the Socialist Party, and also to cover up, on the other hand, deficiencies in government management, but, in any case, always - as with terrorism repeatedly - with the search for electoral revenues. From that perspective and with this impression, we cannot endorse a project of these characteristics which has all kinds of shortcomings. The European Parliament has just adopted a resolution setting out the treatment to be given to phenomena such as jihadist radicalism. In a resolution of 2 last month, it states that the global way to deal with the factors underlying radicalization leading to violent extremism is to strengthen social cohesion, strengthen integration, strengthen political and religious tolerance, avoid the creation of ghettos, analyse and counter online incitement to commit terrorist attacks, prevent displacements to join terrorist organizations, etc. At no time does this motion for a resolution of the European Parliament - which is, by the way, signed by the Socialist Group and also by the People's Parliamentary Group - refer to the expansion of punitive reproach, to the expansion of criminal law, as a formula for resolving such conflicts, which are of a very complex etiology, I understand. But, above all, there is a clear invocation of efficiency, information, collaboration between police; collaboration that must be between European police, and where there is more than one police - as in the Spanish State, where there are three integral police - between the integral police of the State. Eleven years ago - Mr Llamazares and I recalled in the debate in the last plenary - there was a brutal jihad attack at several train stations in Madrid with numerous deaths, where we observed that the deficiencies stemmed from something so sanitistic, if not so dramatic the result, as that the explosives used by the terrorists were obtained in a kaolin mines in Asturias - mines abandoned and protected by a dog that lacked teeth - and handed over to the terrorists by police confidants, nothing less than the Commissioner-General of the Oviedo Police. These shortcomings serve, from a police and judicial efficiency perspective, to the sociological reflections of the European Parliament's motion for a resolution to end this etiology and this jihadist phenomenon. On the other hand, the increase in sentences up to reviewable life imprisonment leads to a problem of manifest unconstitutionality. Reform of terrorist offences cannot be ascribed to reviewable life imprisonment, life imprisonment, because it is unconstitutional, among other reasons. Life imprisonment has already been considered unconstitutional by the Minister of the Interior, what I do not know is why he considers the same constitutional thing, which is the permanent, reviewable prison, which violates articles, such as article 10 of the Constitution, which guarantees the dignity of persons; article 15, which prohibits cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment; and article 25, which states that the purpose of deprivation of liberty is the resocialization or social reintegration of offenders. The European Convention on Human Rights is also violated by the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights regarding the review periods. The review periods are broader than what the European Court of Human Rights considers not to incur degrading penalties, as provided for in article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in penalties that absolutely depersonalize individuals, and these penalties that absolutely depersonalize convicted persons are those that last more than twenty years. From that perspective, we do not understand - I would refer, if I may, to the spokesman of the Socialist Group, to its chairman and to the spokesmen of the People's Group - how a state pact can be ascribed - with this prosopopeya but which, however, in the parliamentary debate does not have the scenography of a state pact, as anyone can observe - something unconstitutional, such as life imprisonment, which also contradicts the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights on the duration of sentences and the European Convention on Human Rights, also on the duration of sentences. If that were not enough, it is that technically there is no place to take it - there is no Mr Serrano, who I think has already given up trying to sell what cannot be sold - that the very configuration of the crime of terrorism is manifestly equivocal and erroneous, as long as the crime of terrorism is conceptually defined by a series of elements or requirements such as the subversion of the constitutional order, the functioning of institutions, etc., but a list of conducts that are specific criminal types that have its iuris name and cause terrible legal confusion is incorporated into the crime of terrorism. It cannot be a crime of terrorism all the offences included in this list, making them or transmuting them into terrorist offences when they are crimes of their special type, their specific regulation. Not only do I say that, but I also say that we could quote framework decisions from the European Union, but that it does not make much sense given the distension that at the moment the reflections that this Member is doing are meriting in some areas of the House. Moreover, the problem not only stems from the incorporation into the concept of the crime of terrorism of a list of conducts that are special criminal types, but not even all criminal types that are routinely carried out by terrorists are incorporated. The list of types that conceptually make up the figure of terrorism forgets types such as the Strauss, forgets types such as coercion, forgets types such as kidnapping and, on the contrary, includes other crimes that are not usually committed by terrorists, such as environmental crimes. Secondly, reviewable life imprisonment - we have already commented on how it contradicts the Constitution, how it contradicts the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights - is inevitably linked to this pact. From that perspective, nothing more to say; they are tying a pact, even if it is conditional, to reviewable life imprisonment, to a precept of unconstitutional nature. As for the established system of penalties, the profile of this terrorist phenomenon jihadist relative new wedge is that these terrorists have already discounted their immolation, they have already figured out that they are going to die, they are willing to self-liquidate, then the role of penalties, which consists of general prevention and remuneration, deterrence, is irrelevant in these feuds. Those who are willing to immolate, of course, will not be discouraged either by the incorporation of life imprisonment or by the incorporation of twenty life imprisonments into the Penal Code. However, there is a criminogenic effect that needs to be assessed because it is dangerous, since those who do not immolate themselves, those who do not commit a terrorist offence and others who have a minor involvement in the commission of the crime such as those who exalt, those who advocate this crime, those who cooperate, etc. will be subject to greater criminal sanctions. I'm finishing up, Madam President. On the other hand, this proposal for a law - I feel that it is not Mr Serrano - sets out a kind of configuration of the subjective responsibility of the committees of terrorist offences which is identical to the amortization or criteria used in the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary for the amortization of the very notion of universal justice in the Spanish State. Who can be responsible for the commission of these crimes? Those who have Spanish nationality, those who usually reside in Spain, may be responsible for the commission of these crimes. I believe that the Socialist Party should give a very serious reflection on the scope of subjective responsibility in a bill as important as this. Do you really believe that the subjective scope of responsibility must be equivalent to that which served for the amortization and disappearance of universal justice, of the very notion of universal justice? It is difficult to understand that you make a pact of these characteristics. It is difficult to understand that you abdicate your ideological acquis in criminal matters, or how to configure punitive law, for spurious reasons linked to the need to obtain electoral revenues.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u31	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u32	I'm done, Madam President. But what is hard to believe is that at the moment we are using two texts, the Criminal Code and a proposed organic law that regulates the crimes of terrorism through its foundation on what Jakobs - we told them the other day - calls the criminal law of the enemy. The scientific doctrine and the closest ideologically to you, the members of the Socialist Party, has warned of the dangers of what we are setting up here as the criminal law of the enemy. You are responding to other kinds of considerations. I understand that the elections are very expensive, they are very complicated for everyone, but there are certain red lines - paraphrasing the expression of your spokesman in the Committee on Justice - that you promised you would never pass, one of them was that of the permanent prison reviewable. You have passed it and are endorsing it with this bill, because you do not know when you will win the elections again, neither you nor anyone, nor what will happen in the next legislature in this Congress of Deputies. There we enter the ground of the paranormal or the enigmatic; anything can happen. Don't deceive us, don't make us ideological dribbles of this nature; they're endorsing the reviewable life imprisonment. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u33	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u34	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by giving information, not to your ladies and gentlemen, to those in this House, because that information is not accurate as you know it, but to those who may be listening to us outside this House. What we are discussing today is a proposal for an organic law amending Organic Law 10/1995 of the Criminal Code. You hear me, don't you? We are making a timely reform of the Penal Code, we are not debating a state pact against terrorism, let alone a state pact against jihadist terrorism. I think it is important to recover even the truth in language because, as everyone knows, you start by perverting language and you end up perverting politics; that is, you corrupt language first and then you automatically corrupt politics. Understood, right? We are debating a reform of the Penal Code and not an anti-terrorist pact, let alone an anti-jihadist pact. A reform of the Penal Code, by the way, is sluggish, punctual and sluggish, as I will explain later. We are not in a state debate, ladies and gentlemen, we are just in front of what I have just described to you. Certainly, the power of language, of bad language, the power of advertising, makes the vast majority of Spaniards believe that we are in another debate. I congratulate the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group because they have managed to deceive the citizens once again, in this case on the content of this morning's debate. We are faced with a situation that could be worthy of Orwell's essay The English Politics and Language. Political language, said in that essay Orwell, is designed to make lies seem truths. All this previous debate, all that paraphernalia that was made in La Moncloa to be received and to deceive citizens, is organized so that lies seem truths, to corrupt thought, then corrupt language and finally corrupt politics. The next news I want to give to the citizens who may be listening to us is that once again there has been a lie, a deception on the part of the government of the nation, of the party that supports it - the People's Party - and of course of the party that accompanies them on this journey, the Socialist Party. The minister said in the debate last week, when we were talking about the consideration: I have the hand extended to all the parliamentary groups; I hope to extend the agreement; we will talk to everyone and we will see their proposals, their amendments, their attempts to reform. [[The Lord]] Neither this spokesman who speaks to you nor any member of your group has been called upon to discuss even formally the amendments we have tabled. There has been no acknowledgement of receipt or the slightest education, the same as parliamentarianism, because we have tabled some amendments, we have publicly said that we intend, we have given our hand. I do not know whether he has passed on to the Minister of Justice, with that hand he gave us here in last week's debate, as with the papers of the cause of Bárcenas, the deletion of the records, which has also lost his hand; just as it seems that they have lost the papers of the deletion of the cause of Bárcenas, it has also been forgotten, it has not reached with the hand where it was to arrive, that it is the parliamentary group that speaks to them to discuss even formally their amendments. Having said that, as we are dealing with a timely reform of the Criminal Code, I will insist on the content of the amendments because, since it is a Criminal Code, we have wanted to reform it at least by correcting some of its fundamental problems; the most important is the one arising from article 573 bis 1.1, which, due to its indefinite nature, causes such legal uncertainty as will cause conflict, as I will explain below. If we were to accept the amendment, this reform would be nothing more than a reform, it would not turn it into a state pact against terrorism, but it would solve the serious problem of legal insecurity and unconstitutionality that exists because of the way in which article 573 bis 1.1 has been written. Because, for not wanting to put in that article permanent, reviewable imprisonment, which will be the penalty that will apply to that crime described, so that these gentlemen who sit on the left side of the rostrum join this chastisement, what is caused is enormous legal uncertainty which is also a cause of unconstitutionality. What does it mean that there is legal uncertainty in a Criminal Code that can also be a cause of unconstitutionality on such an important issue as a reform that regulates the punishment of terrorist offences? It means that the lawyers of the terrorists, particularly the lawyers of the terrorists with berets, will be rubbing their hands at the moment. Of course they won't give the song, but they'll be thinking they'd have to vote for it, although they don't want to vote for it because they don't give the song. This legal uncertainty will cause that sooner rather than later, especially if it goes to the Constitutional, but if it doesn't too, it starts to ask for revisions of sentence, and those 40 years that exist today for terrorist crimes will start to be 20 or 30, and that revision of sentence will result in us starting to see those terrorists who today were subject to a much fairer and, of course, much safer Criminal Code. That, ladies and gentlemen of my right and left, will be a shame and a circus. Some who have intervened against today, who would have deserved a Goya of interpretation, will be rubbing their hands, because what you have done here, in that article - do not express after the crime the applicable penalty -, that indefinition you have done, unique in all the penal codes of the world - and you know it well - will bring serious and serious consequences. You're irresponsible, you're truly irresponsible. Not only is it not a pact against terrorism, even if you want to call it that, but this reform of the Criminal Code generates such insecurity, it generates such advantages for the lawyers of terrorists and for terrorists, that you will be guilty, not responsible, of the consequences. You are irresponsible, just so as not to put in this article just what it is: that for the serious crimes of terrorism will be applied to you the permanent prison reviewable. Since they do not want to put it for the complexes of these gentlemen on my left and their interest in deceiving the citizens to make it look like it is not, the consequences will be paid by all the Spaniards and the beneficiaries will be the terrorists with beret particularly, but also those of the turban, who will come later because the same will apply to them. As I was saying, it seems absolutely embarrassing and irresponsible to me. They may accept that amendment, that of 573 bis.1.1.o, which, as I say, would not turn what is not an anti-terrorist pact into an anti-terrorist pact, because let me add something else - this for the citizens who may be listening to us -. In Spain there have been two anti-terrorist pacts, one by Ajuria Enea and the other by the 2000 Pact for Freedoms and Counter-Terrorism. In neither of them - in either of them, huh? - there's any punitive description. Neither because those who discussed them and signed them knew that the Counter-Terrorism Pact was not where crime and punishment had to be described. That is, we call the Counter-Terrorism Pact what it is not and in the reform of the Penal Code, where we do have to describe the crime and the penalty, which is what it is, we do not describe it because we want to call it something else and because we want those gentlemen to sit with you to sign it. A huge irresponsibility, as I say. Another inconsistency that goes into another amendment that we have tabled relates to the contradiction that exists with the reform of universal justice. There is an incongruity, there is a recognition of the Spanish courts to prosecute foreigners who pass through Spain. It seems good to us, but it is contrary to the reform of the Universal Justice Act. It is an amendment that is not ideological - the previous one, by the way, neither - is logical. If you want to reform the Criminal Code, do it right, and if you want to reform the Universal Justice Act, do it right. That is why we ask you to reform it within this law that brings us here for review today, simply to reform a law that you had passed before, in this case through the Organic Law of the Judiciary. I have referred to two amendments. The other four amendments are actually the same because they want more economic resources, precisely to prevent and prosecute terrorism. We are all overwhelmed by what is happening in countries around us and by the attacks, yes, jihadists, which have happened first in France and this past week in Denmark. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what has failed in Denmark and France, the Criminal Code with which acts of terrorism or prevention could be condemned? What have the authorities and all those who are writing these days about what has happened, about the attacks in Denmark? That there have not been enough intelligence services to prevent risk, enough human resources to prevent through intelligence services the risk, which there have failed, that there we are failing. In Spain too. If you want to help be more effective in the fight against terrorism, we invest in human resources, in professional resources. We invest in this, in intelligence services, in human and material means. That's effective. What do we propose with the amendments? We do not pose a deorbited thing to them, but absolutely consumable and above all absolutely necessary. We propose that the EUR 359 million that we have cut over the past four years be recovered so that we have at least the same resources as we had four years ago to combat terrorism as a whole. This is not a novelty, because the threats against freedoms and democracy, against plural society, derived from the actions of terrorism, the mortal enemy of democracy, are not new. So, let us not cut into material and human means, invest in intelligence services, give tools to the police and the Civil Guard to pursue and be able to catch terrorists, and at least be effective in that. That is what the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy wanted to explain and wants to say to them. We will not - I know very well - get citizens to know that we have discussed a timely reform of the Criminal Code here today. We will probably not get citizens to know that, in addition to being a timely reform of the Criminal Code, it is a sluggish reform of the Criminal Code. We will probably not be able to get the citizens to know that this harsh reform of the Criminal Code gives terrorists advantages rather than more inconveniences. We will not get the citizens to know that it generates great legal insecurity and that this great legal insecurity will be exploited by the lawyers of the terrorists to put our democracy and our courts in jeopardy. We will not get you to know that there is no material and human means - there is no one - and that there are no new or better instruments to pursue terrorism, but we will get you to know, at least it will be in the "Diary of Sessions", that here there was a parliamentary group that wanted the truth to succeed, that wanted you not to deceive us with language, that you did not pervert, that you did not corrupt language so as not to corrupt your own policy and that we did not help you to deceive all the Spaniards. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. In order to present his amendments and defend his position, I have the floor for the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, what's wrong is bad. This proposal for a law was born with a clear bipartisan will, with the intention of circumventing the controls required by an organic law and avoiding a calm and in-depth parliamentary debate. That was their goal and, unfortunately, that's how it's going to end. Go ahead again, once again, our long-standing commitment to the fight against terrorism. In the parties that we are part of the Group of the Plural Left there is neither neutrality nor tolerance against terrorism, nor comfort in the opposition, accusations that were made to us last Tuesday by the spokesman of the People's Group to all those who did not sign the pact. Here, ladies and gentlemen, what is at present is a debate of great importance to the present and future of our country. The debate is about which policies are most useful in combating terrorism in its new forms and the debate is about what limits criminal policy should have in a free society in its fight against terrorism. That is what today's debate is about. It is true that jihadist terrorism requires adjustments in counter-terrorism policies and requires greater efforts, especially on the ground that does not address this anti-terrorism pact, in the area of research and prevention, which requires more cooperation from police and intelligence services and much more conflict with sources of funding and against States that finance and sponsor terrorism around the world. Unfortunately, it is the fight against the financing of terrorism that the Government does not want to enter and that this proposal does not address. Let us not forget that tax havens act as true shrines for terrorists, but for our societies they are tax shrines that terrorists share with worthy investors, white-necked criminals and corrupt and mafias of all kinds, and that is the problem that unfortunately does not want to tackle the fight against these tax sanctuaries in depth. That is also one of the serious problems in decapitating terrorism in its origins. The progress in the fight against jihadism does not go through this reform of the Criminal Code, so in this mock parliamentary procedure at this time the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left has put forward amendments to delete the text and we are therefore going to give our opinion against some of the amendments that have been tabled and against the whole text that appears to be coming out of this House. We insist on the unnecessary nature of this law and remind you that the arguments that have given us - the actions against lone wolves or against terrorists displaced to countries that defend terrorism - are conduct that can already be pursued under the current Penal Code. It was explained and demonstrated by my colleague Gaspar Llamazares last week with specific data on criminal proceedings that have been initiated against these specific situations. That can already be done. The attempt to endorse this bill in the United Nations Security Council resolution of September 2014 does not stand up, it is a trap without support. You know that what the United Nations has said is that States should check whether their criminal laws are sufficient, it does not say anything about extending the definition of terrorism to the point of scorn or, of course, incorporating life imprisonment through the back door. Ladies and gentlemen, we must say - and that society knows this because if it is not going to think that nothing has been done in the face of terrorism so far - that Spain already has one of the toughest anti-terrorism laws - listen - which equates a crime tried with consummate, authorship and participation, which penalizes provocation, conspiracy, proposition to terrorism - including the individual - which penalizes the capture, indoctrination, training, elevation, training and justification of terrorism, including the humiliation of the victims, with penalties that can reach the age of 40. Legislation with a procedural regime of suspension of rights such as incommunicado detention and deprivation of the right to legal defence; a regime which, by the way, has been denounced by some international bodies as having intrinsic risks that may entail a violation of rights. Does it seem to you that there is little punitive arsenal of what exists today in our legislation against terrorism to expand it with the excuse of the fight against jihadism? You do not help the rule of law, you do not help a sincere fight against terrorism. The ghastly definition of terrorism further devalues terrorism, such conduct, and so was my colleague Gaspar Llamazares: If terrorism is everything, terrorism is nothing. Some of us have been against the frivolous use of the word terrorism, for example, when it has been used for business terrorism or labour terrorism; it is certainly very reprehensible conduct, but it cannot be used because when one abuses that concept colloquially what he does is to devalue the social gravity of terrorism. If that is the case in the discussions and the colloquiums, imagine what it means to bring this culture of degradation of the terrorist concept itself to the scope of the Penal Code itself. It devalues and devalues the social struggle and social delegitimization of terrorism. We therefore insist on these issues and want to enter into some of the assessments of the amendments put forward by other groups. Despite the attempt to amend itself of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, I must tell you, with respect but clearly, that the wording they propose is unacceptable because, in some cases, under the appearance of technical improvements, the only thing that it does is to deepen further in this concept of desperation, of the demise of the terrorist concept. In Article 576(1) the definition of the offence of possession of property that could be used for terrorist attacks uses up to seven different verbs, but in substance it maintains a wording that is absolutely indeterminate as to what exactly that means. I don't know about you, but when I studied law, in the faculty I was told that the most important of the criminal type, that is, of what defines a criminal conduct, is the clarity to avoid abuse and insecurity, not only of the one who is persecuted, of whom he is accused or prosecuted, but also of society itself, of the rule of law itself. A criminal type must be clear, diaphanous and precisely define the conduct that is intended to be penalized without giving rise to dubious interpretations and you do exactly the opposite with your approach. There is a text on what terrorism - I insist, listen - is going to facilitate if one wants the persecution as terrorism of acts that are only mobilization actions against the prevailing political system and that is not an exaggerated interpretation on my part. I return to article 573. It qualifies as terrorism - listen well, have you really read it? -, among other things, attacks on property through coercion that may involve the seizure of aircraft or means of collective transport with the aim of forcing the public authorities to carry out an act or to refrain from it. I can assure you that with this typology that you make of terrorism you can produce barbarities like the following - two that are in the memory of our country, a recent one -. For example, the occupation by the workers of the runways at El Prat airport to force a certain decision of the public authorities, which caused a major conflict of public order and airport transport, can be considered as being considered, from a social point of view or from a criminal point of view, but will you agree that this is not terrorism? Well, with what you are going to approve today, that is also terrorism. Going a little further, and referring to my colleagues in the PSC who know him well because some of his protagonists are leaders of the PSC, when the neighboring leaders of Nou Barris of Barcelona, who in the years of the democratic transition asked and demanded that public transport be taken to their neighborhoods and did not get it, forced the kidnapping of buses to make the route they wanted to follow and kept them kidnapped until the public power guaranteed them to give them a transport line. That, which was a social mobilization, which can be considered anything, with its text adopted today, is also terrorism. Look at you, neighboring leaders of Nou Barris in Barcelona, whom the citizens admire as true myths, because thanks to them improved their living conditions, with this Penal Code some prosecutor with excessive zeal can consider and accuse them of terrorists. So there are some more examples. I have to refer specifically to the amendments of the Convergence and Union Group. I hope it is by mistake but have you seen what you have done in your amendment to Article 573a(4)? They help that confusion, they permanently confuse this bill with the Criminal Code and they equal public disorder to terrorism.Look at that!, I even hope that you will vote against your amendment because if not any day of these will apply it to you in Catalonia. Be careful about that. That has to do with the despicable concept of terrorism. Third element. You establish the crime of suspicion. I mean, you don't have to commit acts to commit a crime, you just have to have the suspicion of committing them. That is what happens in article 575, with all that makes reference to anyone who visits regular web pages, etc. being presumed to be a terrorist. Do you realize that some social researchers can see, at least, the fear that they will be confused with terrorists? But, even if they are not social researchers, even if they are candidates for terrorism, do they not think that it is much better for those people, who are likely to fall into the networks of terrorism, to be implemented some preventive, social policies that prevent them from entering those networks? Or is the solution to put them in jail before they're criminals? Don't you know that prison is the main crime university, including the terrorists? That's where terrorists socialize their practices a lot too? Please, the crime of suspicion, no. You can't convict someone on suspicion that he's going to commit a crime in the future. Finally, the crime of terrorism on account of serious recklessness. Can someone commit recklessness when driving a vehicle, but do you really believe that you can be a terrorist without knowing it and without wanting it, simply because you have committed acts that are used by others, without knowing it by the person who commits them, to commit terrorist acts? That's in that bill. Please be aware that a barbarity is about to be committed from the point of view of the rule of law, and that is what cannot be. I end with a reflection from the utmost respect. I do not share the Socialist Group's arguments to justify that this is not life imprisonment but only permanent, reviewable prison and that when they come in they will remove it, but it is legitimate. However, let me tell you that there is one thing that seems very serious to me, which is the legitimation of the express procedure for passing laws of this nature. Listen to what I'm going to read to you: The People's Group has every right in the world to make proposals for legislation, to which it has no right is to use the bill as a shortcut, as a trap to prevent substantial legal changes to the fundamental and constitutional rights of Spaniards, which also clearly affect human rights, from being made without reports and mandatory advice. Those words were spoken just a year ago, on 11 February 2014, by socialist spokesman Soraya Rodríguez in the debate on the bill to abolish universal justice. I cannot agree more with that, but let me tell you that I hope you agree that it is a shortcut and a trap when the People's Party does it and it continues to be a shortcut and a trap to democracy when the People's Party and the Socialist Party do it, because otherwise you will find that you will not have the authority to criticize the abuse of absolute majority by the People's Party. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Politics certainly needs a pact, without a pact there is no policy, especially when it comes to such transcendent issues, but politics also requires ideology, and in the area of criminal law, which is the most ideological of all rights, it is a deeply class right, it must be very clear what ideology is. I fully understand that the People's Party defends this proposal of law, it is part of its genetics. The People's Party, the party of criminal populism, has made throughout its history the worsening of penalties, a concept of criminal law that ignores reintegration and replaces it with revenge, its policy to give satisfaction to those citizens to whom with one hand it takes away rights and with the other it offers them food and tranquility to satisfy the bile that causes certain crimes. But that, which is part of the criminal populism genetics of the People's Party, I sincerely believe that it can never, ever be in the behaviors of the left, among other things, because I do not know any political battle that has been won by assuming the ideology of the adversary, and that seems particularly serious to me because a tactical movement can never mortgage the future of policies, especially in the criminal sphere. Now I'm really done, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask the Convergence Group to unite, from absolute respect, that I do not vote in favour, or rather, that there be no confusion between you, that you vote against the text that is coming out of this House, because otherwise some may say that, if this is the way to build state structures, you better not try. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u37	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Jané has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, since Convergence i Unió, we would like to reiterate once again before the plenary of the Congress of Deputies that the action of this parliamentary group has always been an unequivocal manifestation of support for everything that is aimed at tackling terrorism; this has always been the position of Convergence i Unió, at tackling terrorism, at tackling new and dangerous forms of international terrorism, and at doing so from the consensus, from the legal rigour and complying with the international rules that also mark the way forward. This has therefore been and will be the action of Convergence and Union in the fight against terrorism. And in the face of this unequivocal action, in the face of this unequivocal road map of our parliamentary group in the fight against terrorism, today, in this debate, what has been happening since Convergence i Unió we believe that never, on an issue such as terrorism, should have taken place. This debate today is an absolutely different debate from the purpose you claim to be because you have made a bipartisan agreement, you have done it behind the back of the rest of the parliamentary groups. Once agreed, once solemnized and even published with a meeting between the socialist and popular spokesmen with the respective ministers, it is from then on that the rest of the groups are invited to make contributions to a pre-cooked agreement on an important issue on which, I repeat, there must always be the maximum consensus, which is the fight against terrorism. These hasty forms have then been kept in the process of drafting the amendments that we are discussing today, because no one has called Convergence i Union in case we want to agree on any joint amendments. You too, PSOE-PP, PP-PSOE, agree on the amendments, without opening the possibility that some of them could have been signed together with other groups. You have done it your way, and in your way, what is it? Bringing it to the plenary, with a single reading and by urgent procedure, without report, without opinions, directly, without having passed through the Committee on Justice and without having had a calm and calm presentation, which is what all criminal reform requires. Those hasts are never good, but when we look at those hasts in this process, today we want to say from my group - we had already warned last Tuesday - that there are aspects in which we can agree and vote that yes and aspects that we do not like and to which we would vote clearly that no, but this cannot be done today either, because with this one reading procedure they force a single vote when we are talking about a reform of the Criminal Code. Is such a rush necessary? Someone might think that our penal system is not prepared for the fight against terrorism, but we have to remember once again that much of the duties were already done. Therefore, we cannot understand the hurry that today is exerting on this legislative reform of the Criminal Code. Because there is an important Framework Decision, the Decision of 13 June 2002, which was amended on 28 November 2008, and I would like to remind all of you that Convergence i Unified was there and voted yes, and the Penal Code was reformed following the last amendment of the Framework Decision of the European Union to combat terrorism. Following the last amendment, it was legislated with the Organic Law 5/2010 of 22 June on the reform of the Criminal Code, and with that reform that was made with previous Governments and which our group voted in favour were already being given instruments to actively combat terrorism. Today it may seem that much of the reforms that are agreed are due more to a shared slogan that we are fighting terrorism than to a real legislative need for that to be strictly what is required of us by the imperative of adapting to the European Union. Let us not, therefore, make false publicity here today of what this reform entails. We also said that when we did not object to your consideration from my group. We said it very clearly, we pointed out: We do not object to the consideration, but that no one is confused - we said -, it does not consist or mean that we endorse the content of this proposal of law. And what we said last Tuesday we reaffirm today. There are aspects of this bill that our group cannot endorse, which our group does not share. I will give you some examples, some of which obviously coincide with what other parliamentary groups have said. Article 573 bis 1.1 is in the process of being legislated by referring it to a permanent, reviewable prison. To support this article is to endorse the reviewable permanent prison. It can be done indirectly or directly, but on one aspect of the reform of the Penal Code since Convergence i Unió we have always said - in particular our rapporteur Monsterrat Surroca - clearly, clearly, that we did not endorse the permanent prison reviewable, because it was a concept of difficult fit into the Constitution, since it was a clearly imprecise term that could even violate legal certainty. We therefore oppose that reviewable permanent prison, and today we oppose article 573 bis 1.1.o. Even yesterday the president of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, Judge Juan Luis Ibarra, told us the following from the judiciary: that this permanent prison is a contradiction in itself because if it is permanent it cannot be reviewed. It considers that it is a life sentence that may raise questions of constitutionality and end up in the Constitutional Court. This is not said by Convergència i Unió, but by the president of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, who also stated that something is being talked about - when we approach the permanent prison reviewable - that was rejected at the constitutional moment because it goes against the goal of reintegration. Facilitating the content is not to endorse it, facilitating processing is not to endorse the content. Let me give you an example: we do not endorse or endorse that reviewable permanent prison. We do not endorse or endorse the wording you have given to Rule 573, we said it last week and we reiterate it today. This article can lead to an over-expansion of what is meant by the crime of terrorism, and we do not share it. We agree with an amendment that will be adopted today to remove public disorder from all crimes that can mutate to terrorist crimes. In that regard, we agree that it was one more element that could harm interpretation. I ask the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group to reconsider, to seek a solution in accordance with the constitutional framework and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which calls for us to be rigorous when reducing the criminal rates. What do we ask of them? We are narrowing down types of terrorism and in doing so we cannot ignore that it is the means and not the purpose that make terrorism a crime. Therefore, either we are faced with violent means or there is no crime of terrorism. Thus, we ask you serenity; the one we have not been able to have with these haste, although now they tell me - I am grateful - that we are going to try in the Senate. I am grateful to the Socialist Group because I know that it expressly shares that will to introduce that element of violent means when we talk about terrorism. I thank the Socialist Group for symbolically abstaining in the vote on our amendment 43 in order to find a solution, because we all agree to punish terrorism but not to punish as terrorism what is not. That dangerous extension, which departs from the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, must therefore be reviewed and corrected. We believe from Convergence and Union that today we would still be in time to introduce that amendment to ensure that terrorism is by violent means. The Socialist Group pointed out that we can move forward in the Senate; we could even move forward in this plenary, but as there is so much haste - one reading, quick, voting it all at once and at a stroke - this is not what Convergence and Union demanded and we censored it once again. We say that we do not endorse the content either in aspects that may even seem very new but that force us to re-think everyone. When it comes to punishing with a criminal type of terrorism those who browse the Internet by accessing certain pages we have to be very cautious, for a principle of legal certainty and for which we must consider a final type. Convergence and Union requires here a certain caution, a certain revision. We do not share that mere navigation can finally be regarded as a crime of terrorism; we do not consider it, we do not share it. On the other hand, we agree with article 578.2, in which the term "terrorist" means - and the penalties are aggravated - a person who carries out a dissemination of services or content accessible to the public, by means of the media, the Internet or electronic communications services. Evidently, he who spreads yes; he who navigates no. Let's think about it. We ask the Socialist Group and the People's Group to do so. With this intention of including everything in terrorism we can find ourselves with criminal consequences that no one wants. We are legislating on an issue that should - I repeat - have the greatest consensus, the greatest acceptance. Therefore, we do not share this aspect either. Mr Coscubiela, when we speak of rebellion and sedition, we ask that this paragraph be deleted. If there's been a misinterpretation, I use it to clarify it here. Our amendment is one of suppression, which is precisely why it can lead us not to ensure that there is terrorism if there are violent means; but without such violent means we can never accept that there is a crime of terrorism. Therefore, we were and are always in favour of effective measures that contribute to the fight against terrorism - Convergence i Unió has always done so - but we cannot share aspects that are included today in this proposal of law, with the haste or perhaps with the prepotence of a bipartisan pact - so they no longer need, it is evident that you have the seats left to approve today this proposal of law -. We cannot understand that in Article 577(3) you understand that there may be the possibility of committing a crime of collaboration with a terrorist organization or group in a responsible or reckless manner. Nor can we share this wording. From Convergence i Unió they are asked to rectify, that in the process of the Senate a broader consensus is sought, that those aspects that can generate legal uncertainty are corrected. I repeat that what we have always done has been to support the fight against terrorism, to support reforms that will seriously tackle terrorism. We are with the European framework decisions, we are with the UN Security Council resolution itself adopted on 24 September 2014; we are with them, with that concern shared by the entire international community towards those new forms of terrorism that threaten us all. To them we must lead our fight, but let us do so without pre-potency and with legal rigour, from the very highest consensus, not as they have done today, not as the People's Group and the Socialist Group, the Socialist Group and the People's Group are bipartisanly proposing to us today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mr Antonio Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a canonical work on terrorism, the Dictionary of Terrorism, by José María Benegas, the entry Islamism and terrorism is preceded and succeeded by two other entries; the previous one is the entry IRA, Irish terrorist organization disappeared, and it happens to Iturbe, Domingo, Etarra, organization also defeated. Islamism and Islamist terrorism are present; it is very present in our societies, and that is what we have come to talk about. The history of Spain, our history, is framed by these two realities: that of our terrorism. Surely, people learn the best techniques through our history. Therefore, in dealing with the reform of the Criminal Code on terrorism, the first thing we should be conditioned on is that history, which in our case is suffering for too long. It is a story marked by the death of anonymous and innocent citizens; also of innocent soldiers and police, prison officials, judges, prosecutors, councillors; splashed bombs, shots to the neck, broken cars, broken homes, broken lives and families, broken freedoms; many funerals, at first funerals almost clandestine funeral processions and then gigantic manifestations of rejection. For years we have written manifests of condemnation; statements of reprobation without palliatives and nuances; great and small statements, sometimes united and sometimes disunited; sometimes together, but critical, and other critics but accompanying one another in pain and in rejection of terror. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a terrible story but it has ended well because it has meant the triumph of freedom, life and democracy over the terror, death and dictatorship of the violent. Our freedom has been imposed on the fear they wanted us to inoculate. It's an unforgettable but fortunately unrepeatable story. With that story, it is with which we, behind our backs, are approaching this reform of the Penal Code today. We reform laws when we have to improve them, when we have to adapt them to problems, when they no longer serve us to treat them with the finesse they require. [[Rumors]] It is true - as has been said here - that jihadist terrorism already existed in Spain; unfortunately it is not an unknown to us. That is precisely why an agreement should have been easier today, because we have already been victims of jihadist terrorism; because on 11 March we were victims of this brutal outburst; because we will never forget the trains exchanged in iron mashings that became huge coffins. Unfortunately, we too - as before the New Yorkers, the Londoners, the British, the French, the Danes - have been victims of jihadist terrorism, although the biggest victims remain the citizens of Muslim countries. Such terrorism has evolved; it is no longer the same as in 2004, 2005, or 2001. There are now entire areas, whole regions, of Syria controlled by terrorist gangs. There was no Al Qaeda and all its franchises in Africa. There was no Boko Haram kidnapping 200 girls to enslave them. We had not seen so far massive throats on the beaches, or cut journalists' necks, or burn hostages alive; that did not exist so far, ladies and gentlemen. In a week we have seen the cruelty, the brutality of jihadist terrorism. We have it before our eyes, and that requires us to act. After the 11-M we were able, ladies and gentlemen, to reach agreements. The 11-M Commission was very convulsive. Some of those who have intervened here today participate in it. [[Rumors]] Look, we never came to agree on the conclusions - what happened, how it happened - but there was one thing we agreed on in the Committee of Inquiry on the 11-Minister, in the recommendations. We agreed; I reviewed the "Diaries of Sessions" of that time: 330 votes in favour, 330 votes cast. We agreed on what had to be done, because what had happened had happened, and today we should agree on what had to be done, because very serious things are also happening in Denmark, France and other countries. After those recommendations - yes, sir - the Penal Code was amended and many other things were done: coordination organizations were set up, means were provided. We do not start from scratch, Mr Jané; indeed we do not start from scratch. In these eleven years things have been done, many indeed; they have been done well. Neither then nor now is it being hotly legislated. Then it was legislated because it was necessary to do so, and now it is, too, to perfect things. It's about following that path, because we should always go ahead with terrorists, but that's not always easy. That is why, at least, what we have to do is react as soon as possible, amend laws as soon as possible, especially when we are being asked, as is happening, by the United Nations Security Council since September. Jihadist terrorism does not have the same subscription, it does not have the same ideology, it does not have the same formation as the terrorisms we have known so far. We have witnessed major operations in recent years. Someone here said this is good enough. No, it's no use, ladies and gentlemen. In recent years we have attended important... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u41	Forgive me, Mr. Hernando. I pray silently, and do not corrode in the halls. The one who doesn't want to hear him go to the bar. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u42	In recent years we have witnessed important police operations of detention of fifteen, twenty or thirty people, resulting from the investigations of Intelligence, and then they had to be released, because there was no suitable criminal type for what they were doing to be classified as a terrorist crime, even though they knew what they were doing, where they were coming from and where they were going. Therefore, we did not have the appropriate legal instrument, of course we did not have it. What we intend to do with this new wording of the Criminal Code is to meet these needs. Some spokespersons who have come to this rostrum have been talking about the first bill put forward by the People's Group. Things have already disappeared from this reform of the Criminal Code, which shows that some have not read directly how this bill is currently being proposed. Everything exaggerated is trivial, but sometimes when exaggeration is treacherous it becomes ridiculous; and here things have been said that are certainly ridiculous. Some of the speakers this morning - whom I have in high esteem, which is why I know they are far above what they have said, which is like saying that they do not believe what they have said - have pointed out things that make no sense with regard to the intention underlying this reform of the Criminal Code. In this process of amendments we are going to exclude public disorder. For us it was important to exclude it, so that no one has the slightest doubt that protests such as that of Gamonal or the enslavements do not constitute terrorist offences. That it was impossible to make that interpretation, but for no one to have any doubt we will exclude it. We are going to abstain in Amendment 43 of Convergence i Union for its hypersensitivity on the subject, not because we believe that there is no doubt that this type can be applied to conduct that is not strictly terrorist and also with the intention that we can continue with the dialogue in the Senate. Anyone who intended to apply these types for conduct that might violate freedoms knows that they cannot do so. The Criminal Code provides for severe penalties for the public authority or official who commits offences of illegal detention or offences against constitutional guarantees. In order for any of these crimes to be considered terrorism, it will also be necessary for certain purposes to be carried out. The diffuse ends have disappeared, Mr. Coscubiela. That's already gone; that's already gone last week when we raised this. He's talking about the text a month and a half ago, not the current one. By the way, the purposes of this Act are already in the Criminal Code, they already have a jurisprudential construction or interpretation, they are provided for; and they are even provided for in Article 1 of the Council of Europe Framework Decision of 2002. We're not altering anything. When it comes to seriously disrupting public peace and saying that this is a very serious concept... That already exists in our legislation, that has already been sufficiently interpreted by the Constitutional Court, which has shaped a concept of terrorism on the basis of the purpose of spreading a certain situation of insecurity, on the repetition of terrorist activities, with an intrinsic capacity to produce terror. There is one aspect of this reform in which I want to stop, because many things have been said about my group's position on this issue. The reviewable permanent prison was approved in solitary confinement by the People's Parliamentary Group on 21 January and is now in the Senate; it was precisely one of the reasons why the Socialist Group's deputies voted against this reform. By the way, not all those who said they were opposed voted against; some were not, because they directly considered that they had more important things. Our opposition to the reviewable permanent prison has motivated the deletion from the text of this proposed law of the attribution of that reviewable permanent prison sentence to terrorist offences in which a person is killed, replacing it with a specific reference. It's not an indeterminate reference. It is a concrete reference because there is only one, not twenty-one prison sentence; there is one. Therefore, there is determination, concreteness. The adoption of this law itself would not entail the penalty of deprivation of liberty that can be reviewed. This will in any case be when the Penal Code is finally adopted, as will certainly be the case with the rest of the aggravated murders. It was not very reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, that a terrorist who entered a supermarket, stole, hit four shots and killed four people, would be given - in this architecture - the maximum penalty of permanent reviewable imprisonment, when that same one entered the supermarket and blew it up in the air we would apply a penalty of thirty years. If we had succeeded in convincing the People's Group of that, we would have done an absolute legal destruction because in this architecture this was necessary. If it applied to ordinary aggravated murders, it had to apply to aggravated terrorist killings. For us, ladies and gentlemen, this reform is the first product of a broader agreement, to which I shall now refer, and that agreement includes a major discrepancy between the Socialist Group and the reviewable permanent prison sentence. In that agreement we did not want to separate the discrepancy, nor to park it, nor to circumvent it; we have integrated it. This difference is included in the pact, in the agreement and assumed by the parties, recognizing both that the future change of the penalty for maximum deprivation of liberty will not affect the validity of the agreement. There is no resolutory condition, therefore. There is nothing; on the contrary, nothing is solved. It is the greatness of politics in this case, ladies and gentlemen, that allows us to integrate that difference. I believe that the ability to assume differences and integrate them in order to achieve a higher end is one of the virtues that we are losing today, at a time when we are going to have to do a lot of politics. Perhaps in trenches like these we should, instead of thinking of a headline or a tweet, remember the capacity for the agreement that our predecessors developed in these seats during the Transition. Some here today have described it as the regime of 78, and it is surely the best and most successful pact of coexistence in the history of Spain. Those who came from absolutely opposite political universes were able to integrate differences by doing politics, and this is one of the virtues and grandeurs of this covenant. I now turn to the last part of my speech, and it would not be honest to do so if I did not appoint the Agreement to strengthen unity in defence of freedoms and in the fight against terrorism, signed with the Government. We subscribe, as has been said, to the Madrid Pact, the Ajuria Enea Pact, the 2000 Pact for Freedoms and Counter-Terrorism, and now we have also signed it. We pushed and signed this pact in a certain political context, after murders in Paris, after murders also last week in Denmark. Ladies and gentlemen, does it make sense to stand together under the same slogan and share identical repulses if this initial unity is then left in a solemn declaration? The context in which we subscribe to this is not baladi. We should have learned lessons from what has happened over the years. We promoted the 2000 pact, and in it we said that, whether we were in the government or in the opposition, we wanted to take responsibility for the anti-terrorist policy, and we have done so again; we are, because we are the left who wants to take responsibility for the important things of the Spanish government, we are in the opposition or in the government. [[Applauds]] The first product of that pact, ladies and gentlemen, is this reform of the Criminal Code, which had certainly been pushed forward before, but which, precisely, we removed from there because we knew that we were going to oppose the reform of the Criminal Code. We told the Government and the People's Group: We are going to try to reach an agreement on this issue, which is vertebral; they agreed to do so and we started working. In the agreement we have left the door open for more parties to join in the future; so let's do it, let's work on it. At this point I have already lost the hope that the vote will be unanimous. We would have liked it to have been almost unanimous, although it will clearly be a majority, because it seems that positions are irreconcilable. If at this moment with a word I could pierce the wall of misunderstanding, of cacophony, of distancing from this law, I assure you that I would pronounce it; but it gives me the impression that a word will not be enough to eliminate the transcendental differences. Let me then try to jump the wall of discrepancy with an idea that I believe can unite us beyond the meaning of our vows. If we share essential ideas, other reforms and other initiatives, they will be able to regain consensus in the future, and that seems important to me. Some will wonder: Why so much insistence on this of unity? Unity against terrorism is very important, because it has been one of the keys to success. We tried it in the Victims of Terrorism Act, and we did it despite the differences - there was only one abstention -; there was only one abstention in the Victims of Terrorism Act. I explained to you earlier that I had been a member, together with other Members of this House, of the Committee of Inquiry into the 11-M attacks. One of the participants in it, Mrs Manjón, carried out the most emotional, authentic and authoritative parliament I have ever heard in this House in the years I have been here. In her speech Mrs Manjón made many complaints to the Commissioners. We certainly did not set a good example in that Committee of Inquiry, all of them. I recovered some of the words she said last night. Mrs. Manjón said: For you everything is political and for you everything means partyism, but fortunately outside this house there is still a lot of fresh air and a lot of light under the sky. Listen to us with the cleanest heart you can. Only their partisan interests can blind this reality. [[Applauds]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, I wish in the near or remote future no one could misinterpret our differences in today's sitting and tell us: Why were you arguing, ladies and gentlemen? So big were the differences? Therefore, for this prevention in the face of the future interpretation of our differences present, I would like to put on the table essential concepts that unite us above the meaning of our votes. That is the idea that has prompted my group and my party to sign this initiative and the agreement I have spoken about. Even if today we do not coincide in the vote, even if we do not join this reform, I know that it unites us the mistake in the face of terror. I am also absolutely convinced that we all share, even if we are not going to vote together, a high and clear yes to freedom, not terrorism; that is enough for my group today. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Rafael Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, Spain, unfortunately, is well aware of the suffering and horror caused by terrorism. For decades, we have suffered the lashings of ETA and in March 2004 Madrid suffered the biggest terrorist attack of jihadist court in Europe. That is why we have been working for a long time to have the right tools to deal with this threat and thus defeat it. The work of the State Security Forces and Bodies, the performance of judges and prosecutors, international cooperation, also the unity of political parties and especially the value of the Spaniards against whom they have tried to impose the tyranny of atrocious human crime have been decisive in defeating any of these forms. That is why I would like, with my first words, to highlight our determination as a parliamentary group to keep the memory of the victims of terrorism always in force, to honour their memory with due dignity and to promote the testimony of gratitude that we will always be debtors of. [[Applauds]] Today we again express the full recognition of Spanish society to the victims, their families and their environment. Ladies and gentlemen, the experience of these years shows that unity, consensus and ultimately the sum of efforts have been key to the defeat of some of the forms of terrorism in our country, because unity certainly strengthens the rule of law and weakens those who, through their actions, seek to destroy it. More security is more freedom. More unity is less vulnerability to fundamentalism or totalitarianism. That is why on 2 February the President of the Government and the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party signed a new Anti-Terrorism Pact, the fourth signed in democratic Spain: the Madrid Pact of 1987, of Ajuria Enea of 1988, the Pact for Freedoms and Against Terrorism of 2000 and now the Pact against the threat of jihadism, a new pact that strengthens unity and consensus in defence of democracy, security and coexistence in peace and freedom, showing that, although terrorism is transformed, consensus is maintained; a new agreement between the main political forces that seeks to give a more effective response to those who seek to alter public order through threats, coercion or intimidation, in short, to offer a legal response to the various formulas that the terrorist threat can acquire, because terrorism, ladies and gentlemen, is not won with rhetoric or with demagogy. It is defeated with principles, values, conviction and the most effective tool that democrats can use in the face of totalitarian fanaticism: the law and the necessary reforms and updates thereof. Ladies and gentlemen, jihadist terrorism stands out because it has incorporated new forms of violence consisting of aggressive formulas for recruitment, training and indoctrination, new threats, new instruments by totalitarians that make it necessary to equip our rule of law with better legal and operational tools in order to promote the work of judges and prosecutors, as well as the State Security Forces and Corpses. It is therefore a matter of being more effective in the fight against terrorism, and this is precisely what we are pursuing with the initiative we are debating today: new responses to new threats. This new agreement also addresses the concerns and initiatives agreed at the international level, such as the United Nations Security Council Resolution of 24 September 2014, which urged States to make the necessary legislative changes to improve the prevention, prosecution and punishment of these crimes in the face of the concern of the international community for the intensification of terrorist activity and the call for attacks in all regions of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, European capitals such as Paris, Brussels and Copenhagen this weekend have suffered the terrorist attacks on fundamental values and human rights that are at the heart of our civilization: solidarity, freedom, pluralism, democracy, tolerance and human dignity. For this reason, the barbarism of terrorism requires close cooperation between European partners to strengthen preventive action to the challenge of unreasonability and violence. This pact values that we are one of the most consolidated democracies in the world, that Spain is a serious and responsible country that can be trusted. That is why the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, at the Council of Europe meeting last Thursday defended the agreement reached here in Spain and changed the need to achieve a great pact at European level, insisting on the importance of having common rules to combat terrorism more effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, while some of the forces represented here hold this agreement to be a pact that is closer to revenge than to pursuing terrorism, the President of the European Council has just designated among the twenty-eight countries that make up Spain and France as rapporteurs of the future pact that is sought in this area and that seek all the countries of the European Union. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, what for some, according to the text of the amendments we are debating today, is revenge, shielding of fear and even chapuza or photograph of boxers - as Mrs Díez has even described in those texts - for others it is a reference model to be followed for its firmness and effectiveness in addressing a comprehensive European strategy against this scourge. From this perspective comes the proposal for an organic law that is being debated today, an initiative that is born as a result of an exercise of dialogue, consensus and unity in the face of terrorism that requires us to eliminate party interests generously. We, ladies and gentlemen, have reached out to all the groups in the House. We have had a dialogue with all the groups in the House. We have incorporated into the text some of the proposals made by certain groups in the House that wanted to reach agreement, and this is precisely what is reflected in this bill. We have talked about dialogue and have sought consensus from the outset. I regret that there are some who, for other reasons - opportunistic, ideological or otherwise - did not see it that way and did not want to join. Ladies and gentlemen, one month is the time that has elapsed since these negotiations began to seek a state pact. A number of proposals have been worked on and, as I said, have been offered, dialogue and agreement to all to avoid precisely that this could seem to anyone or have the justification of some of them to understand that it was a contract of accession. From that moment until today, discussions have been held on the appropriateness of the measures to be implemented, the result of an exercise in dialogue, mutual respect and the renunciation of particular positions. Finally, the pact and the bill that we are debating today were signed. This proposal for an organic law amends the Criminal Code, so that the rigour of the criminal response to terrorist crimes includes, in addition to the forms of terrorism already known, those resulting from these new threats. Ladies and gentlemen, we define in the text the offences of terrorism, whether or not they are carried out within a terrorist group or organisation, in accordance with the purpose for which they are committed and with a common element, which is to create a state of terror in the population. The offence of terrorism is thus the move abroad to join or collaborate with a terrorist organization. It also covers the conduct of new forms of terrorism, especially aspects such as the recruitment and training of terrorists, including passive training, the use of communication networks and information technologies for this purpose, the financing of terrorist organizations and the various forms of active collaboration with them. One of the main reasons why we have made this proposal for an organic law is that, on the basis of the new threats we face, we must update our criminal legislation to accommodate the phenomenon of individual terrorism and the conduct that is the main concern of the international community at the moment. If this reform is not carried out, as the groups of the Plural Left and the Basque Nationalist Party have proposed in their amendments, what is achieved is that the Spanish courts apply regulations which, being valid, are not adequate to deal with these new forms of terrorism. I do not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is time to explain to you here the difference between the just and the legal, or yes, in the light of the statements that some have made this morning. Of course it is legal to apply the rates currently provided for, but it would not be fair to respond to the caliber of the damages caused by such actions or proportional to the damages caused to the protected legal assets that some seek to threaten. Is it your wish, those who say that it is all done, that nothing changes, or, on the contrary, want to work and join this pact that offers the necessary fit to neutralize these new forms of terrorism? In this regard, I address the Convergence and Union Group, which last week highlighted some internal differences in the vote on the consideration of this bill. I encourage you to be able to resolve your differences, to abandon your differences and to achieve unity in order to act responsibly on such an important issue as the fight against terrorism, as you have always done, gentlemen of Convergence and Union, and as you have recently acknowledged by the Home Secretary, Don Ramón Espadaler, who points out that Catalonia is at a high level of alert for the real risk of a jihadist attack and has alerted the Mosso d ́Esquadra to the need to take all possible self-protection measures, both in the workplace and in private life. We offer your group to continue to dialogue - we are going to accept some amendments today - and I propose that we continue to speak to try to improve the text in the Senate and incorporate them into you as full members of this agreement, which I believe is essential to you and to all the Spaniards. The proposed law that we are debating today incorporates into the Criminal Code new realities that are not accommodated in any article of the current and existing Code, while defining in a more precise and appropriate way other figures. We know that this pact does not immunize us in the face of terror, but it makes us stronger to respond to their tyranny. However, some continue to oppose the pact. I understand that those who do not condemn terrorism do not support this reform, but I do not understand that those who, being against it, oppose this initiative, even more so after incorporating with our amendments a clarification on the difference between public disorder resulting from social protests and terrorist actions, or the one intended to protect women from exploitation, trafficking or trafficking. I do not want to fail to mention the groups that have chosen to abstain. You, gentlemen of UPyD, abstain and argue that certain legal figures, as Mrs Díez says, produce a corruption in language by trying to equate this pact with those signed in 1988 and 2000. Your Honor, nothing further from reality. No difference. Perhaps the only difference is where you were then and where you are sitting now. [[Applauds]] Therefore, Mrs Díez, be sensible, abandon your pride and your highness and, in an exercise of humility and responsibility, support this pact, because you know that it is the right thing, which suits Spain and the Spanish. Mrs. Díez, I do not accept that you attempt to paint this pact as a tool for terrorists' lawyers. If I had to interpret the text of some of the amendments that you have made in the same curse with which you interpret this pact and this proposed organic law, it would be appropriate or would be appropriate to say that it is in that text that there are, or may be, commutations of sentences to those convicted of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, in his speech, the spokesman for Amaiur said that he does not agree with this proposal for a law, that he does not consider this initiative. The truth is, I have to tell you that I would worry that there would be a coincidence between you and us, between you and the Democrats. [[Rumors]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that you have a concept of freedom, of what human rights and democracy are, which has nothing to do with what my group understands. It has nothing to do with it. That is why, when you point out that there is a democratic deficit, I have to say that it is clear that there is a democratic deficit. There is a democratic deficit because there is a force, which you represent, that refuses to condemn terrorism, that refuses to demand from ETA its unconditional dissolution and to hand over the weapons. This is indeed a democratic deficit at this stage, Mr de Amaiur, because many of the people who have been and who are in their political formation, unfortunately, have been throwing out and justifying terrorism for years. [[Applauds]] That is why we are waiting, Mr Errekondo, for one of you to ever apologize to Spanish society. This is the only democratic deficit that exists. As far as Mr Olabarria and the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Olabarria, are concerned, you are a specialist in jusaturism. I think you have acted with a huge complex in this rostrum and, I have to tell you, the legal arguments have seemed very weak to me today for a person of your legal qualification. It gives me the feeling that there have been some more complexes that have led you and your group to maintain this position and stop joining this reform. Ladies and gentlemen, another of the issues raised during this debate has been that of the permanent reviewable prison, an excuse more than some have put in order not to support this text and this pact. The draft reform of the Criminal Code currently being debated in the Senate reserves this penalty to exceptionally serious and fortunately infrequent cases, to the most heinous and repugnant crimes. I think we need to consider two facets of this new criminal type, the first, its constitutionality and the second, its democratic character. With regard to its constitutionality, it is endorsed by the Council of State, the Fiscal Council and the General Council of the Judiciary. As far as its constitutionality is concerned, I think it is clear that it is constitutional and that this cannot be called into question at the moment. Its democratic character is clearly validated by the laws of countries in our environment. Or do you intend to say that Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Austria, Sweden or Denmark are not democratic countries, that they are countries with figures equivalent to the permanent prison reviewable and that they do so for a greater number of crimes than we have planned? This is therefore an appropriate measure for our rule of law, since our Constitution, in its article 25, provides for reintegration, and for this is the permanent prison that can be reviewed, in order to establish that there is recognition of evil and repentance on the part of the criminal. But, as I say to you, this is not the subject of the debate and therefore the discrepancy does not exist about it and should not prevent consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, from this parliamentary group we believe that the shortest way to end terrorism is the rule of law. We cannot allow any form of terrorism to endanger a peaceful and free coexistence governed by a normative Constitution like ours. Criminal justice is an essential part of a policy aimed at ensuring citizen security and at combating crime and terrorism. Adapting its regulation to these new threats is therefore an essential element in strengthening our rule of law. This is the responsibility we Democrats have. In democracy, everything against terrorism is not worth it, but everything that in democracy is to be used to put an end to it. The representation of popular sovereignty in this Parliament obliges us all here to be united in the defence of freedoms and in the fight against terrorism and in how many legitimate mechanisms can be incorporated into this struggle. That is why I call for the support of all parliamentary groups, so that from unity we can face the worst enemy of democracy and freedoms, such as the exercise of terror, whatever its form of expression. They will allow me to conclude by giving special recognition to all those who have been working intensively on the drafting of this agreement, from the Ministers of the Interior and Justice, through the Secretary of State, through the Undersecretary of Justice, and also to those who from different groups have contributed to this proposal for a law and to this anti-terrorist pact: Mrs Aguilar, Mr Serrano, Mr Trevín and, of course, Mr Castillo and Mr Escobar, of my group. Many thanks to all of them and many thanks to all of you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. In two minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u46	Let's start the voting. Firstly, a motion by the Socialist Group on the new regulation of the management of official university education. An amendment tabled by Mr Álvarez Sostres has been incorporated. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 127 against, 172 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u47	It's rejected. - THE CULTURAL POLICY OF THE STATE CONCERNS IMMEDIATELY REDUCING VAT ON CULTURAL AND SPORTING PRODUCTS AND ACTIVITIES. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 173/000196]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u48	Motion by the Catalan Parliamentary Group on the need for the State's cultural policy to include the immediate reduction of VAT on cultural and sporting products and activities. [[Convergence and Union]] It is going to vote on its own terms, but it is two points and we are going to vote on them separately. Therefore, the vote on item 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour 148 against 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u49	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 141 against, 173 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u50	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u51	We shall now vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. I would point out to the speakers that we will vote first on the Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, done in Brussels on 21 March and 27 June 2014. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 296 against, 1 abstention, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u52	The convention was adopted. - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE EXCHANGE AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 21 OCTOBER 2014. [[File number 110/00141]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRALIA ON THE JOURNAL MOBILITY PROGRAMME, DONE IN CANBERRA ON 3 SEPTEMBER 2014. [[File number 110/00143]] - PROTOCOL 2002 TO THE CONVENTION OF ATHENS ON THE TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS AND THEIR EQUIPMENT BY SEA, 1974, DONE IN LONDON ON 1 NOVEMBER 2002, WITH A RESERVE AND A DECLARATION THAT SPANISH WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/00144]] - COMPLAINT OF THE CONVENTION ON THE TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS AND THEIR EQUIPMENT BY SEA, DATED 13 DECEMBER 1974. [[File number 110/000145]] - COMPLAINT OF THE PROTOCOL UNDER THE 1974 ATHENS CONVENTION ON THE TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS AND THEIR EQUIPMENT BY SEA, DONE IN LONDON ON 19 NOVEMBER 1976. [[File number 110/000146]] - WITHDRAWAL OF SPAIN'S ACCESS TO THE 1990 PROTOCOL AMENDING THE CONVENTION OF ATHENS ON THE TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS AND THEIR EQUIPMENT BY SEA, 1974, DONE IN LONDON ON 29 MARCH 1990. [[File number 110/000147]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u53	We are now going to vote jointly on the six conventions that have been discussed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes cast; 310 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u54	They were adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u55	Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on terrorist offences. We are going to vote on the amendments from all the groups. I will confine myself to saying that it has been approved or rejected, but if any group considers that it is appropriate to have any results, it would do so, although I insist that the results are included in the 'Session Paper', of course. Amendment by Mr Álvarez Sostres, of the Joint Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 7 against, 280 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u56	It's rejected. Amendments by Mrs Fernández Davila, of the Joint Group. Firstly, Amendment 31. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 24 against, 268 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u57	It's rejected. Amendment 32. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 39 against, 270 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u58	It's rejected. Amendment 36. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 27 against, 272 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u59	It's rejected. Mrs Fernández Davila's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 33 against, 271 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u60	They're rejected. Within the Joint Group, Mr Tardá's amendments. Firstly, Amendment 57. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 40 against, 274 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u61	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Tardà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 41 against, 274 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u62	They're rejected. Amendments by the Basque Group, PNV. Firstly, Amendments Nos 19, 20, 22, 24 and 28, which are voted on together. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 41 against, 270 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u63	They're rejected. Remaining amendments to the PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 27 against, 270 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u64	They're rejected. Amendments to the Progressive Union and Democracy. Firstly, Amendment 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 23 against, 285 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u65	It's rejected. Amendment 38. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 11 against, 284 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u66	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 5 against, 280 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u67	They're rejected. Amendments to the Plural Left. Firstly, Amendments Nos 5, 6, 8 and 10, which are voted on together. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 40 against, 273 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u68	They're rejected. Amendments 11, 12 and 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 40 against, 269 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u69	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour, 25 against, 268 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u70	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. Firstly, Amendment 43. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 17 against, 183 abstentions 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u71	It's rejected. Amendments 44, 48 and 49 together. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 14 against, 272 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u72	They're rejected. Amendment 45. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 289 against, 14 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u73	It's approved. Amendment 46. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 41 against, 267 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u74	It's rejected. Amendments 47, 51, 52, 53 and 54 together. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 32 against, 278 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u75	They're rejected. Amendment 50. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 14 against, 278 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u76	It's rejected. Amendments by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Socialist, and Mr Salvador and Mrs Oramas. Firstly, Amendments Nos 60 and 62. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 287 against, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u77	They're approved. Amendments 61 and 63, together. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 276 against, 33 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u78	They're approved. Amendment 64. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 288 against, 10 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u79	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u80	Text of the proposed organic law. Overall vote on the proposal for this organic law. Four telematic votes have been cast. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 323 votes in favour, 273 votes in favour, 277 votes against, 27 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-19-CD150219.u81	Accordingly, the proposed Organic Law amending the Criminal Code Organization Act 10/1995 of 23 November 1995 on terrorist offences, which will be referred to the Senate, is approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was twelve and ten minutes from noon.
