ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u1	The meeting was resumed. We continue with the debate on the opinion of the General State Budgets Bill for 2016. We will discuss section 18, Education, Culture and Sport. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to appear before your ladies and gentlemen to present to you the general outlines of Section 18 of the General Budgets of the State, on which the work agenda of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport, which I have the honour to address, is based. The ministry's budgets in 2016 are the result of a change in our country's economic scenario. The structural reforms carried out by the Government under the principles of efficiency and accountability coupled with the efforts of all citizens have placed us on the path of economic growth for several quarters. These 2016 budgets are not only an exercise of efficiency, effectiveness, prioritization of spending and political rationality, but also the budgets of recovery, which now allow us to push and reinforce a whole series of budget lines on a basis that has remained unchanged throughout the parliamentary term. Firstly, education policy is a fundamental pillar of the social action of the Government and of our commitment to equal opportunities. The main objective of our education system is to develop the potential of each student and his/her acquisition of skills. It is our duty to work for an educational system capable of meeting citizens' expectations and in which the complementarity between training and the labour market becomes a reality. A system in which we must pay attention to merit, effort and capacity within a framework of certainty, quality and freedom without exclusion of any kind. These budgets are a firm commitment, on the one hand, for equity and equal opportunities to become a real mechanism for mobility and social promotion and, on the other hand, for our education system to contribute to improving our country's social welfare and growth. Secondly, the 2016 budgets reaffirm the Government's commitment to culture, its industry, its creative potential and its relevance as a common heritage and wealth for our country and for our society. These budgets support major cultural institutions, contribute to the development of cultural and creative industries and establish a stable and predictable incentive system for culture. Culture is a key sector to strengthen our competitiveness and adapt to globalisation. We have been very aware in the design of these accounts that creativity is one of the greatest riches in our country. Contributing to relaunching the economy, Section 18, Education, Culture and Sport to strengthen our image as a country and to improve society as a whole. I would also like to stress today that this creativity has a price, that talent must be rewarded and, therefore, there must be no tolerance for piracy. We must assume the fight against piracy as a social commitment, which I also assume as an educational issue, a question of raising awareness among our young people from school. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we share the idea that culture is a civic necessity, that it is an investment and not an expenditure. With these budgets we have wanted to ensure the sustainability of our country's cultural policy, to ensure its transparency and to move it away from contingency and provisionality. Thirdly, the Ministry's budgets for the year 2016 in the area of sport reinforce the promotion of sports practice at all levels, the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping, control and transparency in the governance of federations and - I would like to stress this because it seems to me very important - support for the equality and integration of women in all areas of sport, especially in the structures of government and management bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to the first general figures. According to the draft State General Budgets for 2016, the budget allocated to the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport is 9.64 % higher than in 2015. From 2,862 million euros to 3,138 million in 2016. Of these 3,138 million, 2,139 will go to the education area, 10.80% more than in 2015; 436 million euros will go to the culture area, 12.32% more than in the current year and 161 million euros will go to the sport area, 12.04 % more than in 2015. The share of common services rises by only 0.52 %, after having fallen by 60 % during the parliamentary term thanks to significant savings in common expenses and the ministry's current services. Again this year we want to be deliberately austere in our current spending to allocate our resources to the substantive policies of the ministry. As I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, the expenditure on education in the ministry's budget for the coming year is 2,139 million euros, 209 million euros more than in 2015. Education will devote the main part of this budget to general scholarships and study grants. In 2016 this item will have the largest budget in history: 1.416,5 million euros. Fellowships represent the Government's commitment to people and to equal opportunities, as lack of economic resources cannot be an obstacle to talent development and knowledge creation. No one in Spain will stop studying for lack of economic resources. For this reason more than 66% of the budget of the Ministry of Education is devoted to social cohesion items, mainly scholarships and grants for the purchase of books and teaching materials, as I will detail below. With the new scholarship model approved during the 2013-2014 academic year, the ministry spends on grants with responsibility, that is, it spends what it has; contrary to what happened in the previous legislature in which a quantity was budgeted and then spent above that item, which caused a debt that was about to collapse the general scholarship system, endangering the call for the 2013-2014 academic year. [[Rumors]] Now the viability of our scholarship system is guaranteed for the present and for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of an education system rests on its teachers. For this reason, the operative part of the draft General Budgets of the State for the financial year 2016 contains a regulatory proposal with great impact in this area. I am referring to the increase in the replacement rate of staff in the teaching public service to 100 per cent, which is equivalent to the total coverage of new income needs due to retirements and other permanent falls. This proposal puts an end to the constraints that began in 2012 due to the economic circumstances of the moment. This proposal is a fundamental step in our determination and determination to seek the reversal of measures that should have been taken in a crisis scenario that has already been overcome. This measure is particularly important for two reasons. Firstly, because it will lead to a significant improvement in the quality and stability of teaching employment and, secondly, because it implies a 20% drop in the maximum ratios. Article 2 of Royal Decree-Law 14/2012 of 20 April provided that when the State General Budgets Act establishes a replacement rate of less than 50%, educational administrations could extend the maximum number of pupils established for the education regulated by the Organic Law 2/2006 by up to 20%. Since the State General Budgets proposal for 2016 includes a 100 per cent replacement rate, Article 2 of the Royal Decree-Law is not applicable, so the maximum permitted ratio of pupils per classroom is again the one indicated in the basic legislation. Thus, in primary education there is a maximum of 30 to 25 pupils, in compulsory secondary education there is a maximum of 36 to 30 and in baccalaureate, from 42 to 35. In the case of the university, the need to replace permanent falls and retirements is compounded by the fact that the limited replacement rate has been calculating these years also for promotion between universities or within the same university. I am very pleased to tell you that in the royal decree-law adopted in the past Council of Ministers both were suppressed, with which we will have more promotion between universities or within the same university greater mobility. Again, I insist that a short-term measure is thus reversed which the economic recovery scenario allows to redefine. Based on the conviction that no student is left without education due to economic problems, education budgets recover the aid programme for the purchase of missing textbooks and teaching materials in 2012, with the aim of helping families with lower economic resources in the purchase of textbooks and school materials. The ministry will invest 24 million euros in 2016, but this year it will enable an extra 24 million euros to be spent so that families can enjoy these scholarships since the beginning of the 2015-2016 course. At the sectoral conference held on 13 August, we agreed with the autonomous communities that it was the people with the lowest economic resources who could enjoy this new resource. This is an important and decisive first step that shows the government's willingness to recover this aid, which will amount to EUR 51 million in two years, including the EUR 3 million that the ministry will devote to Ceuta and Melilla. On the other hand, the adaptation to the global society in which we live, the international projection of our country and the mobility of our young and future professionals require an ever greater dominance of the main foreign languages. As a result, another of the bets of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport is that of foreign language learning, which in the 2016 budget will have an item of 173.5 million euros. The Erasmus programme will have EUR 163.5 million, EUR 126.5 million for the Erasmus+ programme - EUR 2.5 million more than in 2015 -, EUR 37 million for the Erasmus.es reinforcement programme, and another EUR 10 million for immersion courses abroad and in Spain. Another important item is that dedicated to financing the implementation of the Lomce in all the autonomous communities, to which will be dedicated 368 million euros. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this funding is also being made through the European Social Fund. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, these are budgets of deep social content, aimed at improving the quality of our education system and reducing the early school drop-out rate in line with the objectives of the 2020 strategy adopted by the European Union. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, within the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport, the cultural budget will reach 436 million euros in 2016, compared to 388 million euros in 2015. We are therefore talking about an increase of 12.32%, which is the largest percentage increase since 2005. Among the actions in this budget year I would like to highlight, first of all, the aid for cinema, which will grow by 65.3% compared to 2015. The priority for the next financial year is the change in the model of aid to the sector. The new system of film aid consists of pre-production aid for feature films on the project, which will coexist with traditional selective project aid. The new aid will allow the progressive financing of film productions during their development, as the sector has been demanding, in the face of amortisation aid, which was called two years after the film's premiere and which has proved to be an unsustainable model in times of budgetary scarcity. This change will reduce the financial costs of films by more than 15 % and will direct the aid to production. The new film financing model will have the necessary funding during the transitional period to deal with the payment of amortisation aid for films released in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Consequently, the budget of the Institute of Cinematography and Audiovisual Arts grows in 2016 by 44.77 %, up to 76.9 million euros. Of this amount, the ICAA will allocate EUR 60,5 million to the aid collected from the Film Protection Fund, which, as I said, is growing by 65,3 %. There will also be an increase in the museum programme by 5.26% to EUR 150.2 million. Within this item the amount to cover the expenses of museums dependent on the Directorate-General for Fine Arts grows by 7.3%, to almost EUR 52 million in 2016. Thus, the budget of the Prado National Museum grows by 7.18% compared to 2015, reaching 45 million euros. The capital of the Reina Sofia Museum also grows by 2.58%, i.e. 36 million euros; the National Library increases its budget by more than 2%, to reach almost 30 million euros; and transfers to the Thyssen Museum are also increased by 12.8%, to the National Museum of Art of Catalonia by 5.08 % and to the Museum of Contemporary Art of Barcelona by 5.08 %. In the field of fine arts, aid for the promotion of contemporary Spanish art amounting to EUR 150,000 was recovered in 2016, which had been abolished as a result of budgetary adjustments in previous years. The game dedicated to performing arts also grows by 15.4%. The budget of the National Institute of Performing Arts and Music, the Inaem, will amount to almost 150 million euros in 2016. The Inaem increases by 3.5% the aid granted to the Teatro Real, the Gran Teatre del Liceu, the Teatro de la Maestranza, Mercat de les Flors and Palau de les Arts of the Valencian Community. In 2016, the ministry has maintained its support for the Platea program, with €5 million, with which it promotes the recruitment of performing arts companies by local entities throughout Spain, which is having a great success. It has also strengthened its contribution to the Ibero-Scene programme by 15% with the aim of contributing to the formation of a common Ibero-American space for performing arts. In short, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a considerable budgetary effort is being made in the field of culture. Ladies and gentlemen, the preliminary draft of these General State Budgets for 2016 increases investment for Spanish sport by 12.04 %; in this way, the budget of the Higher Sports Council for the coming year will amount to more than EUR 161 million compared to the EUR 144 million budgeted for 2015. The budget of the Higher Sports Council, excluding the Game Law, amounts to a total of 97.9 million euros, 13.36% higher than the year 2015, which is divided into two headings: 89.3 million euros will correspond to the Higher Sports Council and 8.6 million euros to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Health and Sport, which represents an increase of more than 38%. I would like to highlight this latest budget increase, because it is a decisive commitment to protecting the health of our athletes and to combating doping in our country. On the other hand, the revenue-based item of the gambling activity tax amounts to EUR 75 million, an increase of 7.14% compared to the forecast for 2015. In this way, the final amount allocated to the Higher Sports Council, including the corresponding portion of the quinielas, is a total of EUR 164.3 million, which is 9.43 % more than in 2015. This budget of the Higher Sports Council has been increased to increase certain budget items of particular interest in the year of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. Thus, the subsidy to the Spanish sports federations will grow by 23.35 %, the aid to athletes for the results obtained increases by 2.50 %, the subsidy to the Spanish Olympic Committee rises by 316,67 % and the subsidy to the Spanish Paralympic Committee by 400 %. Finally, there is a new budget for university sports, amounting to EUR 200,000, with the aim of maintaining the promotion of sport as an essential part of university life. Similarly, the provision for audits with an amount of EUR 300,000 is strengthened in order to improve the financial controls of the sports federations. And finally, the credits for insularity grow 600,000 euros for clubs, autonomous federations and sportsmen living in the Canary Islands, Balearic Islands, Ceuta and Melilla, with the aim of enabling them to participate on equal terms in non-professional national competitions held in the Peninsula. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets I am presenting today want to respond to the demands of students, parents and teachers, to reverse the adjustments made in accordance with the consolidation of public accounts and the commitment of the Government and to strengthen the social action of the Government through educational policy. In the field of culture, our objective with these budgets is to guarantee citizens' access to culture together with the encouragement and protection of cultural industries and the promotion of all artistic manifestations. Finally, these budgets persist in the growing support for all forms of sports activities and in the effort, to which I referred earlier, in the fight against doping. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a broad common field of work on which to build agreements. These budgets look from a present flattering and prepare for everyone a hopeful future. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's go to the defence of amendments. For the Joint Group, Mr Álvarez Sostres has the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum in order, in accordance with the model of interventions in defence of the amendments of the Joint Group to the draft Law on General State Budgets, to defend all the amendments of my group. In advance, Minister, I apologize for the aesthetically inconceivable model of intervention, because I am going to talk not only about education or culture, but also about other sections corresponding to the ministry. As Rafael 'El Gallo' would say: It is what there is and, therefore, there is no solution. As I have already announced, these budgets have a large dose of electoralism, capturing wills; a large dose of manipulation with multiannualities and, in particular, a territorial imbalance that transforms Asturias into a colonized community and out of the map in government interventions. I want to take advantage that this is one of the last debates in the legislature to denounce two things. Firstly, the absence of a reaction from the Government of Asturias as if it were not with them. It's just amazing. Secondly, that our trade union and business forces stand idly by what is already a ritual of chronic maltreatment. If only a few slight whispers of discomfort that we can see or read in a few media opinions, accomodations and light in their behaviors, informative to society. It is for social anthropology to find out what these behaviors of our own Asturian society are due to. Anyone would say that some large traditional company is doing well with the policy of industrial decay or railway isolation or the policy of migration of young people. Nothing can obey - or at least I do not believe in it - to chance, and yes to the convergence of spurious interests that will sooner or later be known. Minister, I did not want to pass this opportunity so that these reflections could be recorded in the 'Diary of Sessions'. The debate on budgets in the Commission is once again tremendously didactic about a destructive way of doing a policy of disagreement. Of the 4,228 amendments tabled by twelve opposition parties, the Government did not accept one; a model of political crushing by seats that only saves the tragedy of refugees and the funds agreed upon in a transitional arrangement. Let us focus on how these budgets affect Asturias. Again Asturias loses in investments. The general budgets have allocated us EUR 307 million, a reduction of 7.6%, which means in the last five years a decrease of around 40%. If these budgets are those of recovery, can anyone from the PP, national or Asturias, tell me in which car is Asturias going with respect to the rest of the Spaniards? Minister, Forum has tabled 67 amendments which concern eight ministries, in which we are claiming EUR 1,217 million; 46.8% more than last year's amendments, and are being implemented from Amendment 1858 to 1921. Of course, none has been accepted in the Commission - not even yesterday in the plenary - and I assume that they will not accept them either in the course of this plenary session. There would be a fainting death if I were accepted, but I do tell you not to play with things to eat. [[Laughter]] With regard to your department, Minister, the twelve amendments I have tabled to the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport correspond to the impact of the crisis on our young students and the impetus that must accompany the implementation of a law that entails serious problems. That is why, in my view, the allocations for scholarships, selection and training of teachers, children's education and the boost of VET should be increased. In my view, they are the four develops on which a school building is held; a building to which everyone shoots in the daily political refrigeration. Seven educational laws in thirty-five years give credence to what I say, but also that the building is mostly socialist building. That is the responsibility of the PSOE; that of the PP is that they had the opportunity to improve the negative in 2002 and now also if there had been a political waist for consensus in search of a basic code that would suppose the basis of a pact with the school community, with the teacher as the axis of the system and with autonomy. In the field of culture, we continue to support the Oviedo Opera Festival for its discrimination against other similar music centres, which have seen their funds increased by almost 50% in recent years. Also the preservation of the Asturian pre-Romanic monuments has been of interest to us, as well as the high mountain life in Somiedo, with its bras and tits, and the funding of the Academy of Language, similar to other academies of similar cut. Most of the amendments and the bulk of the items correspond to the Ministries of Development, Industry and Finance for the territorial financing system. In the first case, we have tabled amendments which seek to speed up the completion of the missing sections on our motorways. Other amendments concern the acceleration of the works of the variant of Pajares, with the change of location of the exchanger from León to Pola de Lena. The minister, Mrs Pastor, knows that the works of the variant with the exchanger in Leon will never represent the international width for Asturias. The international width will end in León and from there the stretch will be conventional. Why? What is behind the fact that the UIC width does not reach Pula de Lena after 3.5 billion euros of investment? This is a political decision, not an economic one; the costs are the same, the way, the chain, etc. It leads us to formulate quid prodest what is happening, who is interested in this and why. Why it's what we're interested in. They also refer to the accesses to the ports of Gijón and Avilés; to the PEPA business park of Avilés; the northern round of Oviedo; the integration plans - very important - of the railways of Avilés and Gijón, with the centrality of the station and other activities of railway and acoustic programming in the municipalities of Oviedo, Olloniego and Corvera; the budget allocation for the bridge Nicolás Soria de Oviedo; the rehabilitation of the monastery of Cornellana and various works of FEVE, as well as the defense of the coastal areas of the river Nalón and the municipalities of Las Regueras and Grao are other of our proposals. The seven amendments relating to industry refer to aid for coal. The outstanding figure that is claimed for the enforcement by the State of the judicial sentence that obliges it to pay the 213 million euros that it owes us. Do not become insumious and pay what the courts say; pay what you owe. In addition, we want you to develop another set of commitments in small tourist municipalities such as Luarca, Villavicosa or the equipment of the Stephen Hawking Center in Langreo. The amendments to territorial financing stem from the injustice of the financing model so many times promised by the PP and so many non-compliance, creating a double model of financing and historical debts of more than EUR 800 million, so we include a heading of 300 million as annuality. Mr Minister, the distribution model is acceptable, but it will agree with me that the basis of everything must be equity and solidarity. Finally, we announce that we will support with our votes, as we did yesterday, the amendments of the PSOE and the United Left on Asturian issues. We are grateful for the vote in favour of our amendments and welcome the fact that the opinion included a small part for the Camino de Santiago and a small part for the pedrea, for the centrality of the Gijón station, even more considering that none of the one hundred and eighty-nine amendments in the five-year parliamentary term - none - have been accepted by the People's Party, and we no longer add. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll step in from the seat. Minister, I could talk to you at this time about a multitude of activities of the ministry in relation to projects in Basque, such as the Musical Quincena, the film festival or the ABAO, whose discrimination in relation, for example, to the Royal Theatre, the High School or the Master's Degree is more than obvious. In this regard, we call for firm support from his Government. He knows that the ABAO, which has been in quality opera seasons for more than sixty years and has been an important sign of identity not only from Bilbao but also from Euskadi, is at risk not of disappearing but at least of substantially lowering its cultural offer. This lack of support from the Government, this very important reduction in this endowment over these years, shows this. I would ask you, Minister, to make an effort. Through the amendment tabled by the Basque Group, Amendment 243, I would like to draw your attention to something that you have not even mentioned this morning, a unique fact which, in our view, requires specific support, considerable support. I am referring to Donostia/San Sebastián the capital of European culture in 2016. The arguments of our group in relation to this demand I believe are sufficiently strong. The budget contributed by the central government to this project is significantly lower than that provided by other central governments corresponding to other cultural capitals of Europe, such as in Wroclaw or Breslavia, which will be the capital of European culture in 2016, the budget allocated by the Polish government is the equivalent of more than €23 million. The contribution of the central government is not at all in line with the contributions of the other institutions of the San Sebastián Foundation 2016. The consolidated budget amounts to EUR 47.8 million, of which the City of San Sebastián contributes 26,2 %, as does the Provincial Council of Guipúzcoa something else because the Basque Government contributes 25,1. The central government with these 1.5 million euros that it has allocated in the budgets barely reaches 3%. We call for an increase of EUR 3 million on the initially planned contribution by your Government, which is EUR 1.5 million. It is also aware that Brussels has repeatedly required the central government to increase its contribution and make it directly, rather than using the nominative grant allocated to certain projects. Various reports, both public and private, that the Follow-up and Advisory Committee of the European Capitals of Culture has transferred to the San Sebastián Foundation 2016, urge the Spanish Government to increase its contribution to the European cultural capital of San Sebastián and modify the formula to finance the project. Therefore, the increase, if it occurs, Minister, would also be welcomed and supported by these European institutions. Finally, the central government can also provide other funding for the San Sebastián Foundation 2016. It should be recalled that when Salamanca was the European capital of culture in 2002, - according to the 16th additional provision of the Budget Act for the year 2002 - the possibility was enabled that the public corporate entity of State Lotteries and Bets would allocate during that year the benefits of a special lottery draw in favour of Salamanca 2002. One could think of an initiative of this nature that complements the resources that the Government initially plans to provide on this issue. In addition, other ministries or entities could also allocate additional resources to ensure the success of the project, which I believe is something we all want, not just the Basques. We believe, Minister, that the event of Donosti cultural capital of 2016 deserves a real effort. Accept our amendment. We believe that it is not excessive, but rather that there is little we demand, but in any case, to accept it, it would reflect his Government's willingness to support the event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the explanation or account you have given us of this section of the General Budgets of the State, as I also had the opportunity to say yesterday in other sections, cannot be more continuous with the policy that has existed so far in education. It is true that certain items are recovered, which increase those destined for the replacement of teaching places, which increase that of scholarships, etc., but with conditions and a policy of substance that we do not share at all. I have to say - I have done this throughout this legislature many times - that the educational policy of this government has been one of the biggest disappointments of this legislature for our group and one of the biggest fiascos, because the Lomce - that law that you have also talked about, as it cannot be otherwise, because it should come into force next year, although this is highly unlikely - it is a law that has finally been deepening in most of the problems that the model inherited from the Logse had without changing those fundamental issues that have to do with having an education of the 21st century, an education really concerned with equal opportunities, the development of knowledge and the overcoming of certain pedagogical concepts that have been revealed for too many years as a ballast and a problem for the take-off of education in Spain. The problem is that these budgets, such as Lomce herself, which, as I said, is a law that is going to come into force, we will see how and when, if it actually comes into force - not only because it has very little consensus and depends on the absolute majority of the People's Party, but also because it is a very badly-formed law, filled with all kinds of technical problems, as you yourself know, by the meetings that you have had with the educational community in order to be able to enter into force, regardless of the color of the autonomous governments that take charge of their development - as well as in general the educational conception, do not solve the problems of the lack of a system of education in Spain, that is, of the non-system, which is divided into seven Taifas, into seven educational subsystems, whose differences certainly do not stop growing, and I will immediately make some rather eloquent references to it. Thanks to Lomce, the curricular differences between the different autonomous communities in what is considered basic knowledge - I mean subjects such as mathematics, language, etc. - will increase to 33% in ordinary communities and 50% in communities with two official languages. What are we talking about? We are talking about that students of the same age will have a preparation when they reach a certain level of educational development of up to 33%, which is barbaric. This is not even the case when countries that are members of the OECD are compared, as is also the case in other Spanish educational indicators. The budgets they do are to deepen all this, that is, to divide the little that the State devotes to education into different concepts, leaving in the hands of the autonomous communities their development, autonomous communities that in many cases cannot cope with the costs of the educational system itself. In short, these budgets and in general their educational policy do what they do is to reinforce, deepen and bring even more to the extreme the worst features of the Spanish educational system. For example, you have not made any reference - or at least I do not remember having heard it, that is, if you have done so, to vocational training, when one of the things we say to you that Lomce at least maintained or in what has made a breakthrough is to recognize that vocational training is one of the great failures and defects of the Spanish educational system, which has been oriented towards social promotion rather than towards equal opportunities and attention to the different needs of the educational system and of schoolchildren. It seems that vocational training is of no greater importance. Many other things that you have said also remain in the tinker. Snacks and help? Yes, they do, but because the conditions for obtaining them are not changing, what is happening these years is going to happen, that many of these scholarships and grants are not being implemented, without anyone enjoying them, because what they have done has been to raise the level of the requirements, not as meritocratic requirements, as they have said, no, no, they are barriers of access, not meritocratic requirements. The few references he has made to the university, which is one of the problems that should be dealt with in depth, has also been absolutely disappointing. In fact, in the face of the chaos that this government has brought into the university system, which is going to be of truly biblical proportions because there are universities that have a system of four plus one, another of three plus two, etc., there has been a very eloquent silence that has to do with this breakdown of the university system, which ceases to be a system, as I said, and that is that there has been no reference to the financing of master's degrees. If the master's degrees are not financed by public funds in Spain, the equality of opportunities in higher education simply disappears, because there are going to be many young people from families with few economic means who, as a result of the increase in social inequality, will not have the resources to be able to cope with the costs of master's degrees, which means that they will obtain university degrees of degree that in the labour market will not serve for anything in most cases, especially in those professions that have enabling masters, which you know what they are, means that if you do not have the master's degree you cannot exercise: medicine, certain engineering, advocacy, etc. One of the consequences of the economic crisis, which is already being addressed by major NGOs, is the emergence of a new phenomenon that has come to be called educational poverty, which is nothing more than the consequence of the practice of the disappearance of equal opportunities, because, even if we have universal compulsory education, what good is it for children to go to a classroom if it turns out that they have not been able to have breakfast properly and are not well fed in order to cope with the expenditure of education? You know that the brain - for those who use it and for those who do not use it too, is a curious paradox - is the one that spends most of the energy produced in metabolism. That is, a malnourished child cannot be a good student, it is simply impossible, and there are 33% of children living in Spain, even if you deny it, in a situation of poverty and in danger of social exclusion, and in that you agree from Caritas and Unicef to Save the Children and all kinds of organizations dedicated to these issues. As I said earlier, why do we want classrooms to put children inside if they are malnourished, if their parents can't buy them both textbooks and school materials, etc.? On this I must also say that in this Congress it has been approved twice - one in a non-legislative proposal that we had the honor to present from my group and another in Lomce itself, but without any budgetary consequences - to create a system of lending school books, which is much better than subsidizing the purchase. Subsidizing the purchase only serves to subsidize the powerful editorials of textbooks, which have a captive market and which in turn are in a privileged relationship or in the main communication groups in Spain, which in turn have a privileged relationship with you. In serious and civilized countries, the system that really works well is that of school book loans. This has been approved here and does not appear anywhere in the budgets. Unfortunately there is very little time to be able to talk about an issue as important as ignored in this country - that's how it goes - but I don't want to end without mentioning the truly incredible differences in school indicators between the autonomous communities, which are going to get worse. For example, if we talk about the rate of ninis, that is, young people between eighteen and twenty-four years old who have not finished high school and are neither trained nor worked, it goes from 10% in the Basque Country, which is the minimum, to 30% in the Balearic Islands, to 25% in Catalonia, 20% in Madrid or 12% in Cantabria and others. What does Lomce do, what do these budgets do, what does the government's policy for one of the basic functions of the state, which is to try to compensate for territorial imbalances? Absolutely nothing, just deepening them and increasing them. The differences between autonomous communities mean that in Spain social inequality is linked to territorial inequality. Depending on where one is born and has the luck - because he has no merit normally this situation - or the misfortune of residing, his education will be one or another, of one quality or another. This is just amazing. Obviously, we cannot support these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Plural Left Group, I have the floor to defend your amendments, Mrs García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u9	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither tradition nor culture, it is torture. The Toro de la Vega, like other events where animals are tortured and abused, must disappear and must disappear. It is somewhat regrettable, somewhat painful, to see how electoral propaganda is being made from this atrium, because we are not talking about any budgets, we are talking about tremendously electoral budgets. Do you now remember, Minister, the needs of thousands of families and thousands of children in textbooks? Do you now make a change to the 2015 budget amount because you have realized that children need textbooks and be subsidized? Electoral propaganda, Minister. Are you now going to realize, as the previous speaker has said, that thousands of children need to eat in order to develop intellectually? You're gonna figure it out now? Or that they need school transportation? Throughout the whole legislature they have rejected once after another initiative in that direction and now come to this attrition and want to convince us of the need for agreements. What agreements, Minister? Deals for 2016 budgets when you surely don't rule? Do they offer this House, the present, agreements? Future agreements on a budget which you have drawn up but which you will certainly not be able to fulfil because it is another government that is here to manage the resources you consider. Those of us here are realizing, Minister, that you are absolutely irresponsible, not responsible. They have not made these budgets under the responsibility, but under the irresponsibility and lack of ethics - I will leave it there - for the citizens, who are going to choose those who represent us next year, if the government stops being so afraid and finally calls an election that it should have already called. It is the only thing that reflects these budgets, irresponsibility, electoralism and lack of courage to give citizens the floor so that it is they who choose their representatives, finally form government and draw up budgets according to the policies they want to develop, because the budgets are not just numbers, we have said it a thousand and once, they are political, and these budgets reflect their policy, which does not have to be the policy of the next government. You have no right to laugh at citizenship in what you will choose in the future. Nor do you have any right to impose budgets on a future government that I hope and wish is not you for the sake of education in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards, however, continue to suffer the cuts that have been made across the whole spectrum of politics in this country, the cuts that have been made in the implementation of policies that have been developed and that have led them to suffer in this regard. I will tell you something - I said it in the Commission but I want to repeat it here - the number of poor and at risk of exclusion has doubled since 2007, the beginning of the crisis. The number of rich has risen by 10% and in 2014 continues. I am talking about 2014 because the report I am referring to is from that year. Today we are at 40% since 2007. This is the most important part of that report. The richest have hijacked political processes and decisions, manipulating them to favor their interests. From this attrition my parliamentary group has repeatedly stated that the richest are conditioning the policies of this country according to their interests, not the interests of the citizens, you say what you say, because those who are managing and who have managed that policy have been the People's Party Government. I insist, my group has said this from here on numerous occasions. But it is not this time that my group says so, even though I put it in my mouth, it is an organization of such prestige, you will recognize it, as Oxfam Intermon. When we referred to these issues, you have called us radicals, and you are right. We are radical and we will continue to be radical because we want to go to the root of the problem, and the root of the problem of these policies that have been carried out by the People's Party Government and by the ministry that you run today have been - they have been, therefore will not be more - the policies of an economy that has led to the crisis situation, to the unfortunate situation in which many citizens in this country find themselves. Those have been their policies, which we want to eradicate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed to one slogan that is clearly electoralist. We said that at the beginning of this legislature. The slogan that you have followed and that you continue to maintain is the slogan of the general market budgets. It is not the general budgets that citizenship needs, it is not the budgets that education needs in this country. They have been, are - and it seems that they will no longer be, despite you - the general market policy, which has imposed policies in this country have led to increased poverty and exclusion. I finish, because I no longer have time, with a few words from the Nobel Peace Prize - well deserved, by the way - Malala Yousafzai, words that today make a lot of sense: If you want to end the war with another war you will never achieve peace. Money spent on tanks, weapons and soldiers must be spent on books, pencils and schools. Let us apply the story, because that is the real and true way of obtaining public education, free and necessary in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs García Álvarez. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió has the floor, first of all, Mr Barberà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Union has tabled a complete amendment to the distribution of expenditure in this section concerning its ministry. It did not share - again - the opinion it expressed at the beginning, Minister, on the triumphalism of these budgets, and a clear example are the territorial cooperation programmes, which seek to improve education, excellence, reduce inequalities and equity in access to education. [[The lady]] Please note, Minister: in 2010, 147 million euros for Catalonia; in 2016, we can reach 10 million thanks to the call of the scholarship program for books and school materials. 147 to 10 million. This involves centrifuging these programmes to the autonomous communities that, together with the educational community, have made impossible efforts to further improve education. As for scholarships and study grants, what better day than today to recall the request for the transfer of scholarships - Constitutional Court judgment 188/2001 -: Catalonia is competent for the complete implementation of the scholarship policies. And what do we want the scholarships for? We want to solve the discrimination suffered by our students and families, to adapt the thresholds for access to scholarships, to have a model of academic demand and to adapt the formula and the quantities in order to be able to adjust them to the cost of living in Catalonia. I would also like to highlight the amendment that we have tabled for the reduction of 5 million to 1 million euros the amount that comes to cover the experiment Wert, which was only seeking to attack the Catalan language and the Catalan school model. Minister, dedicate that million not to families who want to go to private centers to have more Spanish as a vehicle language subjects, but to dining grants. That will be more useful, indeed, because what we announced happened, that Mr Wert sought a solution to a problem that did not exist. As for sports, I will focus on the amendment that Unió Democrática has tabled for the direct contribution of 15 million euros from the General Budgets of the State for 2016 to the Games of the Mediterranean of Tarragona 2017. Those responsible seem to have made sense, common sense, and dialogue has recovered. Joined has helped this because Joined - you know it and these days it is clear - is symbol of signy and dialogue. A territory of more than 500,000 people, 16 municipalities headquarters of the provinces of Tarragona and Barcelona, an investment to generate economic activity, facilities that will then be a quality offer for sports tourism, worldwide projection. Tarragona doesn't deserve it? Do we not deserve this EUR 15 million investment in Tarragona? As far as Culture is concerned, the amendments are grouped into two blocks. One, which tries to solve the abuse of culture in the economic and budgetary policies of the People's Party, to reduce cultural VAT is necessary and it is necessary to amend the Law on Sponsorship with regard to fiscal incentives, a promise not fulfilled by the People's Party. Another, the abuse of Catalan cultural equipment, you have said so. The Culture budget has increased by 12%, investment in state cultural equipment by 20% and investment in Catalan cultural equipment by 3.2%. To end and take advantage of you being here. In February 2015 a scholarship program aimed at university graduates with 22 million euros, pilot test. No one told me what happened. Mr Wert is gone, Mrs Gomendio is gone, and with them it seems that the programme and the EUR 22 million have disappeared. Minister, we have 7 million left to have the 15 for the Mediterranean Games of Tarragona 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Barberà. Mrs Sayós has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u13	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, once section 18 has been examined, it is so far from the reality that our Parliamentary Convergence Group cannot present any alternative but its return to the Government. Gentlemen of the Government, politics is not done from an office or from a pedestal in which you have been settled for a long time. No, it's not like that. Politics is done on the street, listening to citizens and these budgets are not made from reality, they are not made listening to citizens but they are made from their mere vision and, more importantly, with political myopia. Minister, this is not the way to draw up a budget for education, culture and sport, subjects of sufficient and extraordinary sensitivity that your ministry should have, which this government should have. Since the President, Minister, is not present, tell him: Mr Rajoy, you have your hands like this and not like this, which is how you should have them. [[Put your hands behind your ears]] [[Place your left hand in the ear in listening position]] In addition, I must remind this Government that the autonomous communities have exclusive competence in sport, culture and education. Catalonia wants to exercise them, as provided for in the Spanish Constitution, and with the consequent sufficient funding, as well as the State must also comply with repeated judicial sentences. For example, the most recent: It is the responsibility of the Generalitat de Catalunya to manage the award of scholarships. 17% of all students study in Catalonia, while only 8 young Catalans out of 100 receive scholarships. You will understand, Minister, that our students do not have the same opportunities and this is not welcome. I do not have enough time to explain all the amendments, but I will mention a few. In the field of sport, the Mediterranean Olympic Games, only the Government's contribution is missing. Next year is the Olympic year and the San Cugat High Performance Center, as always, will be filled with athletes to train and perfect their performance at the Olympic Games. An amendment is therefore being tabled for a larger allocation. I want to make a strong statement about what a scandal is, Minister. His ministry, the government, is a morose with capitals. Year after year this parliamentary group claims payment of 4.5 million euros for the year 2011 and which were budgeted for the center of San Cugat. The year 2011 was pre-Olympic and many athletes trained in this center and today -2015 - you have not yet paid. We've asked for it as an asset and a liability, and every time they come up with an excuse. Please, Minister, when you get to your office, do me the favor of ordering payment of this debt. With regard to culture, Minister, between the fact that the State does not comply with the pacts established with the Gran Teatre del Liceu or with the Museo Nacional de Arte Contemporáneo, between the budget does not include any aid for the promotion of cinema and audiovisual in co-official languages other than Spanish, between the application of an abusive VAT, and between the fact that the largest amount of investment in Catalonia corresponds to the 2018-2019 financial year, the State not only drowns Catalonia fiscally and financially but also denies us culturally. As far as education is concerned - I conclude - you must be sensitive to the demands we have made on several occasions. It should postpone the Lomce application. Moreover, his Government had an outstanding issue and a serious and important debate: the abolition of the additional provision thirty-eight of the Lomce and the consequent budget line and the allocation of this heading to increase as far as Catalonia was concerned the aid for textbooks. Finally - ten seconds - a politician when he is engaged in politics has the duty and obligation to find solutions and leave things better than how he has found them, but you leave sport, culture and education worse. They turn their backs on sport, culture and education. In short, these budgets turn their backs not only on Catalonia, but also on all citizens. You can change them, but it's up to you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs. Outós. Mr Bedera has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of the few statements made by the President of the Government in the field of education there are two that stand out above the others. In January 2005, Mr. Rajoy said: We will firmly oppose anything that involves the risk of dismemberment of our educational system into seventeen different educational systems. End of date. And in November 2011 he said: I'm going to put the scissors on everything, except public pensions, health and education, where I don't want to cut citizens' rights. Four years later, what is the balance of the Government's education policy? Well, he did exactly the opposite of what he said. It has made the scissors the main instrument of its educational policy and has favored the implementation of seventeen different educational systems and these, Minister, are the budgets that consolidate the cuts and dismemberment of our educational system. Let's start with the cuts. The president who was not going to put the scissors has cut in the five years a total of 3.1 billion euros that, in addition to the 3,700 that recognized the memory of the decree-law of April 2012, triggers the cut to the 6,800 million euros, almost 7 tenths of our GDP. But the President's true intentions, which he did not want to cut citizens' rights, are manifested in his commitment to Brussels to cut our educational investment to 3.7% of GDP in 2018, that is, a setback that brings us back to 1990. In order to counter the painful cuts - in special education one hundred per cent, in compensation 92 per cent, in VET, in teacher training, 93 per cent, in operation of the university and its research groups 70 per cent, in artistic education 47 per cent and in children's education 38 per cent - the Socialist Group presents a set of amendments that recover the territorial cooperation programmes and reinforce the ill-defined principle of equal opportunities. Mr Minister, this bloodbath that we have dragged for four years is not cut by a cut of two hundred and ten million, in which the secondary education and the FP go up, because the increase is only intended to finance the Lomce's own implementation and because in addition most of the credits go to Chapter 8, to loans to the communities that you hope to recover from the European Social Fund, but which are of dubious collection, as demonstrated in the appearance of the Secretary of State. Our amendments also seek to re-establish the social dimension of education, which has been repeatedly attacked by this government and unmatched in the OECD countries. We are the only country that goes up enrollment and low scholarships, the only one that in the midst of the crisis has eliminated the scholarship as a right, the only one that to justify a cut of more than 40% in Erasmus scholarships is invented a national and elitist Erasmus, within the reach of very few. With this service sheet you will not pretend to applaud the rickets increase of 19 hundredths in scholarships; not until the 276 million lost these years, the 16,000 less beneficiaries and the decrease of 670 euros of average amount according to the figures of the ministry itself. Nor does it greatly alleviate the fact that, after four years without textbooks, three months after the elections - it has been said here - and in a budget that this government is not going to manage, they recover only 25 of the 98 million that there was in 2012. As for the replacement rate, the trumpet with which they announced their increase could be saved. It will not begin to be noticed until within two courses and, therefore, Minister, it is false that the ratio per pupil will be reduced by 20% this course that has just begun. In addition, under no circumstances will it return to the classroom the 24,000 non-university teachers and the 6,000 university professors expelled from the education system in these black years. That is why my group is submitting an amendment setting the replacement rate at 150% to recover the human capital wasted in this parliamentary term. As I said at first, these are also the budgets that consolidate and finance the fracture that Lomce is causing in our educational system and the emergence of seventeen subsystems. You, who presume to guarantee national stability in all fields, are breaking it in the educational field, as the National Association of Institute Professors has denounced - among others -. How is it possible that a cantabrian student has thirty-five hours a year more of Language - two months of class - than a bat? Or that a Basque has thirty-five hours less mathematics than a Galician if they are to present themselves to the same revalid? Why does an Andalusian have access to Citizenship Education and not a Madridn? Why can a student who changes his or her autonomous community have gaps in his or her curriculum because he or she is unable to take courses that were given in the autonomy of destination in previous courses? This is the panorama of dispersion that we find at the beginning of the course and that its budget supports: seventeen different study plans. I'm done, Minister. We're very disappointed in you. Very good forms, but more of the same. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u16	You have the floor for the same group, Mr Torres Mora.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I rise to ask you to lower your cultural VAT. If you want to facilitate citizens' access to culture, lower cultural VAT. If you want to facilitate the development of our cultural industry, lower the cultural VAT. The rise in cultural VAT did not respond to any decision on economic rationality, but it did respond to political retaliation against an uncomfortable sector. [[Applauds]] It is a sector that represents more than 3% of the gross domestic product and that is strategic for our country politically and that feeds hundreds of thousands of people. There are many needs in culture and I have hardly a minute. We have drafted many amendments, but I would summarise our requests in two. You lower the cultural VAT - accept that amendment - and be so kind as to come on some occasion before the end of your term to the Congressional Committee on Culture, which exists and which we ask you to come to when you were appointed minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Torres. Mrs Moneo has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that neither your amendments to the whole nor your partial amendments can hide the sterility of your approaches to the education budget. I see that the majority opposition group and some other group have re-edited their intervention in the Committee on Budgets, which, by the way, is a re-edition of the argument we have been hearing in this House for the past three years. To be honest, I believe that little or nothing brings to the educational and budgetary debate your speeches, ladies and gentlemen, and frankly, we are not at a time when frivolities are free. Think about it. If you do not like this budget, you are in your right, but the least that this House can expect is a serious and rigorous alternative that clearly defines a project. It has not been so because, as on other occasions, you do not look to the future, you remain petrified in the past. Their budgets re-emphasize those policies that waste resources in some cases or fail to meet objectives in others. There is nothing that allows us to see what they want to do and what their priorities are. We have repeated this to the point of satiety, so important is to invest more than to invest better, and you, Mr Socialist Group, are specialists in investing badly. We are the first to argue that resources for education will always be necessary. For this reason, and even under less favourable conditions than those which you had to manage, the budget has been increased for the third consecutive year; you yourselves recognise it in the amendment to the whole of which you have submitted. These circumstances have also made it necessary to define clearly priorities even though the economic change of our country is a fact. The priorities are clear, ladies and gentlemen, the teacher; these budgets ensure a 100 per cent replacement rate precisely because giving stability to the teacher is essential if we are to get the best ones to take a step forward towards the exercise of teaching. You're now asking for 150%. But if you left the replacement rate at 30% when there was supposed to be no crisis in this country! To what then was that punishment due to the professorship? By the way, Minister, we can only congratulate ourselves on the adoption last Friday of the royal decree which allows from now on, by a modification of the LOU, both internal promotion and mobility in the university teaching bodies do not compute in the replacement rate of the teacher. The quality of the system, for which the budgets include an important item for the implementation of Lomce. This budget is also included in the more than 2 billion that the communities are going to receive next year. You are now concerned about the breakdown of the system. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, they have it very easily. What you have to do is call the socialist education counselors of the autonomous communities, sit down and tell them to comply with the law and to respect the common teachings; you will see how the system then does not break. [[Rumors]] There are also support for families, to which we must acknowledge the heroic effort they have made in recent years. That is why the social nature of this budget is vital if they are to have the indirect aid for the purchase of textbooks once again, if they are to be sure that the new system of grants and study aid is realistic and, above all, a viable system, which, while it depends on us, will grow progressively, as it has done in recent years, until this year the highest figure in its historical series. Ladies and gentlemen, stop shaking the ghost of fear, the scholarship system has survived, and it has done so despite you. Today's scholarship and study grants have more money than ever, today there are more university fellows than ever, today the scholarships represent more than 50% of the total budget of the educational budget. Since 2011, the number of scholarships has increased by 248 million. Today, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to efficient management, we can maintain the system of scholarships and grants of a special nature for university, non-university and foreign language learning. In short, ladies and gentlemen, so that our system is more and more supportive of those who need it most, but also with those who strive to deserve it most. Frankly, it is not credible that they go up to this rostrum to demand more resources by jumping all the rules of budgetary arithmetic, without defining priorities and resurrecting items whose failure in educational action is more than contrasted. It is not serious that you, the Socialist Group and a number of groups want to increase the heading for Section 31 by more than 1.80%. Just as it is difficult to defend that its alternative to the culture budget is based on actions and actions that are punctually completely random without specifying the why of each of them nor do they record amounts consistent with the actual cost of the action. You, the alleged defenders of this country's culture, continue to bandits on one side and on the other without us being clear what your final claim is. I said this in the Commission and let me repeat it again: not only has the culture budget grown by more than 12%, what has really grown has been the agenda of actions that clearly define a cultural policy: intellectual property reform, regulation of micro-methodism, tax incentives for cinema and the performing arts and a reform of the model of film financing that has had the consensus of the sector; ladies and gentlemen, with the consensus of the sector. I'm done. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary effort made in our country by both the government and the different educational administrations is truly commendable, it has been, over the years, despite the fact that none of them, including, by the way, those governed by the Socialist Party, have achieved that 7% that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is now trying to achieve, on the contrary, historical reference communities such as Andalusia between 2011 and 2015 have reduced their budget by about 10% and Asturias by more than 8%. By the way, the last socialist government also reduced the budget in non-university education - when this is precisely where we play the future of our young people - by more than 23%. I could ask them whether that is the budget they wanted to make or respond to their priorities or whether it is an educational model that was reflected in that budget but I will not do so. However, they are going to allow me to tell them that it is no longer useful, but, ladies and gentlemen, that incoherence, easy speech and the defence of particular interests above the general interest have no place in Spanish society. I would ask them to reflect, ask them to come down from their watch as a majority opposition group, to offer a serious alternative and to seek consensus. That's what most Spaniards demand of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs Moneo. We shall now proceed to the debate on section 16. The Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government for his presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I come once again to this House to present the draft budgets of the Ministry of the Interior, which is integrated into the overall draft general state budgets for the next financial year 2016. As a first general consideration, I would like to point out that, in my view, the budget balance of this Parliament can certainly be regarded as positive. The economic situation that this Government inherited forced, as we all know, adjustment measures that affected, as it could not otherwise be, the Ministry of the Interior, but thanks to these measures, as I had occasion to tell your ladies and gentlemen on the occasion of the presentation and defence of the 2014 budgets, a turning point was already taking place at that time that heralded the path of economic growth and employment generation, a situation that we are already in today. The purpose of the 2016 draft budgets is to work together, as it cannot otherwise be, to consolidate this growth in a context of clear economic recovery, as the forecasts of various international bodies, including national ones, and as the positive evolution of GDP in recent quarters can be seen. This clear improvement in economic indicators is what allows the Ministry of the Interior budget for the next year, including the autonomous bodies and in consolidated terms, to rise to just over €8.2 billion, an increase of 4% over 2015. If we consider only the activities of the Ministry of the Interior without autonomous bodies, the budget is slightly more than 7.4 billion euros, which in this case would mean an increase, compared to 2015, of 3.91%; 4% in one case and 3.91% in the other, of increase in homogeneous terms. As I say to you, in order to reach these figures it is necessary, in fact, to compare both budgets in homogeneous terms; that is, by separately determining the electoral appropriations of each year; slightly more than 345 million euros in the budgets of this year 2015, since we have had - as your lords know - or we will have, at the end of four electoral calls - the Andalusian autonomic elections, the Catalan autonomic elections, the municipal elections and the general elections, while for the next financial year 2016, there are only two calls, in principle, which are those of the Basque Country and Galicia, for whose purpose some 123 million euros are budgeted. In order for the comparison to be in homogeneous terms, first of all, it is clear that these appropriations must be released from the respective budgets for both years, 2015 in one case and 2016 in the other. Secondly, in order to remain a homogeneous comparison, we must add the allocations for centralised recruitment services to the initiatives planned by the CORA, which, for the Ministry of the Interior in 2016, amount to more than EUR 14.3 million. I'll come back briefly on that later. And, thirdly - and I continue with the things we have to do to make the comparison homogeneous and therefore valid - we have to calculate the wage increase of public employees negotiated with trade unions, which is set out in section 31 of the general budgets, and the criterion of stabilising staffing in the public employment offer for 2016, to which I will also refer briefly below. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary growth of 4% will undoubtedly contribute to the incipient economic growth that already exists, without neglecting the tools or instruments that the Government has been implementing since the beginning of the legislature in order to get, among all, to reactivate our economy and get out of the recession, such as fiscal consolidation, deficit control and structural reforms to improve productivity and administrative efficiency. I would like to dwell in particular on this last point, where the Ministry of the Interior has made an effort which we can without exaggeration describe as important, ladies and gentlemen, since greater efficiency and productivity should be achieved without diminishing the quality of the services we provide, services which, as we all know, citizens consider essential for their safety and well-being by demonstrating in this way that efficiency and efficiency are not concepts that are contradictory but quite the opposite; they are compatible and complementary. The Government has been sensitive to this fact and proof of this is that the weight of the Ministry of the Interior in all public expenditure of the State has not been reduced during this legislature. In particular, Section 16, Interior for the next financial year 2016 is increased by 3 tenths, from 4.4% in 2015 to 4.7% by 2016. Another economic stimulus for growth is the budgetary investment effort, for which we have forecast an increase of 14.61 %, compared to 2015, with the autonomous bodies and which amounts to 23 % if we exclude those bodies. In productivity improvement initiatives, I would like to highlight the centralised recruitment programme, which involves the transfer of a set of appropriations from Chapter 2, so far managed by the Ministry - cleaning, postal services, telecommunications, etc. - and which go to section 31 of the general budgets to be managed centrally and, consequently, with significant cost savings. These measures are the result of the Commission's work on public administration reform, CORA. As for spending chapters, before I expose them, I want to stop, if I may, in the public employment offer for 2016. The Government's forecast for the corps of State Security Forces and Prison Institutions is to stabilize staffing, which involves the replacement of all casualties, i.e. a 100 per cent replacement rate. With regard to the various expenditure chapters of the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, including the autonomous agencies, the most important figures and variations of each of them are those that I briefly set out to them. With regard to Chapter 1, staff costs, which in a ministry such as that of the Interior, with almost 200,000 people dependent on it, is logically the most important quantitatively of the budget; we are talking about something more than EUR 6,159 million, which represents 76.8% of the total budget of the ministry, but, I repeat, we are talking about Chapter 1, staff costs, in a ministry with almost 200,000 people dependent on it and providing its services in it. This is therefore a chapter that is particularly affected for 2016 because of what I mentioned earlier: the increase in the replenishment rate from 50 % to 100 % for the bodies I have indicated, and the negotiations concluded by the Government with the public employees' unions for the 1% increase in salaries, as well as the commitment to recover 50 % of the extraordinary pay, both of which are reflected in section 31 of these general budgets. [[Civil Guard, National Police and Prison Institutions]] In Chapter 2, current expenditure on goods and services, account must be taken of both the electoral appropriations, to which I referred earlier, and the centralised recruitment initiatives of CORA, both of which must be discounted if the comparison of the budgets for this financial year 2015 and of which I am presenting them for 2016 can be made, as I have repeatedly pointed out, in homogeneous terms in order to be valid. Without electoral appropriations, therefore, nor CORA's centralised recruitment initiatives - therefore, in homogeneous terms - the allocation of Chapter 2 for 2016 is almost EUR 1,403 million, which means an increase of 3,84 % over the current expenditure for 2015, which was EUR 1,351 million. With regard to debt payments, the Ministry has made an important management effort by having managed to avoid and eliminate inadequacies and debts, so that no provision for debt payments is already included in this budget. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that at the end of the 2011 financial year - the first one we are with - the Ministry of the Interior presented a living debt amounting to more than 217 million euros, precisely at a time of economic recession, of falling tax revenues, etc. Therefore, we all had to make a special effort to liquidate it; as I say to you, there is no debt in the Ministry of the Interior at this time. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to clean up the ministry's finances by eliminating that debt which, if it had followed the trend of previous years, would have seriously affected the efficiency and effectiveness of the services to be provided from the department. In short, less debt - now, now, zero - and better service. In chapter 4, current transfers, I have already pointed out to you that we cannot avoid, as is evident in a very significant way, variations in electoral appropriations. Although this chapter has a small weight in the entire budget of the ministry, it is endowed for 2016 with slightly more than 120 million euros; 4.96 million more than in 2015 or, which is the same, an increase of 4,30 %. Chapter 6, real investments, is the one experiencing the greatest growth. It is endowed with almost 289 million euros, an increase of more than 14.6% compared to 2015. These investments will be aimed at improving the quality of life of citizens, reinforcing the services directly related to their security - citizen, road and in the prison -, distributing fundamentally - we are talking about real investments - between the Secretariat of State of Security, 37.5 million euros; National Police, 27 million; Guardia Civil, 38.7 million; Prisons, 10 million; and Directorate General of Traffic, 133.6 million euros. In this area, I would like to highlight the provisions for police stations and civilian guard barracks. Very briefly, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall now refer to the most relevant spending programmes of the Ministry and its management centres. As regards the programmes entrusted to the Undersecretariat of the Interior, the Undersecretariat will manage a total of 966 million euros, in consolidated terms. The specific civil protection programme, which they know is 134.M - they know for sure, at least the spokespersons and the deputies of the Committee on the Interior - is managed by the Directorate-General for Civil Protection and Emergencies and maintains a similar level of expenditure to 2015. In addition to this programme, as honourable Members know, the appropriations to cover - this is very important - compensation for disasters and emergencies are extendable. On the other hand, I would like to make a special mention of the effort made with all parliamentary groups and to coordinate with the local and autonomous administrations to reach agreement on the new Law 17/2015 of 9 July of the national civil protection system, adopted a few months ago by this House and which will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening our national civil protection system. Following the programmes managed by the Undersecretary of the Interior, we meet with the Directorate-General for Internal Policy, which manages two important programmes. The issue of elections and political parties is affected by the forecast, as I have already mentioned, of conducting two electoral processes in principle next year, in the Basque Country and Galicia - I am not extending there in terms of forecasts, for obvious reasons - and to this end the programme is endowed with something more than 123 million euros. I have already told you that it is 222 million less than by 2015, because this year, as we know, we have had more elections, we will have Catalan autonomous elections on 27 September and before the end of the year general elections. [[municipal and regional authorities]] Therefore, that is what justifies this reduction. The second programme managed by the Directorate-General for Internal Policy, which is very important and is absolutely and rabidly topical - if I may say so - is that of the right of asylum and stateless persons. They are not hidden from their relevance because we are all aware of the humanitarian tragedy, the human exodus that is taking place in various parts of Europe; first it was in the Central Mediterranean, now it is moving towards the Eastern Mediterranean and to Central and Eastern Europe. I take this opportunity to tell you that, if at first - we all have in mind the tragedy of Lampedusa in 2013 - the route of the Central Mediterranean was the one chosen especially by the people who in that human exodus tried to escape from the tragedy, the war and the other conflicts that are taking place in the area, today, as we were told yesterday in the JHA Council of Ministers we had in Brussels, this trend has changed. [[the terrorism of Daesh, etc.]] The proportion until recently was one to three in terms of refugees going through the Central Mediterranean as regards the route of the Aegean Sea, the Eastern Mediterranean, and at the moment it is shifting to a ratio of one to five; that is, of each refugee going from Libya to Italy through the Central Mediterranean four going along the route of the Eastern Mediterranean. I am referring to refugees leaving Turkey, arriving in the Greek islands and from there moving towards the continent, passing through Macedonia, Hungary and following, dramatically, the route we now know through the various media. We are talking about a programme of special relevance right now. In this regard, I would like to stress that in this situation the Government, as it cannot otherwise be, is taking a positive and constructive, supportive and responsible position before Europe, being part of the solution and not part of the problem. This is also acknowledged at the JHA Council of Ministers of the Interior, as I had the opportunity to check it once again yesterday at the meeting we had. We are dealing here with this drama, which, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, has not been agreed because some countries have blocked the decision to be adopted unanimously on a proposal from the Presidency, in this Luxembourg case. We have adopted a position, as it cannot otherwise be in the face of this situation, especially solidarity and constructive, and which, as I say, has been acknowledged to us. It has been recognized that Spain is a referent, and we should all know that because it is so. Spain has become a focal point in the European Union - more and more mentioned in public speeches - on the control of irregular immigration. The fact that neither the Atlantic front nor the Western Mediterranean is currently producing a humanitarian tragedy, as is the case in the Central Mediterranean, the Eastern Mediterranean and Central Europe, is precisely because Spain is acting with solidarity and responsibility. The first to speak yesterday at the JHA Council in Brussels was the President of Acnur, Don António Guterres, who began by referring to Spain by talking about this issue, thanking and publicly recognizing Spain that, with its responsible and solidarity work on the Atlantic front and in the Western Mediterranean and with its collaboration with the countries of origin and transit, specifically Mauritania, Senegal and Morocco, it was preventing these humanitarian tragedies from occurring in that area. What we often do not recognize is being recognized more and more on the outside. I am talking about the President of Acnur, but I can also do this from representatives and ministers of the interior of several very important countries and states of the Union, who, in their public interventions in the JHA Councils over and over again, are reiterating Spain's policy for the control of irregular immigration as a reference model. In fact, the European programme of return to the list of safe countries is an initiative that Spain has repeatedly put on the table at the meetings of the JHA Councils and also at those specialized groups, such as the G-6 or the G-10, which, as you know, deal continuously with these issues which affect both stability and the security of an area as important as the European Union, which must be characterized as an area of freedom, justice, security and solidarity. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, we have made a special effort to ensure compliance with the provisions of Law 12/2009 of 30 October, which regulates the right of asylum and subsidiary protection, establishing a considerable increase of more than 105 % over 2015. On the other hand, as you know very well because you have actively and positively contributed to this and in order to respond to the forecasts for the reception of refugees which we estimate in figures which I will now give you, in agreement with all the parliamentary groups - the Minister for Employment and Social Security has already explained - in the context of the heading relating to the international protection system, which initially in the draft budget was endowed with EUR 24,125,000, an additional EUR 200 million has been added by way of amendment. Thus, at present we have for the international protection system an allocation of 229 million euros - in short, it is a question of providing the necessary resources in the budgets for the reception and integration of these refugees - which in any case can be extended with extraordinary credits if it is considered necessary given the so dynamic evolution of the events. As I am speaking on this issue, as your ladies and gentlemen know, on 9 and 20 July there were two JHA Councils, which discussed the European Commission's proposal for a decision on two programmes; one of them was the resettlement of 20,000 people. You know that resettlement means placing people who are susceptible to asylum or international protection outside the territory of the European Union; they are people who have not arrived in the European Union, who are in refugee camps, mainly in Jordan and Lebanon. This is one of the resettlement programmes in which Spain has been collaborating in a special way since 2010 - the possibility of extending it to other countries such as Turkey, etc. - to resettle 20,000 of these refugees, and quotas were set for each of the twenty-eight States of the Union; there were also talks about 40,000 resettled, people who could claim asylum or international protection and who had already arrived in the European Union, specifically Greece and Italy. The criterion is that the nationals to whom such a relocation programme would apply would initially be Syrians and Eritreans exclusively, with the possibility of extending it to third-country nationals who had obtained at least 75 per cent of the grant in asylum applications when such nationals were concerned. For the time being, we are talking about Italy and Greece as regards countries where hotspots should be installed in which those people should be identified and those who are economic immigrants should be differentiated from those who are refugees because of war or any other issue that might eventually lead to such a request for asylum and the corresponding grant. Speaking of Greece and Italy, and of the installation of these hotspots, the JHA Council of the day before yesterday was concrete in the proposal of conclusion - not achieving unanimity, it has not yet been approved; in order to try to achieve it we will meet again next Tuesday, this time in Luxembourg - that today, 16 September, the five hotspots that it has planned Italy had to come into operation - one in Lampedusa, one in the south of the peninsula, in Puglia, and three in Sicily - plus that of Greece in the port of Piraeus, in Athens. To date they had to be put in place so that this relocation programme could start to be implemented on a transitional and voluntary basis - I am talking about last July - and for a period of two years. As you know, the 40,000 relocation programme allocated quotas that took into account population variables, gross domestic product, efforts to contain irregular immigration and the unemployment rate of each country. That meant an allocation to each of the countries, which, being voluntary in nature, led to that figure being obtained for the 20,000 people who could be resettled, and too much, yet we stayed at 32,237 compared to the 40,000 to relocate. It is clear that this is no problem because it is a two-year programme, if today we already have more than 32,000, it is clear that there is no problem so that in the course of this temporary and voluntary two-year programme the 7,700 missing will be achieved. In fact, the Commission's agreement was that by the end of the year we will reach a pact to see how we distribute those 7,700 potentially refugee people and that they will consolidate the 40,000 figure to be relocated, agreed voluntarily by all the States - I shall now refer to that - that we are on that programme. For these programmes we are not the 28 Member States of the European Union. As you know, there are three countries - Ireland, the United Kingdom and Denmark - that are opting in, opting out, and therefore are in their right to benefit from them or not. In principle, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Denmark are not voluntarily integrated into the relocation, but they have finally stated that, although they are in the opting out, they will cooperate; they have made offers of accommodation. Then there are four countries that are part of the Schengen border code and are not part of the European Union, but are involved in that programme. [[Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway]] We are therefore not strictly talking about the twenty-eight states of the Union, but about the twenty-six Schengen states most voluntarily some states. The summary of everything is that we are in the front row, despite what is said, regarding the voluntariness of the programs of July 2011 of 20,000 resettled and 40,000 relocated. Before yesterday the European Parliament, President Juncker, presented the proposal of 120,000 relocated on a compulsory basis, no longer just for Greece and Italy, but it is left unconcrete to see whether or not Hungary will eventually enter as well. In any case, it is intended to be non-transitional, but there is the possibility that it will be voluntary, which would require amending the Dublin Minutes. That has a great political significance and explains that the discussions, the debates are intense, because, if we want to do it right and we have to change such fundamental issues as the Dublin agreement in order to reach a unanimous pact, by participating in the European Parliament the process is particularly complex. All that said, Spain has accepted without reservation the quota allocated to us in this last program of 120,000 relocated, which is almost 15,000 to relocate as potential refugees fleeing the war or for other reasons that, as provided for in international treaties, could justify the request and the granting of asylum or international protection. In our case they would amount to 15,000, which in addition to those we already counted in July would lead us to 18,000. Apart from these programmes, given the geostrategic situation in Spain, it is important to keep this in mind, on the border of Beni Ensar, in Melilla, and in the Tarajal, in Ceuta, this year, I inaugurated asylum and shelter offices so that people who want to reach Spain, therefore to the European Union, through Melilla or Ceuta, which are also Schengen areas, could do so, in addition to making it clear that those who try to jump the fences illegally are not potential illegal but irregular immigrants for economic reasons that are not entitled to asylum. Those who have it - mainly there come Syrians in the vast majority - have asylum offices there. What we have been doing for the past year is already thousands and thousands of people who have applied for asylum at the Asylum and Refugee Office on the Beni Ensar border in Melilla, one of the four borders that Melilla has with Morocco, as your ladies and gentlemen know. We are growing at a rate of 50 requests per day. If we continue this way in Ceuta, and especially in Melilla, as well as in other units of the Peninsula, mainly in the Asylum and Refugee Office, the CIEs and also in the delegations and sub-delegations of the Government in the units dedicated to asylum applications, in view of the latest developments, the estimate is that at the end of the year 12,000 people have applied for asylum in Spain, which together with the 5,000 requests from Dublin would lead us to between 17,000 and 18,000 more asylum applications, which would triple those of the last year and would have to be added to the programmes of the European Union and the Commission to which I have referred earlier. Today we would be talking about a commitment this year of more than 35,000 asylum seekers, and that without counting the irregular immigrants on whom Spain is working in a very special way, securing our borders in the Atlantic façade and in the area of the Western Mediterranean. I am sorry that I have been extended at this point, but it is so topical and topical, it is a matter of concern and shock to the public with such intensity that, to the extent that it is up to the Ministry of the Interior together with the Ministry of Employment and Social Security to manage this reality, it was justified that I should extend a little in this matter. I turn to another area, which concerns the victims of terrorism. I take this opportunity to say that yesterday I had the opportunity to participate in a particularly emotional and important event. In the prison of Martutene, in San Sebastián, a tribute ceremony was held for the first time in Spain to officials of penal institutions, specifically to officials killed by ETA serving in the prison of Martutene, in San Sebastián. [[Applauds]] It must be extremely hopeful for all - I insist, for all - that all the authorities and a representation of all the political forces were present. They were leaders of the People's Party, of the Socialist Party, but also of course of the PNV and of the Abertzale left, in addition to authorities - from the security adviser of the Basque Government, to the mayor of San Sebastián, to the deputy general of Guipúzcoa, to the president of the General Councils of Guipúzcoa, etc.; all the judicial authorities of the Basque Country and the province of Guipúzcoa, etc. -. In other words, there was a very qualified representation, institutional, political, judicial and of the victims of terrorism and their families. It was unthinkable that such a fact could occur at the moment - I repeat - in a prison such as that of Martutene in San Sebastián, paying tribute, with all the parliamentary bow and all the highly qualified institutional representation, to officials of that prison killed by ETA. That was yesterday morning. It is very hopeful because I was reminded by the Secretary General of Prison Institutions that on the day that he was killed by ETA in 1997 Gómez Elósegui, one of those who yesterday honored themselves as a victim of terrorism, made a simple tribute, a minute of silence in the entrance hall to the prison but there were only three people in that act. Yesterday, as I say, there was no shortage of those who had to pay tribute to those three prison officials who were serving in Martutene prison and who were killed by ETA. I really believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is important to put it into value, to make it manifest. [[Applauds]] Attention to victims of terrorism is, of course, a responsibility, competence and priority for the Ministry of the Interior; priority that we have given to the implementation of Law 29/2011 on recognition and comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism, adopting the regulations that develop it by Royal Decree 671/2013 of 6 September. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that a total of 5,231 applications for aid and compensation have been processed during this parliamentary term and up to this September, and a total of EUR 117.3 million has been paid for this purpose. The Directorate-General for Support to Victims of Terrorism manages two additional credits. The first is that of compensation, aid and subsidies derived from that law, and is expandable in nature, so regardless of the initial appropriation, all obligations arising from the new regulations for the development of the law will undoubtedly be met. This Directorate also manages a specific appropriation for grants to associations, foundations and non-profit entities whose aim is to represent and defend the interests of victims of terrorism, which we maintain for this financial year 2016 at EUR 880,000. I conclude this reference to the victims of terrorism by mentioning the initiative to establish and set up the memorial centre for the victims of terrorism. It is a strategic project for this ministry and derives from a legal mandate, because it is created by article 57 of the Law on the Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism. I would like to recall that this law was adopted unanimously by this House and was the result not of a bill but of a joint bill proposed by the different parliamentary groups. Therefore, the memorial centre for victims of terrorism is a priority of this ministry that derives from a unanimous legal mandate of this House. As I had the opportunity to say yesterday in the act to which I referred, this memorial centre must be constituted as the vault key of the building that must contribute to ensuring the principles that inform this law of memory, truth, dignity and justice for the victims of terrorism and it feels the basis of the account, of the historical truth of what happened in the Basque Country and in the whole of Spain during these years of lead, of decades of ETA terrorism, so that on this historical truth a true peaceful coexistence and freedom worthy of such name is established in the Basque Country and, of course, in all areas where ETA terrorism has created nothing but suffering, death and pain. For the rehabilitation works of this memorial center, which is already underway in what was the headquarters of the Banco de España in Vitoria, we have a endowment for the next year of 1.7 million euros, thus increasing by almost 550.000 euros the endowment regarding this year 2015. As regards road safety - moving to another programme - the Directorate-General for Traffic has a budget of just over €754 million, with an increase of 2.78 %. We especially increase the resources to enhance the traffic monitoring and management systems of the Civil Guard Traffic Group. As for the Secretariat of State for Security, its budget amounts in consolidated terms to just over €7 billion, with an increase of 0.56% compared to 2015, although in terms of comparison - which, as we know, is how it should be - the increase is 3,90 %. We do so from the conviction that investing in security in a democracy, logically, is investing in freedom and guaranteeing the rights of citizens and their well-being. Of the centres under the Secretariat of State for Security, the most important programme is that of citizen security, programme 132, which manages the Secretariat of State for Security, the Directorates-General of the Police and the Civil Guard and the Management of Infrastructure and State Security Equipment. This programme is endowed with € 5.3 billion, with an increase of 0.44% over 2015. As in other Ministry programmes, it highlights the increase in real investments, with an increase of more than 20% compared to 2015, which means more than 20 million euros more in real investments in the field of the Secretariat of State for Security. We have increased investment in infrastructure, particularly investment in the integrated external surveillance system, SIVE, which is so important for combating irregular immigration, for combating drug trafficking and for combating terrorism, as you know. Investment is increased by 30%, distributed by 42% for the fight against irregular immigration, another 42% for the fight against drug trafficking by sea and organised crime, 25% for police equipment and 58% for furniture and supplies. With regard to the operational and operational capacity of the National Police and the Civil Guard, I would like to refer to two issues. One, as I have already said, stabilizes the staff of these State Security Bodies, in addition to nearly 25,000 prison officials. Likewise, the instruments and means of work are increased, the current expenditure chapter of the management centres grows by more than 12.5 million euros in 2016, and in this regard I would like to stress that although it is true that the budgetary resources of the last few years - for reasons we all know - have been smaller, not for that reason - and that is important to highlight - it has diminished the effectiveness and the work carried out by the State Security Forces. There is a data, when we arrived at the government the crime rate in Spain was, according to data from the Eurostat statistical office, 48.4 - i.e. 48.4 criminal offences, crimes and faults, per 1,000 inhabitants - and by June this year we are at 44.3, which places us in the third country of the European Union with the lowest crime rate or, in a positive way, with better security rate. The CIS annual consolidated historical series surveys have also confirmed these objective facts in that, for example, in 2011 the Spanish concern for this issue was 5.6% while in the barometer last June it fell to less than half, to 2.7%. On the other hand, we make a determined bet to strengthen the capabilities of the Counter-Terrorism and Organized Crime Intelligence Centre, merging the existing National Counter-Terrorism Coordination Centre and the Centre for Counter-Organized Crime Intelligence, from the conviction that there is a clear link between terrorism and organized crime, which not a few of its manifestations - such as drug trafficking, or arms trafficking, among others - serve to finance terrorism. We also make a determined bet on resources by the National Center for Critical Infrastructure Protection, known as Cnpic, considering both agencies as basic in safeguarding our freedoms and in a very special way against the new threats arising from international terrorism, from jihadist terrorism. On the other hand, as your ladies and gentlemen know, last February 2 in La Moncloa the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, signed with the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party the agreement to strengthen unity in defence of freedoms and in the fight against terrorism, and within that agreement, in addition to the reform of the Penal Code - which entered into force on July 1st - it also included providing our intelligence community and our counter-terrorism services with greater resources to be more effective and better able to deal with that threat. Royal Decree-Law 6/2015 of 14 May granted the Ministry of the Interior, in the context and in accordance with that signed agreement to which I referred, an extraordinary credit of EUR 10 million to enhance the fight against terrorism. I can assure you that they will be very well used and were very necessary. With regard to the heading for training, there is a very substantial increase, amounting to more than EUR 403 million, with a 163 % increase over the previous budget, that of this year 2015. This will allow us to improve and expand the training plans that are made available to members of the State Security Forces and Bodies. We significantly increase the nominative subsidy in favour of the Spanish Red Cross for the realization of programs of existential character in the CIEs, so that tomorrow I will sign an agreement with the Red Cross for its assistance in the CIEs of Barcelona and Madrid, for the moment, but with this increase of credit for the year 2016 we will be able to extend it to all the CIEs that currently operate in the territory. In this way, the Red Cross will be particularly present in the assistance in all areas that correspond to this so respected and respectable institution to care for immigrants who are there in compliance with the provisions of the law and always, as your lords know, with authorization and judicial supervision. As far as international cooperation is concerned, almost EUR 14 million in credits for international cooperation are maintained between direct police cooperation aid and training aid in the field of cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very important today. When he spoke earlier about cooperation with Morocco, operational cooperation with Senegal and Mauritania, without these programmes we could not do so. In Dakar, in Nuakchot and in Nuadibú we have deployed naval and air units of the Civil Guard and joint investigation teams in the land of Police and Civil Guard that, together with the Senegalese services in Dakar and with the Mauritanians in Nuakchot and in Nuadibú, are securing the borders, avoiding, as I have said, those humanitarian dramas that occur in other areas and at the same time preventing the exit of irregular immigrants and fighting against drug trafficking, which in a very special way, and coming from the Andean area, tries to reach that area mainly with cocaine. All that would not be possible if we did not have these programs and resources. It's okay that when we talk about numbers, we know what's behind it, and that's why I wanted to emphasize it. With regard to the programme of prison centres and institutions, it has a budget of EUR 1,150 million, with a growth of 2.23% over the current financial year. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention - forgive me for the extension, but I have had to expand on the issue of the victims of terrorism, and especially on the issue of asylum and protection of refugees, for obvious reasons, because the issue deserved it - saying that the budget of the Ministry of the Interior for 2016 continues with the policy of cleaning up public accounts, but at the same time incorporates the objective of economic recovery. That is why we can assess - we say from the Ministry of the Interior - very positively the increase indicated at the beginning of 4%, in homogeneous terms, compared to the 2015 budget. Ultimately, the public services that from the Ministry of the Interior - almost 200,000 public servants - provide to all citizens are essential and therefore must be adequately equipped, although from the indispensable solidarity and co-responsibility they must be made compatible with the objectives of fiscal consolidation and economic recovery to which I have referred. I am convinced that whoever manages these budgets next year will be in a position for the Ministry of the Interior to continue to provide the Spanish citizens with a great service, guaranteeing their freedom and their rights, which is the mandate that the Constitution, in article 104, entrusts in a very special way to the bodies that depend on this department. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u22	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Díez has the floor in defence of amendments by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would like to make a brief reference to an aspect that has taken up much of your speech, which has been called the refugee crisis, which is not really such, but rather a democratic crisis. Refugees are the fever, but the disease is the lack of democracy, the lack of freedoms, the violation of human rights, the persecution of minorities in the territories, in the countries from which these refugees come. Therefore, as to a democratic crisis and as to a problem of democracy, it is like all countries - and of course ours - that have to face this situation. He has told us about the problems he had at the meeting a couple of days ago and has stressed that Spain, our Government, is having a constructive and positive attitude. With regard to that attitude which you have described as positive and exemplary for the rest of the countries of the European Union, I would like to ask you, on behalf of my group, a couple of questions, because I do not have time for more. The first of these, which is very important, is whether it plans its ministry to activate the development of the regulations of the Asylum Act of 2009. You know, Minister, that the 2009 law is only partially developed in a very timely way and that the regulation that is in force in Spain in relation to asylum develops a law of the 80 and not the 2009 law. So, do you intend to do that? Will they do so immediately and urgently to respond to this need? Also on this same issue, and apart from what is decided at Community level, my group would like to know whether the Government has already begun the preparations necessary to ensure the integration of refugees and, in addition, family reunification. I do not know whether or not there will be agreement at European level, whether it will be binding or whether we will be awarded fair quotas or zeta, but we are going to host refugees, are we, Minister? Spain will host refugees with the intention of integrating them and seeking family reunification. Since we are going to do so, whether there is agreement at European level or not, have we put the procedures in place? They are not the CIEs that you have cited as one of the examples. The family reunification and the reception of refugees, who come to stay - as everyone knows - and who will have all the rights when they arrive in Spain - I will refer only to Spain - like the rest of the citizens - the same rights, except the right to vote - means that they must be taken care of if they are not to be sent to ghettos or CIEs. This means, for example, educating children, preparing educators and having school materials in their language, i.e. making decisions. Since we're going to welcome them, we're going to have to make decisions. In that regard, I would like to ask you whether the Government is already taking decisions to fulfil its obligation to respond to this democratic emergency. I insist that it is not a humanitarian emergency, but a democratic one. The humanitarian emergency is the consequence, the fever, but the real emergency that the Spanish and all Europeans face is the lack of democracy and respect for human rights in all those countries where refugees come from. I'm going to stick to the rest of the time I have on your ministry budget. Minister, I don't have time to go into all the elaborate details of numbers you've given. I will refer exclusively to your last pronouncement. You have said that it is about ensuring essential public services and that the security and freedom of all Spaniards, which to a large extent also depends on the work of those who are attached to your ministry, are guaranteed. You have said that you must be properly endowed, but the Ministry of the Interior is not adequately endowed. Minister, in the 2012 budget - the first one you did - the allocation was 8,610 million euros and in this budget for 2016 is 8,153; that is, 467 million less. It is not well equipped to meet its demands and responsibilities. Until last year, every time we told them this, they were telling us about the crisis and the economic situation. Today they assume that we have emerged from the crisis and that we are the champions of Europe in growth, but the budget remains ridiculous, inadequate to meet the needs of the service. Secondly, Minister, the adequacy is not only the number, the millions of euros, but also the staffing. You in your speech have - let me say - presumed that places will be called and that the templates will be filled. Let's tell the full truth, minister, because if you don't tell the complete truth, you're lying. There are 3,865 less police officers than in 2011 and they have called - if I don't have the numbers wrong; that I don't have the numbers wrong - 1,300 places. Well, you don't cover the templates, you don't cover the needs. The same goes for the Civil Guard: there are 2,833 fewer troops than when you arrived in the government and 820 seats are called. Do not tell us that you are already covering the templates, that at this time there is a 100 percent replacement, because it is not true, then you are distorting reality to boast of something you are not doing. The staff are not covered, nor are the officers of the Police and the Civil Guard, all those responsible for ensuring our security and our freedom, adequately provided from an economic point of view. Minister, the Civil Guard and the National Police have to speak well, but above all we have to act well, we have to stop messing with them and we have to work to ensure that they have sufficient resources to do their job well, to develop their obligation well and to do their job well, because they continue to work well at the expense of carrying on their backs the lack of coverage of vacancies and the lack of adequate remuneration. Finally, one that is a classic in this rostrum and in this debate: the approval between the Civil Guard, the National Police, the Autonomous Polices and the Municipal Polices. I remember with nostalgia the debates of the past legislature in which the People's Group came out and passed us on the left - let me say the colloquial - to everyone asking for approval and ensuring that, as soon as they arrived, that approval would take place. I remember the Minister of the Interior of the Socialist Government and other socialist leaders explaining to them that it was not possible and to you telling them actively and passively that that would be the first initiative they would take. They don't talk about it anymore, they don't consider it a necessity, they don't consider it a goal, they don't consider it a right. Mr. Minister, less fireworks, less medals, less filling our mouths to speak well of the Civil Guard and the National Police, and more working to ensure that the Civil Guard and the National Police have the tools to do their job well, because these cuts not only have a direct impact on the Civil Guard and the National Police, but also on the prison workers - something you have also spoken of as a fundamental element - who, by the way, are not replenished to one hundred percent of their staff. They replenish this year, but not everything that has been lost in previous years; neither is there a replenishment here. I will tell you more, they also reduce in Prison Institutions the amount of resources allocated to the health care of prisoners. There is a reduction, and as long as the amount of health benefits directed at prisoners is reduced, have you noticed, Minister - I don't know if you have gone unnoticed to the rest of the House - that the budget for worship is increased by one hundred percent, because the budget is increased by one hundred percent, the transfer to the Episcopal Conference to serve the worship of prisoners well?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u24	Mrs. Díez, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u25	Well, yes, it is true that if they are going to die, they will have the right to have a confession, but first we must try to provide them with health care. Thank you, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Parliamentary Group IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you have devoted a large part of your intervention to the issue of asylum and refuge, an issue that is of great concern to Spanish society at the moment because of the current crisis of Syrian refugees in Europe. We believe that a more comprehensive and calm debate on this subject would be necessary. We have asked for your appearance in the Committee on the Interior and we invite you to have this appearance in the coming days, since the legislature seems to be going on for a few more weeks and since there are important meetings in Europe on what the future is going to be in the face of this important crisis. We would like to settle some of the previous issues. It is true that there has been a change in the Government's position on quota policy, an issue that was highly pre-emptive by its ministry a few weeks ago and that appears to have changed. First of all, we must thank the work, the pressure put on many NGOs and also the parliamentary groups in this House to change the position of the Government of Spain on the question of quotas, which is very important. It is an issue that is not yet closed, which has yet to be closed in Europe, which is fundamental. But we have not heard him say anything about another issue that NGOs are calling for, such as the establishment of safe corridors, safe routes for the movement of refugees. That is why I say to you that it is important to have a specific and calm debate and appearance, and not only from your department but also from other departments of this Government that are going to be affected by this issue. We would like to see that, beyond the Syrian crisis and the refugees who are now cornered against certain wires that are inexplicably being drawn at the borders of the European Union, it should not be forgotten that there are other forgotten conflicts in sub-Saharan Africa, which are continuously generating - and will continue to generate - refugees. That is why we are calling for a different asylum policy from that which you have carried out and which you shared with the Socialist Group when it ruled at another time. We understand that the asylum policy traditionally carried out by Spain has been scarred, short, weak, inadequate to the role that Spain has to play in the international political context. It is necessary to regulate the usual channels in order to be able not only to have an asylum policy as it stands, appropriate to the law that has been passed and has not been developed, but also to meet the needs of all those economic immigrants to whom we also have to give a way, Minister. We can't say: white cows, yes; black cows, no. Everyone has the right to be able to move around in this world that opens its borders to capitals but does not open them to people. He spoke about the success of Spanish policy in this regard in Senegal, Mauritania and Morocco. Praise for certain successes cannot hide that these successes are being made on the blows that are being made on the backs of immigrants in Moroccan territory. [[Applauds]] That is the real problem, Minister. That's right. We must work with the countries in our environment, we must work with the countries with which we must maintain a good relationship, but Morocco - and you know it - does not have the human rights guarantees that we have in other countries of the European Union, and that lack of guarantees is mistreating the backs of immigrants who cannot hold onto the posts on the Spanish border, the asylum posts that you have said are so magnificently serving. No sub-Saharan immigrant can join the asylum offices located at the borders of Melilla because they are not left by the Moroccan security forces, even many Syrians also have the problem and the mistrust to approach; that is so, Minister and you know it. We cannot outsource our asylum policy, our immigration policy to countries where there are no human rights guarantees. I would not like to miss the opportunity to stress that we continue with the tragedy of the hot returns, with a policy that we do not share, and yet we are aware that we must work and participate all the political groups in this House by continuing to change the position of this Government on the issue of asylum so that Spain can play its part in the international political context, especially because, beyond the short-term emergency measures that are now being taken in the face of this crisis, and which can very well be resolved by now budgeting money in the general budgets of the State and calling for the cooperation of NGOs, this is going to be a medium- and long-term issue. Thousands of people will come, thousands of people will have to come, and it is necessary to commit political forces, we agree, but it is also necessary that the Government involve autonomous communities, NGOs and municipalities in a response that Spanish society is demanding and that is urgent. With regard to the general state budgets that are being debated on this issue - and I say to you that we would like to have a specific debate on the question of asylum, refuge and immigration - we must tell you that, as it cannot be otherwise, we do not share the budgets that the People's Party Government is proposing because we do not share - you know, we have discussed it several times in this House - the model of security, the model of forces and state security bodies that share the majority groups of the House, which we have distinguished ourselves from. And I'm going to give you an example that jumped into the press these days, just yesterday. You from this rostrum have many times praised the competitiveness between the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard, and yesterday you jumped into the media an example - it will be true or not, you dismiss it - an example of how that competitiveness does not help to solve police problems but quite the contrary, you have delayed - at least so the media said, if not, you - the solution of the case of the American pilgrim, the U.S. subject Denise Pikka Thiem, who months ago the Civil Guard could have solved and yet was delayed for another reason. You will say what you think, Minister, but that is what the associations of the Civil Guard have said, that is what has been said in certain areas, and it is a sign of a model of competitiveness between the State Security Forces and Corpses which, of course, my parliamentary group does not share and that is why it would be sufficient to reject these internal budgets; budgets which - also Mrs Díez said in her speech - perpetuate an inequality in remuneration, an inequality in the means, an inequality in the money which, in short, is devoted to the National Police Corps and to the Civil Guard which my parliamentary group does not share and which we cannot assume, which leads us directly to this rejection, to this amendment of all that we have tabled to the section of the Internal Affairs. In the short time I have left, I would like to give you a very concrete example, which is the subject of training, and to invite this Government, if not this Government, because it will no longer have time to develop it, if future governments think that certain issues, such as training, which continues to be differentiated between the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard, are moving towards a process of unification, simply to rationalize resources and improve them. I would not like to pass on my speech without referring to two or three issues. First of all, traffic. Beyond the policy that DGT has to do in its department - and the roads affect not only Fomento, but other administrations, such as Industry - we are experiencing a change in the trend regarding accidentality and sinestrality in Spain. That policy needs to be changed and these budgets do not. I would also like to make a small reference to a report by the Court of Auditors on the operation of its department in the management of dossiers, grants and so on, which set out the points on the issues in the management of certain dossiers in its department, in the management of certain items, specifically those relating to natural disasters. For our part, we have argued quite clearly in the amendment as to why we want these budgets to be returned to the Government and not to go forward. In addition, we have tabled some partial amendments, both in the area of religious care in prisons, as well as in reserved expenses, protection and international asylum, and we continue to call for the closure of detention centres for foreigners. I just finish by referring to the triumphal form in which you have said that 100 percent of the National Police, Civil Guard and Prisons Corps staff will be renewed or maintained. Coming now saying that the templates will be maintained, when for years they have been systematically and specifically cut in Prisons institutions a situation is being experienced in some absolutely unsustainable centers, is not at all sufficient. The increase in staffing has to overcome the cuts that have occurred in these years and, of course, with this proposal for 2016 is absolutely insufficient. That is why we are voting against this section and calling for its return to the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. Mr Guillaumes has the floor for the Convergence I d'Unió Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u29	Thank you very much, President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, many things in this budget do not seem wrong to us. In fact, we have tabled relatively few amendments, and almost all of them refer to local issues. The problem of our group with this budget is not so much what it contains, but because of the comparative aggravation it represents. Of course, we do not have this style and we are not going to introduce petty amendments simply because of a feeling of comparative aggravation. The thing is, the subject is pretty bloody and I'm going to desilvanize it throughout my intervention. First of all, Civil Protection. At the very least, the increase of 26 % intended entirely for central services is worrying. Let us remember that a bill was introduced, that we voted in favour of this House and abstained in the Senate, in exchange for the abolition of ex-ante control of civil protection plans, and that two clauses were put in place that said that there would be no harm to the powers of the autonomous communities. But that means that by law they are not obliged to re-centralise, but they can effectively re-centralise, and this increase of 26% for central services honestly does not bode well. I'll leave it here, but it doesn't bode well. Presumably from the heading for reception, which has increased by 115 %. The truth is that before it was unreal, so welcome is this increase, but this money will improve the internal structures of the reception, which I am sure is very good, but it will recognise me, Minister, that the problem at this time we have before, that people are playing their necks before, and here we do not see a clear and determined policy in this regard. The Spanish state does not have an island of Lampedusa, and it does not have it because unfortunately many people drown before it, and I suppose we are aware of it. And we are not talking about economic emigration, with the respect it deserves us, but about people who are fleeing the murder, people who are fleeing the rape, people who in Europe, the homeland of democracy, would have to find acceptance. We congratulate them because 100 per cent of the replacement rate of the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard will be covered, but do you know what the replacement rate of the mossos in Catalonia is? 0%. You know why? Not because we cannot legally do the same as you, but because if you impose a deficit limit on us three times as much as the one you give yourself the comparison is bloody, and at a time of security crisis such as that in Europe you will understand that this is particularly painful. We have had to apply the replacement rate for obvious reasons to firefighters, and I would not think of amending one hundred percent of the CNP and the Civil Guard, but you will understand that it is especially painful for us when their cut-off policy forces us not to be able to do the same. Especially bloody is also - you have not referred to it, which has surprised me - the implementation of the so-called Police 3.0, and more specifically what they call intelligent patrolling. This will be to be able to access police databases, including video, from any police vehicle. Congratulations! It seems very good to us, but these databases have no access to the autonomous police. He will tell us that there is a coordination room where a mosso d'Esquadra in full operation can call and another mosso d'Esquadra will speak with a civilian guard who is in front of a computer, which contains the databases, and will eventually answer the question that the operative asks him. As you know, with any normal operation the time that can pass is unacceptable, and if we talk about a critical operation it can be the difference between life and death. We congratulate you on your patrol 3.0; we would already like to have it. And I repeat that, as he often rightly says, in times of special security doing so seems to us to be especially unresponsible. I would like to refer to the items intended for what have historically been called reserved funds. They have to exist, Minister. A police officer in his work has to work with undercovers and confidants, and obviously - I always set the same example - police confidants usually don't discharge themselves into self-employed people or pass VAT bills, so these funds have to exist. Now, a disturbing information came out in some media about the hiring by you of a computer hacking company - by the National Police Corps -, active hacking we would have to say. Let us hope that the information is not true, because this would be a spurious use of these funds, which I repeat that on the other hand we understand. There is no forecast for the external vote. We are not fooled, because external voting is basically a matter of legislative change, changing the requested vote, but everything would help. I shall end with this challenge, Minister, a proof of the usefulness of the current system: let all Catalans and Catalans living abroad - about 200,000 - who want to vote on 27 September, which does not go from the old 30% to 3%, in which we are in the last elections. A great deal of effort must be made, but this would undoubtedly represent a test of very good will on the part of his ministry. Thank you very much, Minister; thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u30	Thank you, Mr. Guillaumes. Mr Trevín has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of the Interior has presented us with his fifth budgets, despite being part of a government elected for four years. This is the first of the characteristics of these accounts: a dubious democratic legitimacy. The Government of the People's Party continues to confuse the party with the Government, that is, by putting State institutions at the exclusive service of its party interests. Don't process these budgets to govern Spain, do it to give the exit gun to your own electoral caravan. A second analysis reveals a decrease in resources in public security, a marked decrease in the staffing of the Civil Guard, the National Police Corps and Prison Institutions. It also reveals the consequences of markedly conservative legislative reforms and without any vocation for participation or agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, this minister has cut public security by 451 million in four years. To all Spanish citizens? No, at least not that of a small Navarra town, Fitero; he took advantage of these years to become a Civil Guard headquarters in the village where he summer. If the president gets to put you in Fomento, you make an airport. But let's go back to the harsh reality. The decline is alarming, but more serious is that it affects the programme on police action in the field of drugs, which has declined every year in which you have been a minister. While traffickers are equipped with better means and resources, our guards and police officers are obsolete. As a result, today in our country, a paradise is being created for drug traffickers similar to that of the Galician ries in the 1980s. On the Gaditan coast and on the Guadarranque river the narcos move with incredible ease and boldness. There is parallelism even in the characters, to the northern lord of the planners Sito Minanco replaced the southern Messi, today fortunately in prison, but with numerous advanced students in full activity. Yesterday's Vilagaría de Arousa and Cambados are Chiclana, Sanlúcar, Los Barrios or La Línea. In both territories, citizens were organized in anti-drug associations, knowing in their own flesh the high price to pay for the growth of this criminal activity. Another resemblance, Minister, which should have served you to deal with this problem decisively and in its entirety, something much more complex than putting barriers in a river. On 19 April this year, ladies and gentlemen, the Diario de Cádiz warned that an idyllic urbanization of the Guadarranque River, Los Barrios, was being used by speedboats to make between two and three trips a day with hashish. There is a widely distributed video on YouTube where six boats are seen sailing at once and carrying more than one ton of cargo each. On June 19, at six o'clock in the afternoon, with the beach of La Línea full of bathers, the drug traffickers landed there a hashish cache, and on August 3 they repeated it in full daylight on the beach of El Tonelero. Do you dare, Minister, to continue talking about substantial improvement in citizen security under your mandate? The situation is no worse thanks to the great professionalism of our guards and police officers, and the citizens know it, which is why the Benemerit Corps of the Civil Guard and the National Police remain among the most valued institutions of the Spanish. The problem is that you don't give them the resources to be more effective. This is also known to our citizens, Mr Fernández Díez. That is why they value you as the worst minister of the interior of democracy. With you the Spaniards are only very sure that every time you open your mouth the bread goes up. He gets into all the puddles and disqualifies everyone who doesn't think like you. When he speaks he has rope for a while; what we could never imagine was that he was going to give Mouse so much rope. Neither the budgetary resources nor the appropriate staffing levels, and their current situation, are of concern. There are now a total of 10,764 vacancies in the National Police Corps'personnel catalogue; in the Civil Guard's, 9,030, and in prison institutions over 1,400 personnel have been lost in these four years. If it were not obvious at this stage, I must point out that these are the reasons why my group is presenting this amendment in its entirety in this section, in addition to a very large number of partial amendments. We want them to correct their tendency to mislead priorities, Minister. With you, less purchasing capacity for guards and police, but more retired decorations for personal and political trusted collaborators carrying out delicate missions. Under his ministry, fewer resources for security, but more repression for members of Civil Guard associations and cessations for police commissioners for drinking coffee with an opposition deputy. [[Protests]] Under his mandate, the withdrawal of public security in Spain and a marked increase in business expectations for private security, leaving the escorts of the victims to be pulled and threatened in the harsh years of terrorism in Euskadi. [[Applauds.-Protests]] With you, the DGT examiners on strike and halt the decrease of deaths in traffic accidents. [[Rumors]] With you, the counting system has fallen for the first time into democracy in elections. [[Mr Pezzi Cereto: The minister is not listening!-Protests]] Nor is it given to the Minister, even if he does not listen to me, to carry out profound legislative reforms loaded with ultra-conservative ideology. [[Protests.-Applause.]] The first, a private security law that opens the doors for a citizen to be identified, registered and searched by a vigilante. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u32	Mr. Trevín, just a moment. Banked by the Socialist Group, please allow Mr Trevín, who is precisely from his own group, to speak. [[Several Members: What about the minister?]] Mr. Trevín, continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u33	Thank you, Madam President. I am sorry to have made the minister so nervous, but logically our opposition work requires control of the government. I'm sure you'll understand. [[Mrs. Grande Pesquero: Should we spread slogans?]] He said that the first was a private security law that opens the door for a citizen to be identified, registered and screened by a security guard in a public space, and that significantly increases market niches to companies in the sector, without special requirements regarding the training and quality of their employment. Return to the Ansuategui doctrine: whoever wants security to pay for it. It was not enough for him that in the year 2012 in Madrid Mrs Cifuentes multiplied the fines by nine for hypothetically violating the right of assembly or demonstration, and by eleven its amounts compared to those of the previous year, or that many trade unionists had been imposed harsh prison sentences during his term of office. [[Mrs. Grande Pesquero: You don't care]] You displayed a hard hand; you came back to an old popular slogan: the street is mine, and you imposed a law for citizen security that was rightly baptized as a law of citizen repression, and you did so with the sole support of your party. It also failed to endorse the most important associations of the Civil Guard and the unions with more membership in the Police for their personnel laws. You are allergic to consensus and participation. Until you came to office the Minister of the Interior worked to protect all Spaniards, but now many Spaniards have to strive to protect themselves from the Minister of the Interior. [[Laughs.-Applause.-Protests.]] I cannot finish without referring to the asylum and stateless rights programme. As far as asylum is concerned, its budget suffers from what we have denounced in previous years: a lack of interest in asylum and the absence, so far, of a determined policy to guarantee the obligatory international protection. Let's not be fooled: the budget for 2016 is the same as this year. The €3 million increase is specifically intended to finance the Government's commitment to the European Union: the €1,300 that, after a fight, they assumed to welcome, but that agreement is more than outdated.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u34	Mr. Trevín, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u35	I'm done right now, Madam President. Thank you. The new reality will require a considerable increase so that the tasks which the Minister of the Interior will have to carry out effectively in the relocation of the new agreed quota and the updating of the backlog can be carried out. It has to correct this situation, just as it must amend the eloquence, to what Donald Trump, who has been applying in this regard: from warning us of the dangers of the so-called effect and the possibility of infiltration of jihadist terrorism to wondering who was willing to welcome them into their homes. Did you find enough of the answer that Spanish citizenship is giving you these days? It's over, Minister. Because of his interview with Rat we knew that he had an official agenda and a hidden agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u36	Mr. Trevín, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u37	I'm done right now, Madam President. We also know that it has a head shrine for exhibiting it profusely. What we were not aware of was that he had also hidden another shrine: for the Catalans, Santiago and closes Spain; for the women and homosexuals, Saint John of the Coz; for the demonstrators, Saint Martin of Porras. In addition, you have been a true Saint Benedict for the State Security Forces. Fortunately in democracy we know that citizens have the last word and that people like you always get their St. Martin's. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause.- Various Members: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u38	Thank you, Mr Trevín. The Group of the European People's Party, Mr Márquez, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u39	Thank you, Madam President. It is hard to believe that I applaud a speech as personalized and cruel as Mr Trevín's and with so little argument. [[Applause.-Laughter.-Various Members: Ah!]] It's hard to believe. In any case, it is the tone that you have wanted to give to a debate that should be budgetary, but that Mr Trevín has transformed into a debate about his paranoid obsessions, obsessions that do not let him rest much less. [[Applauds]] First of all, I would like to rebut the speech that this is an electoral budget. It is a budget that strictly abides by the law, responsible because it fulfils the obligations of a government that is, and that is undoubtedly a commitment to the voters, who will already know what a new government of the People's Party could do if the voters again put their trust in us. It is not a demagogic budget, it is not a letter to the wise kings, like the amendments, Mr Trevín, which you have tabled, which really do not respond to any reality beyond a desire impossible to fulfil. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Let me therefore move from demagogy, manipulation, obsessions, falsehoods to reality and the reality of budgets. Nothing good is in them according to you. How do you explain then that Spain is the third safest country in all of Europe, and you are criticizing it in such a fierce way? The budgets of Spain and also those of the Interior are the budgets of stability, trust and recovery. Thanks to the fact that Spain is a safe country our economy is one of the engines of Europe today. Thanks to the fact that Spain is a safe and serious country, with a reliable government, with a Ministry of the Interior that meets what is budgeted, our exports increase and our entrepreneurs create jobs. Our security is recognized in Europe and in the world, no matter how much it weighs them. The professionalism and commitment of our security forces and bodies are appreciated by the Spaniards, as the minister and also Mr Trevín have recalled, and I find it difficult for me not to recognize also that this professionalism will have something to do with the right direction. Our police model works and works to full satisfaction. The People's Party Government will invest this budget so that rights and freedoms are protected, and I can assure you that they will be well-used resources. Why am I saying this? First of all, because 98% of the budget - the figures - is implemented, which they cannot presume from their time of government. That is a difference between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. You were budgeted on a beard and your budgets were not met or paid. The minister has remembered this and it is something that we are fully proud of. There are no more debts in the Ministry of the Interior. Until last year, we were paying off that debt that burdened the budget, and from our responsibility the budget is managed and, above all, fulfilled. I want to highlight the offer of public employment. The replacement rate is extended to 100 per cent. I have heard a speech by some spokesman, such as Mrs Díez, who I believe has made last year's budget speech and not that of this one. One hundred percent replacement rate. This means that at least the current public employment offer figures for replacement in the Civil Guard and the National Police will be doubled. I do not know if I will have time, but I would like to mention one of those obsessions and - I would say - petty things that Mr Trevín has dared to say in this rostrum. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Meeknesses, yes, meeknesses: that famous allusion to the meeting of commissioners with his lordship drinking coffee, which undoubtedly occurred, and which then caused the loss of confidence in those police positions. I would like to ask you whether it is not true that the Socialist Party telephoned the Ministry of the Interior threatening, and I say threatening, that if those police charges were dismissed they would be informed in the Ministry of the Interior, because the war was opening. [[Applauds.-Protests.-A honourable Member: What are you talking about?]] Can you deny this I'm saying, Mr. Trevín? We are reaching that level as regards relations with the Socialist Party. However, that level which you hold does not prevent the Ministry of the Interior from continuing to fulfil its obligations rigorously and effectively. The Civil Guard Staff Law will come into force, more training, more operationality, investments increase by 28% in the Civil Guard and the National Police by 54%. I cannot fail to mention some amendments - which we are here for, to defend our amendments and dismantle theirs -. The minister has devoted an abundant amount of time to a subject that is tremendously topical. We extend the allocation for asylum and shelter policies by more than EUR 200 million. Irregular immigration is an inevitable reality. You should start to distinguish, also The Plural Left, between economic immigration and that immigration that is caused by the need for asylum and refuge, because it is fundamental, because Spain - as has been said earlier and it is necessary to recognise it - is a benchmark right now in Europe, because we have managed to manage. You did it, starting with your Government, and this Government has managed it a posteriori. We have managed irregular immigration flows from West Africa, through cooperation with countries of origin and transit, also through strengthening police cooperation between the two States, and that is not something that can be blamed on us. [[The Lord]] I have heard here references to police officers from other States. We are debating the budget of the Ministry of the Interior of the Kingdom of Spain, and the State Security Forces and Bodies always act in accordance with the law. It is not true, Mr Sixto, that the asylum and shelter offices that opened last year at the border of Ceuta and Melilla serve no purpose. On the contrary, the figures are there to show how, at least Melilla's office, is experiencing very large increases in the number of people who come to access it. You have an important confusion between immigration for economic reasons and that which is motivated by the need for asylum and refuge. Spain has always been and continues to be in solidarity, and it is demonstrating this in the last JHA Councils of Ministers, where we are certainly not the obstacle to finding a common position. The development of the regulations of the Asylum Act has been discussed. We should perhaps wait until the debate that is taking place at European level can lead to the harmonisation of a common European policy. A working group has been set up to bring together efforts in this area, so that we do not act in such an important policy as this without coordinating efforts, and without having sufficient rigour and effectiveness in an issue that is not going to be a week or a few months, but is going to occupy us in the coming decades. I've got to wrap this up now. After years of intense adjustment, but essential adjustment, we present budgets that consolidate a change in trend, which are no longer limited to the maintenance of necessary resources, which also show significant increases in items that will guarantee the security of the Spaniards. If we are able to do so with fewer resources and at times of adjustment more necessary, please believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that police efficiency will increase at a time when economic recovery will increase resources for this purpose. We are going to reject, as demagogic, as impossible, as unrealistic and even as petty, all the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group; as repetitive as those tabled by the Compromises and as impossible as those tabled by the Progressive Union and Democracy, and of course we are going to support the two amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Marquez. Discussion of section 26, Health, Social Services and Equality. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor, the name of the Government, the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to present the section for the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality next year, a very important year to consolidate the recovery of credibility and confidence that has been achieved throughout the legislature, and to strengthen growth and job creation, which is the basis for us to further improve basic services and to further strengthen support... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u42	Excuse me, Minister. Please, I ask those who wish to leave the plenary to do so immediately and in silence. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Spain is actually growing at a rate of more than 3% and around one million jobs will have been created between this year and the past. This fact, coupled with the reduction in the financial burden of public debt and the lower need for unemployment expenditure, has led to an increase in social expenditure - excluding unemployment - of 3,8 %. Budgets in which almost 54 out of 100 euros are allocated to social policies; 39 out of 100 to pensions; 7 to the payment of different unemployment benefits; and another 8 out of 100 euros are allocated to other social expenditure. In addition, the budgets allocate an additional EUR 17 of these 100 to contributions to the Autonomous Communities, which are mainly devoted to the financing of health, education and social services provided by these administrations. This is therefore social protection, because there are no more social budgets than those that invest in employment, strengthen basic services and protect families that do not yet notice recovery. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government's social commitment is reflected in the budget of this ministry, which is growing next year by 5.3% to reach EUR 2,021 million. Of these, 80% make up the Social Services and Equality budget, which has increased by more than 6% over 2015. This ensures the various specific support measures and programmes that we have developed since the beginning of this legislature, with a view to those at risk of exclusion: families, minors, women - especially those who are victims of abuse -, older persons, those who have some kind of disability, those who are in a situation of dependency, and young people, especially those who have not obtained a job. The idea is that no one can and does not have to stay behind at this new stage of growth and employment, and that is the goal pursued by the Government. One of the main priorities of the ministry is therefore families and children. This year we have a budget of more than EUR 193 million, which represents an increase of more than 10% over last year. If we add this increase from this year to the increase of more than 20% in the 2015 budget, we are talking about an increase of around 35% in the 2015-2016 budget in this area. We prioritize family policy, we prioritize policies to support children and we do so by raising allocations in this area, once the economic situation also allows it. This is a line that we must consolidate for the future if we are to consider that those most affected by the economic crisis have surely been the families with children in our country. For this reason, the specific fund for these families with children who are in difficult situations is extended to EUR 48 million. It is 50% more than in the current year. Our goal is to make it more effective and to reach local entities through the autonomous communities. This support is reinforced by other appropriations under other headings, such as grants from the IRPF, which provide for a Section 26, Health, Social Services and Equality EUR 100 million for this objective. In total, at this year's call we will distribute 220 million euros, which means an increase of 650,000 over last year. It also highlights the food aid that has a budget of 662 million euros until 2020 and which also includes social support measures that are incorporated into the budget of our ministry this year. Secondly, I would like to highlight some of the actions of another of the major budgetary priorities, namely the care of the elderly and the care of those in dependency. 62% of the ministry's total budget is intended to consolidate the Unit Act, which means an increase in the weight of this priority by 5.9 points more than in the previous legislature. In particular, we will allocate EUR 1,252 million, 6.4% more than in 2015. Together with the transfers of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security we have reached a budget of 3,909 million euros, an additional 123.5, which means that the budget of the Imserso for this year 2016 also grows by 3,26 %. The budgets therefore consolidate the priority of care for the unit and guarantee without any exclusion the subjective right of persons assessed as dependent to receive a benefit. I would like to remind you that we have completed the timetable for the implementation of the law with the incorporation of the 300,000 moderate dependents last July, whose level of coverage already reaches 14% and which will be progressively incorporated by the autonomous communities, I hope as quickly as possible. As you know, credit has been extended every year to meet the State's obligations in this area, and this year too will be the year of the extension of credit in the coming weeks. From there, at the end of this term, it is appropriate to make a thorough assessment of the evolution of the law, which has meant its implementation and to open a debate that will allow us to strengthen it in the future. In addition, the budget allocated to social tourism and thermalism programmes, which promote active ageing, is growing. These are programmes which, as your ladies and gentlemen know, give rise to nearly 11 million hotel stays, generate 447 million euros and maintain more than 100,000 jobs in the sector. On this occasion, the programmes will grow to a budget of 105 million euros and also increase the number of places, which in the case of social tourism will increase from 938,000 to more than one million and in the case of thermalism will reach 210,000. The network of reference centers of the Imserso will increase significantly, it will almost double by the year 2016 with the incorporation of the Center of State Reference for Persons with Severe Neurological Disabilities Stephen Hawking of Langreo. I want to say that there is a departure to finish the works, for operating expenses, to ensure their start-up - it is an important commitment - and for the final launch this year of the reference centers of Valencia, for the psychosocial care of people with serious mental disorder; of Soria, for the socio-health care of people in a situation of dependence; and of León, for the care of people in a situation of dependence. [[Applauds]] In total, the network of Imserso dependency centres will move from the current five centres to nine reference centres in different autonomous communities over the course of this year and next. In addition, the resource centre for the promotion of personal autonomy in Melilla is scheduled to be opened, which also has its corresponding budget allocation. I want to say that the appropriations allocated to both Melilla and Ceuta by the Imserso also have an increase of 3.37% this year. Another priority of the next year's accounts is to continue investing to achieve or bring us closer to real equality between men and women, with particular emphasis on combating gender-based violence. The budget is growing by 6.32% this year, to EUR 25.23 million in the case of the Government Delegation for Gender Violence, and over the last two years we will have increased by more than 13%. Priority: comprehensive assistance to women victims and their children. The game, the money that grows the most is for social assistance programs of the autonomous communities and for the implementation of personalized plans. For the same purpose, the allocation for social assistance, which women receive under article 27 of the Integral Act, is increased by more than 70 per cent. Similarly, we are consolidating prevention and social awareness measures, which produce effective results. They know that the fundamental increase in this game for awareness campaigns took place in the same year 2015 - they have risen by 225 % - and next year it is planned to maintain that effort, which is important and has an impact on the awareness of Spanish society. In addition, progress is planned in other actions such as the promotion of women's employment and the reduction of the wage gap, or in measures to make progress on reconciliation and co-responsibility. These are the main axes of the work of the Institute for Women and Equal Opportunities, which next year will have a budget of EUR 19.7 million. In the case of persons with disabilities, which is the other priority chapter of the ministry, first of all, I would like to highlight the efforts being made to maintain the activity of the social entities of the third sector, at the state level, which have been threatened this year, amounting to EUR 4.1 million through the nominal subsidies provided for in the State General Budgets. We are committed to maintaining and strengthening the third sector, to keeping them out of the way and to strengthening what is a basic protection network for all Spanish citizens, which guarantees cohesion in our country. In the area of youth, we have a budget of EUR 29 million, which we basically aim to promote youth employment. There is an important programme, which this year also has a budget increase which is to be highlighted: Erasmus Youth. With regard to the fight against drug dependence and other addictions, we have a credit in the Government Delegation for the National Drug Plan, which increases slightly to around EUR 15 million, allowing us to consolidate the programmes deriving from the provisions of the regulation of the Fund for property confiscated by illicit drug trafficking. They are expandable appropriations that are doubling the initial budget each year. This year has doubled and the final amount we have set aside has been EUR 28.6 million. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of health and consumption, the Ministry's aim is to ensure that the National Health System is cohesive and remains an example of equity, quality and sustainability. In 2015, the Ministry of Health has a budget of €370 million for our major priorities: digital health, improved care, efficiency and support for professionals, as well as consumer protection and food security. On this basis we advance in the greatest challenge of the future, which is personalized medicine and social health care for which we have been demanding a great political and social pact for a long time, and working to lay the foundations that make it possible; a pact that we have already signed with healthcare professionals. I want to say that professionals are the pillar of the National Health System and, therefore, in 2016 there are some priorities such as improving the specialized training system, but also speeding up recognition and accreditation procedures. We are culminating - it is very close to its completion - the regulation of the use and indication of medicines by the nursing profession and the entry into operation of the state registry of health professionals. Other challenges that have to culminate over the coming months are the development of truncality and the equivalence of categories. The budget we allocate to public health amounts to 38 million euros. We focus on actions for the prevention of HIV infection and the implementation of the various strategies being implemented by the ministry. Next year we foresee a major advance in the strategy for addressing chronicity with projects such as population stratification and chronic disease management. It will also involve an evaluation and updating of other strategies such as mental health, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, stroke, diabetes, musculoskeletal diseases, palliative care and ischemic heart disease, as well as the implementation of the new patient safety strategy, which has already been approved by the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. We also continue with the effort in the provision for digital health, mainly for the extension of the electronic prescription and digital clinical history and, above all, for its interconnection. Interconnection has already begun, but it has to be extended significantly throughout the next exercise. I would like to remind you that the budgets have a specific item - I always think it is important to say this - for the strategy of rare diseases, rare diseases and support for their families. Next year, the Rare Disease Registry has to be fully operational. [[Applauds]] As a novelty this year, there is a party that has been incorporated and is called the resettlement and relocation of refugees from the point of view of health. There has been a significant increase in credit in the Ministry of Employment, but there is also an open allocation in the Ministry of Health, where we also want to help meet the demand and humanitarian crisis that has affected the whole of the European Union and in which Spain also wants to assume its responsibility. In the portfolio area I want to say that the Strategic Plan for Hepatitis C, which is going to be at a good pace, will also require an update in the coming months. Innovations are taking place dynamically with the emergence of new medicines and this will allow us to accelerate and continue to prioritize access to more patients. They know that we currently have a provision for 52,000 people. More than half of these 52,000 people have already received their treatment and therefore an effective response is being given, but this plan can still be further updated with the incorporation of new drugs. In order to make it possible for innovations to arrive, solutions and alternatives are given to diseases that previously did not have them and, therefore, we can improve the effective protection we do of health, we must continue to act on the price system and centralised purchases, which in this legislature have resulted in savings of EUR 5 billion. That is, being effective, being efficient, being sustainable is what allows us to then face challenges such as hepatitis C. For its part, the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products has a budget of 47 million euros. I must say that this agency has this budget but generates €70 million for the Treasury, which derive from the competitive management it carries out with other European agencies. It is an agency that enters more than it spends and that will also continue to make progress in ensuring accessibility to medicines, the correct supply and the fight against counterfeiting; the agency is a model at European level of good management and safety for all specific citizens and will continue with its plans. There is a very important plan, the National Antibiotic Resistance Plan, involving autonomous communities and scientific societies. This year we will continue to develop these specific strategies that will prevent us all. The Spanish Agency for Consumption, Food Security and Nutrition has a budget of 29 million euros. An important part, over 13 million, is devoted to protecting consumers and users, promoting associationism, specialized training and supporting the arbitration system; and the other part is devoted to food and nutrition security, mainly for the development of the NAOS strategy, for the prevention of obesity, and for the investment effort in food safety laboratories. Ingesa's budget also increases by more than 3%. In the case of health infrastructure in Ceuta and Melilla, investments will grow above 9 %. We also plan to have this year's budget in Ceuta and Melilla to increase the recruitment of staff in both specialized and primary care and, to increase the resolution capacity for the movement of patients to the peninsula. I would also like to quote the National Transplant Organization, which is also going to see its budget increase this year. It continues to record world records, and this year we have already met our goal of bone marrow donation, as we were looking for 170,000 donors. With the effort that has been made in this legislature we are improving budgets year after year; last year and this year in a very important way in the area of health, social services and equality policies. Budgets are important because they will consolidate this new stage of economic growth, job creation and strengthening of welfare services and the Government's ability to commit to the situation of families. More social spending to further reduce the levels of inequality and the risk of exclusion that exists in our country. In addition, increased attention to dependence and chronicity in order to cope with the increase in life expectancy, i.e. with quality and guarantees in the context of active ageing. There is more budget to further improve the National Health System and to make it possible to consolidate and strengthen policies for real equality between men and women and the eradication of gender-based violence. These are budgets that are built to ensure the credibility, strength of our country, stability and quality of public services, as well as the well-being of all Spaniards. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. In order to defend the amendments, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor first for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. I will refer in this speech to the format of the debate on the chapter on health, social services and equality, and finally and in a shorter way the chapter on education. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has presented us with the 2016 budgets as those of consolidation of recovery. For us and for the vast social majority they start from a fallacy, since there has been no recovery in 2015 nor, of course, there will be consolidation in 2016. The headings devoted to the social chapters of the budgets clearly show this: an insufficient 0.4 % increase for social expenditure as a whole, which translates into slightly larger increases in specific social items but which do not represent a small part of the brutal cuts that have taken place in recent years. Because, Minister, what does the recovery of 3.6% in health mean after the 35 % cut in 2014 alone? What does the recovery of €75 million in dependency mean, compared to 2015, when only in 2012 the scandalous amount of almost 30% was cut when the co-payments were increased and more than 160,000 people remain on waiting lists, or more than 100,000 dependents have died since 2012 without receiving help despite having been recognized? According to the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, with the increase of 75 million in 2016 it would take 25 years to attend to all dependents, since the promotion does not serve to compensate for the tijeretazo suffered in recent years. Or what does the recovery of 6% of funds to combat gender-based violence mean, if, in addition to equal opportunities, they are still in the light of €30 million in 2011? The consequences of this disastrous policy of inequality are seen every day and sufficiently well-endowed departures are needed to deal with them, and that is not the case. In short, for 2016 his ministry envisages the amount of 2,021 million euros, a lesser amount than in previous years, with the exception of 2015. In addition, these are areas that fall mainly within the autonomous communities, to which the austereicide to which the Government has subjected them in these years has eliminated their ability to carry out actions in favour of the social majorities of their respective territories, and to meet the most basic demands of their citizens. Our amendments are just in the direction of increasing social spending. We propose the deletion of the fifty-eighth additional provision because its implementation means delaying the effective implementation of improvements in the dependency care system, which is also unjustifiable for addressing a group that has suffered impressive cuts by this Government. In the face of the serious crisis we are experiencing, which is leading to an increase of almost 40% in the number of social service users, we propose an increase of EUR 40 million in the share of the Concerted Plan, which, if it continues to fall, will only deepen the reduction of local programmes such as home help or prevention and reintegration programmes. In addition, an increase of EUR 150 million is needed for the Autonomous Communities for the care of dependent persons and thus avoid the definitive collapse of the system and also increases of EUR 3 million, ladies and gentlemen, for social assistance programmes for women victims of gender-based violence, in order to develop awareness-raising and training campaigns in the educational and health fields, as well as the increase of EUR 3 million in programmes for the care, prevention and protection of women in situations of gender-based violence in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities and municipalities. I finish this section, ladies and gentlemen. The Government and its anti-social policies have reduced what was known as the welfare state; they have reduced it to a minimum. The budgets presented to us for 2016 do not solve this situation by far and, therefore, the recovery and consolidation of that recovery is simply, as said at the beginning, a huge fallacy. I now turn briefly, Mr President, to section 18 on education which has been discussed this morning. The Government's educational policy has followed the same, if not worse, path as health and social services and equality, although it is obvious that the golden retreat award given to former Minister Wert shows that they intend to follow the same path, and again their numbers show it. A 0.2 % increase in student grants, a mockery of less than EUR 3 million, just when a report from the Conference of Rectors of universities has just been published, where it is concluded that the amount of university scholarships has fallen to 2004 levels, despite a significant increase in the number of people who need them; 41% in the last five years, due to the fall in family incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a receipt, it is not a receipt, that in addition to the many students that Lomce herself is going to corner, the Government is also dedicated to making a selection through the general budgets. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments to make progress in access to and equal access to education, promoting equal opportunities and social justice. We are submitting an amendment to provide 100 million euros more for scholarships and student grants, so that no one stays in the cove for economic reasons and education becomes a right to be a privilege. We also propose an amount of more than EUR 20 million for the Erasmus programme, and increase the amount of aid for textbooks by EUR 50 million, which had been eliminated in 2014. On the other hand, we propose to increase by 60 million the contribution to the autonomous communities for actions and programmes in children's and primary education. Finally, and for the umpteenth time, we propose an increase of slightly more than 700,000 euros to the Royal Galega Academy to reach the million. It was the budget envisaged for 2011 and is unjustifiably reduced to 273,000 euros for 2016. Ultimately, in our view, the Government's education budgets consolidate not the recovery of nothing, but the outpouring of public education begun in 2011. It is clear that, if this is the case, the new Minister of Education has also secured a real gold withdrawal. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs Pérez Fernández. Mr Lleonart has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have a sort of feeling of déjà vu with the intervention I had yesterday in agriculture. Looks like we're talking about different budgets again. With some of the things he has said, I have had a moment of boiling blood, specifically with the issue of mental health in Valencia. It is quite funny - it is a way of speaking - because, although it is true that the psychiatric reform in the Valencian Community was carried out by the PSOE, you have dedicated, in the Valencian Community specifically, to dismantling year after year the psychiatric in Bétera that had been a reference at international level. With this, this kind of issues and concern about mental health, when you have been responsible for completely ending it and almost licking it and privatizing it, is quite striking, quite negative and, sometimes, you might even say that embarrassing. The 2016 State General Budgets for the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality are based on a false vision of the reality that our group, the Progressive Union and Democracy, cannot share. The planning of the budget allocation to address the most pressing problems of Spanish society has been distorted since its inception. Health cuts, carried out by the Government over the past four years, have resulted in a significant fall in the amounts allocated to the care of citizens' most basic health needs. The fall in the expenditure of the General Administration of the State, together with the cuts and budgetary constraints carried out by the autonomous administrations, have almost led to the extinction of social services in Spain, as well as damage to health services that will be very difficult to repair. The Government demonstrates its lack of sensitivity to the plight of many families in our country, by reducing the total budget of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality by more than €70 million. A budget cut that could be used to increase the provision of social services and aid to the most disadvantaged. With this global decline, which prevents the improvement of Spanish society, there is evidence of a lack of investment in social services from previous years. A proof of this is the increase in the current transfers of the State Secretariat of Social Services and Equality, which increases by more than EUR 16 million the transfers to the autonomous communities to cover social programmes, as well as to families and non-profit institutions, which increases their amount by more than EUR 5 million to fight poverty, a budgetary increase that highlights the lack of investment in these items in previous years. Despite the increase in these items, we believe that the levels of poverty achieved by Spanish society require greater budgetary effort on the part of the Government. The budgets of this ministry also show a reduction in the budget determined under the heading of equal opportunities between women and men, which denies the Government's statements about its willingness to end this scourge. On the other hand, there has been a freezing of funds for the fight against HIV/AIDS, in a situation in which Government cuts have led to an increased risk of the spread of HIV/AIDS, leaving undocumented immigrants outside the health care system. A determined fight against HIV/AIDS is needed to eradicate this problem and control its expansion in our country. Not to mention, on the other hand, the violation of the rights of lesbian women who want access to assisted fertilization treatments or the lack of attention to family diversity and its specific problems. For all the above, our group has called for the return of this item and, on the other hand, we have tabled a number of amendments to improve the study and treatment of rare diseases - a subject that has been pending in previous years - to improve the funding of autonomous agencies, to cover gaps in the national transplant system, to improve the level of assistance in the care system for dependency, to increase the allocation of programmes to support the family and children, given the extreme situation of child poverty in our country, and to increase support for programmes for persons with disabilities. In short, Minister - and in conclusion - for our group we are talking about insensitive budgets and nothing social that we cannot share. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u48	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. For the Plural Left Group and to defend its amendments, Mrs Castaño has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u49	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the presentation and debate of the draft budgets we are faced with what we could call enormous and costly - expensive because we have paid for it by all the Spaniards; let us say it - electoral propaganda operation. In this context, we have heard to the full - because we are almost at the end of the debate - that these budgets reflect economic recovery and, moreover, a few days ago I had the opportunity to hear in the Commission how this budget was described as the most social budget of democracy. The Minister also referred to the social nature of this budget. He has not dared so much, to say that he is the most social of democracy, but he has also made this reference. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, on many occasions, on excessive occasions, this House or, I am sorry, some group in this House - I am obviously referring to that of the People's Party - seems to be light years away from everyday reality. A reality in which 770,000 households do not have any income; in which irregular immigrants do not have the right to health care; in which dependent persons die while waiting for the benefit or service to which they are entitled, according to the law; in which many young people must emigrate to find employment. A reality in which basic social services must meet with scarce resources the constant increase in demand; in which the municipalities, the suffering municipalities, had owed and had to cover in isolation the service of municipal teleassistance because in 2013 the contribution of the State was abolished; in which inequality between men and women was increased as a result of the crisis. A reality, in short, ladies and gentlemen, in which the vast majority of people suffer from the economic crisis and cuts while a few see their incomes grow in a way that we could call indecent and obscene. We are now dealing with section 26, we are facing the budget of a ministry of undeniable social projection, because the policies promoted by the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality condition, for better or for worse, directly or indirectly, the lives of millions of people. In a quick review of the figures presented, the argument of the social nature of this budget is quickly dismantled. So, in general terms, we see how this budget is about 20% lower than in 2011. The play is clear: I welcome or suppress programs, services and social benefits during almost the entire legislature and, in the last budget, I carry out a slight increase and thus say that we have increased social spending. Social budget? Do you think that citizenship has such a fragile memory that you are going to believe your sudden social concern? And all this while the pharmaceutical replenishment is maintained, it threatens the autonomous communities that keep health care to the undocumented, when figures are presented that do not guarantee a minimum of health coordination work, that will not allow to develop health strategies or plans, let alone establish mechanisms of territorial equity that, to some extent, I recall, guaranteed the abolished Cohesion Fund. In short, we cannot talk, we cannot believe that social concern when at the same time everything is done to dismantle universal health. But there is more, do you not consider it a cruel joke or a show, perhaps, of refined cynicism, to describe as social a budget that ends, through the facts, the system of autonomy and attention to dependence? We will be told that there is an increase of 75 million in spending on dependency care policies, but the problem is that during this term more than 1,460 million have been cut. The tragedy, ladies and gentlemen, is that there are 445,000 people with recognized rights who are still waiting for help. We can also be told that the state contribution to the agreed plan has been slightly increased, through which, as you know, the basic network of social services is financed, but this increase allows me to describe it as mild or anecdotal and that in no way will compensate for the increase in the demand for these services. There are accounts - I have already mentioned - in which funding for the municipal teleassistance service is again forgotten. In other words, we must also express our disagreement with the appropriations provided for in this budget for policies on equality and the fight against gender-based violence, and we do so because they seem clearly insufficient to address a problem whose most tragic face has been demonstrated this summer. In equality policies, the cumulative cut since 2011 - which is when it is necessary to compare - is 37%; in this year, the cut is 5%. In the fight against gender-based violence, the cut over the years has been 17%, which is not rinsed with this make-up operation, which has consisted of an increase of 6% in this particular budget. It is not surprising, therefore, the criticisms of women's organizations for the electoral use, for example, of the visit of the President of the Government to the service 016, which they have also made in relation to the draft budgets, in which the allocation for equality policies represents only 0.01 of the total budget. We also feel that the allocation set for consumption is scarce, even more so given that numerous cases of fraud and abuse, especially in financial matters, are emerging. In the youth field, we also consider that the budget is very small in a ministry where, by the way, the only action worthy of highlighting - because of the negative, of course - has been the abolition of the Youth Council of Spain and its inability, by the way, to put into operation the consultative body that should have replaced it. From the Plural Left we have tabled an amendment to the whole section, as well as partial amendments, some of which I shall briefly list. We argue that the Health Cohesion Fund needs to be recovered in order to ensure equal access to public assistance services.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u50	Mrs. Castaño, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u51	We advocate the creation of a State fund to combat poverty. We understand that health strategies need to be strengthened. We support the need to implement a guaranteed minimum income system, understood as the right to receive minimum subsistence income, together with socio-occupational support measures, recognizing this right on a subjective basis. We believe that a State fund to combat energy poverty should be established.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u52	Mrs. Castaño, you have to end inexorably.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u53	We also believe that there is a need to significantly increase the provision for dependency care, prevention of gender-based violence and a concerted plan.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u54	Mrs. Castaño, don't make me take your word for it. You don't have to read everything you bring.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u55	These amendments...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u56	Delete a paragraph, for example, and finish with the last sentence. I'm sure you have one last sentence. Say it and go.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u57	These amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are the reflection of a budget that we would consider social. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u58	Very good phrase, Mrs. Castaño. Thank you very much. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió, Mrs Tarruella has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, these general health budgets for 2016 are up by 3.6% compared to 2015, but in our view this slight increase does not by far improve the health situation of our communities, also taking into account that it is the autonomous communities that have powers in this area. We still have to solve the underfunding of our National Health System. The vast majority of transfers to the autonomous communities in these budgets maintain their amounts or have a symbolic endowment if compared to those planned for 2011. I'm talking to you about the National Drug Plan, the strategy for rare diseases, among others. In addition, many of the allocations that disappeared in the early years of this legislature of his current Government remain unrestored, such as those for the National AIDS Plan. Our amendments seek to alleviate some of these shortcomings which we believe are important, but we must also add the definitive disappearance of the State General Budgets from the heading for the Health Cohesion Fund, a fund intended, as you all know, to guarantee the right of citizens to receive health care at any point in the territory, in addition to on an equal basis, as well as to ensure compensation for the cost of such benefits for the receiving communities of patients from other autonomous communities. This, moreover, is not said to be Democratic Union, it is not said to be Democratic Convergence, it is told by patients and it is told to twenty-four mayors gathered yesterday in Fraga by signing a manifesto of Fraga where they ask for health care in Lleida. There are twenty-four mayors of Occidental municipalities who ask the ministry to recover this departure from the Cohesion Fund so that it can follow the assistance they had had so far, and most of these mayors are from its own political party. We have an amendment that we consider very important for this heading to reappear. This represents for Catalonia 700 million euros less than those received in 2011, when we are now barely 5 million. The rest of the amendments are designed to alleviate the shortcomings of some entities that provide social and health care and that many of them work in the prevention of disabilities. We have an amendment to the Action Plan for Persons with Disabilities, which we believe is greatly diminished in these budgets. I don't have time to go on. I do not want to eat the time that belongs to my colleague Carles Campuzano, who is going to defend the rest of the parts of his ministry, but I want to make it clear that I would have liked these last budgets that I defend in this House after these two legislatures would have been otherwise. I would have liked to have had a dialogue, some of our amendments had been accepted or at least some of them could have been negotiated. I'm sorry to have to say goodbye to you saying this hasn't been possible so far. They still have a little time to fix it. That's in your hands, gentlemen of the People's Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tarruella. For the same group, Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. If I may, I would like to say on behalf of the deputies of Democratic Convergence... [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] Having done this consideration, my group necessarily has a very different reading of your budget, at least on three of the issues that you have told us. In terms of dependency, you will not be able to deny that you will end this year with more than 400,000 people on the waiting list; that of these, more than 90,000 are non-moderate dependent, but dependent on the other grades; that the system is only capable of absorbing new people served to the extent that, unfortunately and inevitably, the people who have been incorporated into it will die until then, and that in addition, all public expenditure is being assumed by the autonomous communities. Today, through the direct funding mechanisms of the State, the State accounts for only 18 per cent of the expenditure of these items. The remainder belongs to the Autonomous Communities, which has led to increases in co-payments and to the fact that other social services items belonging to the Autonomous Communities should be allocated to cover the issues of dependency. Therefore, Minister, in this matter the government will have ended its dependence on the subject of dependence. I do not say, as some spokesman has said, that the system is touched with death. The system has its course, but you will not have been able to give it the financial muscle that guarantees the future of attention to dependence. This is a fundamental reason to reject the budget of your area. Secondly, the Government has largely ignored the problem of child poverty, which is not managed by the Government to incorporate a certain amount of millions into recent budgets to address this issue. You know perfectly well that the magnitude of the problem cannot be answered with 16, with 24 million euros, requires structural measures similar to those of the most advanced states in our environment. You in this budget keep the child benefit in charge of Social Security frozen - it is in the same figure as in the early 2000s - which is the main instrument for combating child poverty and is the responsibility of the Government, not of Minister Alonso, but of the budget that he has defended today. Finally, the budget continues to fail to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court. It is ironic to recall this fact on this day, when we are going to discuss and vote on this historic reform of the Constitutional Court, that this government has failed to comply with twelve judgments of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, which clearly maintain that in those powers of the autonomous communities the state can put resources but that management must be autonomous. These budgets, again, consolidate the centralized management of 0.7% of the IRPF for social and environmental matters. Once again, the Government fails to comply with the Constitution, fails to comply with the sentences, what an irony!, on the day they intend to force this reform of the Constitutional Court. Mr President, these are reasons which necessarily lead the Democratic Convergence to table this refund amendment and to reject its proposal for budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Olmos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to join in a affectionate greeting to Mrs Tarruella, spokesperson for Convergence i Unió at the time, and now d ́Unió, for the work she has always done for the benefit of public health and for the availability that her parliamentary group has always had. Minister, these are budgets that do not meet the needs of the National Health System. Unfortunately, in the few months that he has been in the ministry, he has not been able to correct the course that the People's Party imposed on public health when it came to government. The balance sheet is cutbacks and less equity, because there is more inequality in access to innovations or, for example, waiting lists, which are enormously unequal in the whole system; less cohesion, which is the most serious. The disappearance of the Cohesion Fund is a time bomb for the internal coordination of the National Health System, but above all for the mobility of patients; and less quality, unfortunately I have to tell you. When we are not able to set in motion certain types of responses, strategies or do so with difficulty in the health system, there is less quality. What the Socialist Group's amendments seek to do is to re-establish, as Mrs Tarruella rightly said, the situation in 2011. For example, AIDS or health strategies are practically in a ridiculous situation, with the consequences. We intend to put this situation back on track to help you meet an objective that you will unfortunately not meet and that your predecessor in office raised, such as interoperability in the extension of the electronic recipe. That's not a reality. The goal you have set yourselves is for that to be the case throughout the country at the end of the legislature. Unfortunately, it's not like that. But most importantly, as far as the Cohesion Fund is concerned, we have a budget of EUR 200 million which aims to ensure patient mobility - today there are barriers in the seventeen regional systems -; ensuring the entry of innovation - the example of hepatitis C has highlighted the difficulties in financing this; ensuring reference centres so that patients with rare diseases have no barriers to mobility. This is especially important. I shall finish, Mr President, so as not to eat the time of my fellow Members of the parliamentary group. You, unfortunately, have not mentioned healing in Ceuta and Melilla. In particular, Melilla has a very serious problem in public health. The most important example is the paralysis of the works of the new hospital that began to be built in the last legislature and that have been paralyzed for more than three years. Please support the amendment we put forward so that it is possible to complete the work of that hospital. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Olmos. For the same group, Mr Sahuquillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u65	Minister, these budgets do not reflect the political will to correct the increase in poverty and existing inequality, but on the contrary, they deepen the social gap at a time when the Spanish population at risk of poverty and social exclusion reaches 30%. While you look at the other side, the risk of poverty is constantly increasing, especially in the group of children under the age of sixteen, reaching in this age group 35.4%, 3.5 points more than the previous year. Faced with this reality you continue with the canteen of the economic recovery of the families, and I wonder, what families are you talking about? These are the fifth budgets of a legislature marked by Rajoy's antisocial policies, which continues the process of destruction of the welfare state that we have been denouncing since 2012. We have recorded a set of amendments which seek, together with those tabled in other sections of the social field, to reorient a budget which does not respond to the problems of the most vulnerable. Among other things, dependency: replenish the agreed level of €283 million in the five budgets they have made. The elimination of this channel of financing has meant to stop investing in the system - listen to me - 2,830 million euros between the General Administration of the State and autonomous communities. In addition, we intend to extend the minimum level credit to ensure, as soon as possible, the rights of the 434,000 dependants on the waiting list. These are his own data, the Imserso data. Second, a concerted plan for social services. How can it be that with the same 2014 budget they intend to cater for 1.5 million more users? These are their estimates, which are set out in the programme's memory of objectives. Inconceivable! They have cut this line by 65 % since they ruled, in addition to creating uncertainty in the municipalities with their disastrous local reform. Thirdly, we call for EUR 100 million to provide specific and specific plans for inclusion, childhood, family and disability. What is the use of these approved plans if they do not have their budgetary reflection? Fourth, replenish the teleassistance game you eliminated. And fifth, and last, all these years we have called for the increase corresponding to the social tourism and social thermalism games that you have cut. Today we are obliged to ask also for good management, transparency and honesty. I say this because of the recent decision of the Central Administrative Court of Contractual Resources that annuls the award of the Major Vacation Program 2015-2017. In particular, the court speaks of an unacceptable discretion. This resolution delays the implementation of the programme, a delay whose consequences will be felt in the active ageing of our elderly, but will also have consequences of a labour, economic and social nature. We know that our amendments will be rejected as in previous budgets. There you deceive yourselves; the citizens no longer deceive you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Sahuquillo. For the Socialist Group itself, Mrs Alvarez has the floor. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Thank you, President. Mr Minister, these amendments we are presenting to you are the amendments on recovery; those on the recovery of speed, diligence and commitment to equality and against gender-based violence. We have moved from being the country of reference for equality to being the country of greatest concern in the international arena, because in less than four years a legacy of progress, rights and social progress, pioneering measures and, above all, concrete and committed commitments has been squandered. Our amendments on equality exceed EUR 100 million in the section we are dealing with. There are seventeen amendments to this chapter, of which twelve represent new objectives in order to accelerate the pace of violence prevention in the face of the lack of diligence of the People's Party and to rescue, above all, the agenda of equality in the face of the deliberate and programmed paralysis of the bodies responsible for implementing policies for equality. It is no longer a question of equalizing funds with those of previous Governments; it is a question of having sufficient funds to correct dysfunctions and to give a new impetus to equality and to the fight against violence. The amendments we are submitting reverse the reduction in support for municipal social services and women's centres, which are the real tools for promoting equality and preventing violence. Socialist amendments show ambition when, for example, they multiply the budget effort for social assistance for women and children who are victims of gender-based violence by tenfold. We have introduced new programmes to care for child victims of trafficking who have not found fit in the current institutional response to this problem. We have set up a new road map providing enough for a new permanent prevention plan and we have provided funding for a new individualized risk assessment system for child victims of violence. We recover the investment in postgraduate university studies and compensate for the loss of endowment from the heading for the women's associative movement. We amend, in order to curb the dark policy of subsidies from the Women's Institute, for example, to business entities whose major awards are made without advertising or competition. We replenish funds for organizations with expertise in training and promotion of women's employment programmes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u67	Mrs. Alvarez, you have to finish. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: I'm finishing up. We meet the social demand that forces us to prioritize the fight against gender-based violence, but we also strengthen the bodies that the PP has broken down. They are, ladies and gentlemen, amendments to contain the aggressions that equality has suffered in this country and to resume the path of the other recovery, the fair recovery and above all the recovery of the equality agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alvarez. I think I understand the feeling of the plenary in addition to what has been said here, thanking Mrs Tarruella for her work as a great parliamentarian and wishing her the best. [[Applauds]] For the People's Group, you have the word doña Teresa Angulo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we are discussing the fifth budgets of the legislature, reflecting the fulfilment of our commitment to the Spaniards, which was nothing other than achieving economic growth, creating jobs and thus guaranteeing the welfare state. [[The lady]] Its insistence on using for four years the same mantra of cuts in social policies is dismantled with accounts that allocate to social spending 35 billion euros more than in 2011. But budgets are not just accounts, they are also management and their arguments are dismantled with efficient management that in a very difficult economic context has managed not only to guarantee our welfare state but to improve and strengthen it. It causes perplexity to hear about social cuts to those who left millions of families without work and with it without income, unable to pay for their housing, their children's food, light or water. [[Applauds]] ; to hear about the retreat of those who brought ruin to our country and poverty to many families, and worst of all, at those hard times they ran out of the government unable to manage the situation. And now in their amendments they propose to return to the political mimes, those that put the health system at risk for the accumulated debt and for that custom of not paying the bills that endangered the supply of our health facilities. They insist on repealing a reform that has guaranteed the system and made it more universal, including thousands of Spaniards who were not and offering - stop demagogic - to care for immigrants in an irregular situation like the rest of the citizens but without endangering the system. Today you tell the Spaniards that with their amendments they want to return to socialist health care, for which the unemployed without income pay 40% of the medicines and people with large pensions do not pay anything, or that they oppose a more cohesive system that guarantees equal attention to all Spaniards simply because they remain committed to maintaining what did not work. The Cohesion Fund does not disappear; it is strengthened and expanded. Their inability to reform and improve things cannot be an obstacle for others to try. That is why we are defending accounts that grow by 6%, but above all a management that has allowed in a very difficult economic context to advance in services in the recognition of our professionals, in a more modern health, in incorporating 140 innovative drugs or in creating a strong system to meet future challenges such as chronicity. [[Applauds]] And above all save the health of the greatest cut that has suffered in all its history, the one that made the PSOE, leaving it at the edge of bankruptcy. If you really want to be credible, set an example where you rule. Andalusia is the autonomous community that spends less money on health expenditure per inhabitant. And ladies and gentlemen of Convergence, Mrs Tarruella, tell the mayor of Lleida that the commitment to health is not demonstrated by spending millions on dividing citizens while paying off medicines and worsening health quality. [[Applauds]] Priority is given in their budgets to health items in relation to expenses for propaganda or party delusions. That's how health is guaranteed. The same is true in the social sphere. You are talking about dependency, when you left a dying system, with a debt of EUR 1,034 million, with a waiting list of more than 300,000 people and a cut of EUR 235 million, compared to a government that has invested 6.5 billion - 6% more than the previous government -, has paid the debts and fully complies with the law, as it targets 50% - not 18%, but 50% - which corresponds to it and this year EUR 75 million more. That is why waiting lists have now been reduced by 58%, the level of coverage is 14 points higher than in 2012 and 50% of current beneficiaries have been incorporated during these three years. The system is not collapsed or dead, as they claim to show, but very alive and there are not those four hundred and a thousand people on the waiting list. And if you suffer some delay the system is again due to communities such as Andalusia, in which the average to access is 300 days and where one in three dependents lives pending benefit. Again by chance? Well, no, not by chance, the DNA of socialist non-management. [[Applauds]] You talk about poverty and social exclusion, although you acknowledge that it has fallen because you reduce your plan from 1,000 million to 50 million. The PSOE now joins that vital minimum income that previously did not support, fruit, I understand, of that idyll with its populist partners, that just as they do not know where they are going to get the money. When you read your amendments you wonder where you were while millions of people lost the greatest social protection there is: employment. What did they do in their years of government, when Spain reached record figures in poverty and exclusion? I will tell you: cut child benefits and family support services. And today they are opposed to spending EUR 48 million on the Plan for the Most Vulnerable Families and Child Poverty, checks for large families, birth support or to lowering EUR 9 billion in taxes on families, but above all they are opposed to the best plan for inclusion and against the poverty that exists: policies that generate employment, policies that generate 500,000 jobs a year, which is what people really want to work. [[Applauds]] They are not going to give us lessons because the Spaniards know that we do not want to go back to the 2011 scenario; we do not want to go back to those social cuts that the Socialist Party made and that can now be aggravated by the support of those populist partners who do not know where they could lead this country. Mrs Alvarez, if you want to contribute to the fight against gender-based violence, stop using it as a weapon of attack on the Government. They support accounts that rise by 6 % and go to the Victims Assistance Fund EUR 1.5 million more than in 2011. You know from your own experience, from the balance sheet of your legislature, that more budget does not mean less deaths. There is a need for legal action, such as those carried out by this Government, providing legal assistance to all victims even since the complaint, reforming the Criminal Code, establishing the unimpedibility of aid or that the murderer cannot collect the pension or inherit from his victim and, above all, the recognition of minors as victims. [[Applauds]] What have you done with all this? Did you support him? They reflect, because the greatest commitment to the victims is to move them that the State and society as a whole act against that social scourge and not to use a battle of numbers - sometimes even deaths - only to wear down a government. There the People's Parliamentary Group will never find him. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The Spaniards today have a sustainable welfare system that protects our health, takes care of those who need it most and protects the weakest. That is what these accounts are presented by the Government, so we are not going to allow the setback that you propose in your amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Angulo. We move on to the debate under sections 01 to 05 and 08. For the defence of your amendments, Mrs Jordà has the floor in the first place. Sections 01 to 05 and 08
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u71	Thank you, Madam President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] However, today's debate is not about the medieval monarchical institution or the macho Constitution that states that the male will reign over women, today's debate is about how much money the head of state is charging, and the fact is that we find it somewhat excessive that the head of state covers more than 21,300 euros a day. It's not bad the little man! And more considering that he does not pay neither the Palace of Zarzuela nor any of the frequent trips, dinners or official invitations he attends. I repeat: more than 21,300 euros per day or, which is the same, Felipe de Bourbon charges in one day as much as the average net income of families in Spain throughout the year. In fact, their daily wage is equivalent to the annual average gross wage. In five days Felipe de Borbón collects more than the president of the government throughout the year. Felipe de Borbón collects more than twice a year than they cost, together with all the Catalan embassies. As such, Philip of Bourbon does not charge as head of state. It is evident that Philip of Bourbon charges as king, that is, he does not charge for what he does, but simply because he is who he is. Don't fool us anymore. To say that the king alone - among millions of quotes - 234,000 euros is a scam. The king charges almost 8 million euros for the support of his family and his house and, as his Constitution says, then he distributes it as he pleases. If you want to give your father or mother a little paycheck, please don't tell us any more milongas. He pays them a salary because with his salary he does what he wants, not because the State assigns a salary to him, another to his wife and another to his parents. However, I would dare to propose a compromise. We remain from the departure of the Royal House of the General Budgets of the State the almost 300,000 euros that Juan Carlos de Borbón and Sofia of Greece and let us assign them a pension for retirement, obviously if they have contributed, and in case they have not contributed to the non-contributory pension. Nor can we be told of whether the Head of State has to bear certain expenses, because for this reason there is the departure of more than EUR 6 million in support of the administrative management of the Head of State of the Ministry of Presidency; in the same way, ladies and gentlemen, that for official travel there is a departure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Royal Guard pays to the Ministry of Defence or that its palaces, such as El Pardo, Marivent or La Mareta, pays them National Heritage. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we consider - this is why this amendment we have been presenting for many years - that the Head of State should charge as the President of the Government, not a penny more. Having said that, it viscates the Catalan Republic. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Centella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u73	Madam President, I am speaking to defend our two amendments, one of which also relates to the Royal House. From our Republican conviction, it is clear that we would like this amendment not to refer to the Royal House, but to the Presidency of the Republic. From there, more than the 20% reduction amendment itself, we are faced with a heading which is not for the Head of State, but for the Head of State and his family. We believe that this highlights one of the differences between maintaining a republic and maintaining a monarchy, which not only pays a salary to the head of State but also to his family and distributes it as he wants, that is, without having to give any compulsory account. We believe that once and for all it would be necessary for the Head of State to be separated from what is the family of the monarch. We believe that the monarchy is an archaic institution, an institution of the Middle Ages, and that in a state like Spain it makes no sense that genetics is the one that tells us who is going to be the next head of state. We believe that if you can choose the head of your ladder, it is very difficult that we cannot choose the head of state. From our republican conviction we believe that, moreover, in the Spanish State the monarchy is still maintained with these considerations of not only headship of the State but of family. Not only do we have to support what the political house is, but we also have to support the family house of the head of state. We believe that this does not correspond to what a State should be in the twenty-first century. The second amendment is to budget the expenses for the development and operation of the Military Life Observatory, an important body which was created with illusion, was received with illusion in the military sphere, but which can be defrauded if it is then not accompanied by measures to ensure its functioning. We believe that it is important - we said it when it was launched - because this organ is an element that comes to normalize life in an institution like the Armed Forces, which also have a functioning and a scheme more like that of another era than what must be an Armed Forces of the 21st century. That is why we believe that it would be a good gesture to value this Observatory of Military Life. This would show that the People's Party government takes it seriously; if it does not seem like a gesture to the gallery that comes to show how the People's Party has never wanted to modernize, it has never wanted to situate the Armed Forces in the 21st century. As we have said in other speeches, we are convinced that these two amendments will be defeated in which we believe they will be the shortest budgets in the history of this Parliament. We hope that the amendments that you are going to defeat by your absolute majority will be put to good use by the people on 20 December by making a full amendment to their budget at the polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u74	Thank you, Mr. Centella. We're moving on to position-fixing. Convergence and Union Group? [[Denial]] He's not gonna step in. Socialist Group, Mr Canongia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the debate of the constitutional bodies, namely the House of His Majesty the King, the General Courts, the Court of Auditors, the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary. In none of those sections has our group tabled any amendments, but we want to take the opportunity to position ourselves in each and every one of the other groups, given their political significance. In section 02, the General Courts, two amendments have been tabled, one from the Plural Left and one from the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy. That of the Plural Left is actually two on the same budget line and refers to the budget allocation of the Military Life Observatory. To the amendment that remains alive from both our group will vote in favour, on the grounds that they propose to provide budget for a body created by the Courts and we believe that it cannot be left in a mere empty gesture without content if it does not have a budget. The other amendment to Section 02 of the Progress Union and Democracy is already becoming a classic in budgetary debates. It refers to the use of official languages in the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate. We cannot consider this amendment to be any smaller than it is, because it responds to a uniformist view of Spain that we cannot share; because accepting this amendment is to deny that in Spain there are different official languages and that they are the heritage of all. Accepting this amendment would mean renouncing our obligation to recognize and feel as our own all the languages of Spain, all of them without distinction. With reference to the amendments to section 01, the House of His Majesty the King, they are from different groups but all of them have a common denominator: they propose to reduce the contribution to the Head of State. Ladies and gentlemen, without entering into any other kind of debate that does not take place at this time of budgetary procedure, we should be able to assess two things: whether our institutions respond adequately to the constitutional forecasts allocated and a second if the cost/benefit of them allows us to say that they help us to have a democracy of quality and efficient way. To this end, it would have been very positive if the appearance requested by my group for a Royal House official to come forward with the budget for that section had been approved. Unfortunately, as in previous years, the Government and the People's Group or the People's Group and the Government have prevented it. Flaco favor have done to the institution and transparency that citizenship demands of us. So, as soon as they come up to this rostrum and engage in a vehemently intervention in the defence of the Head of State, they have given rise to others from other groups repeating themselves in amendments that respond more - as my children would say - to a posture than to a serious and rigorous debate on the allocation of resources to the high institutions of the State and to the assessment of the efficient performance of their function. Gentlemen of the People's Party, with their veto of the presence of a representative of the Royal House they have provoked the presentation of amendments that are a nonsense and this year more, when their majesty the king has lowered the allocation by 20%. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that an effort has been made in recent months to modernize the King's House. Day after day, new developments are being introduced in its operation. Without going any further, very few days ago the Council of Ministers passed a decree - a law which established that the contracts of the Royal House were subject to the requirements of transparency, publicity and public concurrence, or the adoption of a new code of conduct of compulsory compliance for all staff of the Royal House. They are a few more steps to those already taken, such as publishing their detailed annual budgets and their quarterly liquidation status, as well as publishing the allocation of each and every one of their members; steps that we consider very positive from our group. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want a quality democracy that responds adequately to the needs of our society, we must provide resources to their top institutions, but being demanding in the performance of their functions and demanding maximum transparency. That which we have defended, we defend and we will defend the Socialists. For these reasons, we reject the various amendments tabled to this section and will vote in favour of the text of the opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u76	Thank you, Mr. Canongia. For the People's Group, Mr Albendea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more year I have the honour of defending the budgets of His Majesty the King's House; I believe it is the tenth time. My firm monarchical convictions and above all the austerity of the Crown have made that defense very easy for me. The amending Members repeat themselves year after year and, of course, the weak arguments are always the same. Some want, with an amendment to the budgets, to change the Constitution and always forget article 65, which is already boring to repeat: The king receives from the budgets of the State a global amount for the support of his family and House and distributes it freely. The House is not the building where the royal family lives, it is an institution that collaborates with his majesty to fulfill the important responsibilities assigned to him by the Constitution, and the royal family is institutionally composed only of six people: his majesty the kings, his royal Highness the princess of Asturias; his royal Highness the Infanta Sofia and his majesty the Emeritus kings Don Juan Carlos and Dona Sofia, for whom, as a sign of gratitude for what they have done for Spain for four decades, I dare to ask for an ovation. [[Applauds]] The 1995 amendment of the Plural Left proposes that the budget of the House of His Majesty the King be reduced by 20%, without giving any more reason than that it will have a budget more than enough. It does not know, or does not want to acknowledge, that from 2010 the budget has been reduced year after year until 2013, with a reduction of 13.20 % and that the budget has been frozen since then, repeating the same amount in 2014, 2015 and the current 2016. This amendment to the Plural Left is of supine injustice. With the 1965 amendment, the Plural Left pursues two objectives. One, that the members of the Royal House be assimilated to the high offices of the General Administration of the State in respect of the obligations envisaged in relation to the records of activities of property and property rights. The other, that the budgets are presented with disaggregation for precise budget terms to know the distribution. The first thing is to remind The Plural Left once again of Article 65 of the Constitution, which allows the king freely to distribute the budget. And despite this constitutional facility, there is an agreement between the General Intervention of the State and the House of His Majesty the King, dated 18 September 2014, in which, among other commitments, in addition to the audit report of the accounts, it is stipulated that the General Budgets of the State will apply, with the necessary adjustments resulting from the constitutional configuration of the House of His Majesty the King, the budgetary and accounting principles provided for in the General Budget Act for entities belonging to the administrative public sector. Then, that concern of the Plural Left has already been voluntarily satisfied by the aforementioned agreement between the House of His Majesty the King and the General Intervention of the State. Amendment 2644 of the Progressive Union and Democracy is still curious. He acknowledges that the budget of the House of His Majesty the King for 2016 is similar to that of 2014 and 2015 and 8% lower than in 2011. He also acknowledges the gesture of his majesty Felipe VI to reduce his salary by 20%. Well, after this background he commends, he proposes that the Royal House's budget be returned to the Government. Will it be to raise the endowment? Otherwise, after the background, there is no explanation for the whole amendment. Amendment 2857, by Esquerra Republicana, has already taken root for many years. He repeatedly proposed that the king be given a salary similar to that of the President of the Government, but did not say how all the expenses of the institution's staff, office, travel, etc. were financed. As article 65, paragraph 2, of the Constitution states that the king freely appoints and relieves the civilian and military members of his house, he seems to claim that his majesty relieves the present members and does not name anyone else. The Galego Nationalist Block, in its amendment 3322, proposes to reduce the amount allocated to His Majesty's House by 30%, under the false argument that cuts in the budgets of the Royal House were lower in previous years of economic recession and budgetary adjustment. Looking at developments over a long period from 2003 to 2013, we note that the increase in non-financial expenditure by the State during that period was 40,58 % and that the consumer price index during the same period was 27,50 %. Although it seems incredible, the budget of the House of His Majesty the King in that period has increased by 3.49% and, despite this, in the last four years it has been reduced by 13.20 %. The budgets of the House of His Majesty the King cost us every Spanish 16 cents a year. Obviously, we will vote against all the amendments to the House of His Majesty the King's budget for unjust and ungrateful. In section 02, General Courts, two amendments have been tabled by the Plural Left, which have the same concept and motivation and however different amounts. They relate to the current expenditure of the Military Life Observatory, which is a function of the Congress of Deputies. Amendment 2026 proposes EUR 60,000 and EUR 55,000 in 1996. We are going to vote against, because it is not clear that within Congress there is a budget of its own. The Progress Union and Democracy is proposing that the budget of Section 2 be returned to the Government, with a serious complaint in its statement that it does not explain. It speaks - and I quote literally - of major scandals of undue expenses. I request UPyD to give an explanation to such a grave accusation. [[Rumors]] He also reiterated something that had already been very thorough, such as the removal of the Senate's translation costs, and complained that his group was not involved in the preparation of the budgets of the General Courts. UPyD would have to have enough deputies to belong to the Bureau and then be present in the Senate. We are going to vote against these amendments. On the other hand, no amendments have been tabled to sections 3, 4, 5 and 8. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my last speech in plenary after five legislatures remained in this House, three supporting the Government and two in the opposition. I have had the honour, not because of my merits, but because of my age, of twice presiding over the constituent session of the House. In any case, my feelings are of gratitude to all the groups, to the lawyers and to all the staff of the House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Albendea. I know it's your last intervention and we're going to remind you with great affection in this house. You have been an exemplary companion, an exemplary deputy and a good man. Thank you very much, Mr. Albendea. [[Applauds]] We move on to the debate of the State Business Corporations, corporate public entities, foundations and other public bodies. In defence of his amendments, Mr Rodríguez Sánchez has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group to defend our amendments and establish a position on the budget for the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and the EFE Agency. The truth is that the budgets for 2016 do not incorporate many new ones, let alone none, for both. One more year the government freezes the allocation, the amount of the contract for services with the EFE Agency, and one more year penalizes Radiotelevision with a cut of more than 200 million euros, and it is already five years. It is true that this year the Government has tried to camouflage the cut with the extraordinary allocation for the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro -50 million, which will not cover the total cost - and an increase in the radio rate. But not with those. The reality is that by 2016 Spanish Radio Television will have 25 million euros more and with that amount it has to issue the Olympic Games - when those of London cost about 60 million euros - and also absorb the deficit that will be at the end of 2015. It is therefore clear that we are faced with accounts that do not guarantee the budgetary balance of Spanish Radiotelevision, accounts that continue to limit its ability to offer quality programming, to aspire to the maximum audience and to compete with the rest of the channels and accounts that are in line with the Government's objective, which is to continue to reduce the public service of radiotelevision. State trading companies, corporate public entities, foundations and other public bodies For all this, we ask one more year for the return of accounts for the corporation. But we are not there, we are also proposing a series of practical measures to alleviate their financial situation, which we have already outlined in the Commission. Reasonable measures, such as the reduction in VAT and the increase in the cap of the radio rate, which the Government has ended up assuming but which the People's Group has rejected year after year. Among other things, what we are asking this year is that we agree that one hundred percent of the radio fee is given to the corporation but that no ceiling is set in the Financing Act. What for? So that every year the Budgets Act sets that ceiling and we don't have the problem that has been going on over the last few years. We ask, in relation to EFE, that the amount of the contract with the State be increased and that the so-called public service status be drawn up, two things which the President of the EFE Agency himself claimed in this House. As I said, we are faced with budgets that, despite propaganda, reflect what we have seen throughout the legislature, the government's ill-treatment of public radio and television, financial suffocation and the end of its independence. But, believe me, there is no propaganda that can cover up the damage that the government has done to Spanish Radio Television's accounts and image at this time. You have taken away TV and public radio 950 million euros in four years, you have taken away the entire budget of a year and, with your gross manipulation of the news, you have taken away from public radio the credibility and prestige that you have accumulated in recent years. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies, laugh, but it's the truth. With that so explosive cocktail of the People's Party of Manipulation and Cuts, the Spanish Broadcasting audience is sinking to the historical minimum, and that's not opinion, it's facts and data. Let's start with the accounts. In 2010 and 2011, with the same funding model, Radiotelevision Española was practically in budget balance, despite having a much higher budget. If in addition every year the contribution of the radio rate and the other operators has always been higher than what it received for advertising in recent years, what has been the problem? The problem is simple, it is that you have cut off half of your public service contribution each year and this is what explains that every year the corporation has had a deficit of more than 100 million euros, specifically 134 million euros in 2014. Let's go to the audience. In 2011 The 1st Spanish Radio Television was the leader with an average audience of 14.5, taking 5 points to the next channel. The information was the information reference for the majority of citizens -18% of the audience -, adding four years of undisputed leadership. Today, with manipulation and mismanagement, the Spanish Television audience is at 9%, ladies and gentlemen. [[Show a chart]] In August, the negative record of its entire history was re-beated, and the television stations, which are the backbone of a public service television, are at 13%, 5 points below, and have fallen to third place. In short, gentlemen of the PP, continue with all the propaganda you want. The truth is that they found a healthy public television - not with the 7 billion euros of debt that Mr Aznar left -, leader in audience and with prestige, and they are going to leave it in red numbers, in the historical minimum of audience and without any credibility. That's his balance sheet. The same credibility, none, that have their excuses when accusing the funding model or want to respond to allegations of manipulation pointing to professionals, shielding themselves from professionals. But, man, stop cheating and use those arguments! The professionals - the information board - have been denouncing their bad practices and manipulation for four years, and you know perfectly well who they are that selects, hierarchies, corrects and manipulates the information on Spanish Television. Stop fooling around with advertising, which only interests you to put pressure on private television. We have already explained to them the problem of financing. You know, because you know, that if the adjustment you have demanded of the corporation would have been the same as the entire public sector of the state, it would today be in budgetary equilibrium and even with surplus. If you don't, I'll make you a request. There are two meetings of the Spanish Broadcasting Commission. Gentlemen of the PP, bring your GNP, that GNP to return advertising to Spanish Broadcasting, which had three lines and not a single data, so that it can be discussed. But they won't - of course they won't! - because they don't want it discussed. They do not want the citizens to know that today Spanish Broadcasting would probably have around 200 million euros for advertising and that only with the radio rate receives 380 million. In short, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, no matter how much they try, their lies, their deceptions will not cover up their disastrous management in Spanish Radiotelevision, and no matter how triumphal they bring with the 2016 budgets, it will not change anything either. You will follow the cuts, the Government's propaganda will go further as the electoral campaign approaches and you will continue to sink the image and publicity of Spanish Television because at this point you are only interested in remaining in power as it is. The only positive thing is that the citizens are going to kick them out very soon. They're going to kick them out and they're going to take their hands off public television so that it'll soon be what it was, a TV at the service of everyone and not at the service of Genoa Street. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u80	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Position-fixing turn. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm speaking from the seat. We do not have amendments here, but there are a number of amendments relating to commercial companies, public business entities and other public bodies, some as relevant as AENA or ADIF, to quote some of the entities with a larger budget and whose performance is most relevant from the point of view of public investment. For the Convergence I d'Unió Group, the actions of these bodies must be subject to public control by Parliament and, therefore, by the citizens, and we simply want to record again some amendments which were in the joint text, not in sections, and which refer to the demand for these bodies to be held accountable, as does the rest of the state bodies, so that we know, for example, how much they spend each month, which does not exist at the moment. By the way, until 2013 there was an accounting for regionalization purposes, but curiously, despite being in times of alleged transparency, the Government has removed all this information from the Ministry of Development's website, which is a very significant loss of democratic quality. Therefore, our intervention simply sets out our position on this issue and we will support some of the amendments, which are in line with this spirit of transparency, by Convergence i d'Unió. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u82	Thank you, Mr. Macias. For the People's Group, first of all, Mrs Moraleja.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u83	I'm going to step in from the seat because I'm going to give part of my time to my partner Ramon Moreno to answer Mr. Rodriguez. I wanted to make a point about the amendments tabled to this section by the various parliamentary groups, because it seems that, instead of amendments to improve the general budgets, they are possible proposals for elections next December. More than amendments, they are an electoral programme. It does not matter whether the amendments are feasible or not, whether we have the funds or not, whether they are within the competence of this section or not. What really matters is to say that they proposed it and that the People's Party has said no. Well, you should know that we have said that not because some of them are actually poorly drafted, they are calling for insufficient funds to be set aside, they have been wrong in the competent body, or they would cause enormous damage to the functioning of the different public bodies if we were to delay the financing of treasury funds. That is why we have said no to the amendments tabled by the various parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Moraleja. Second of all, Mr. Moreno, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u85	Thank you, Madam President. I will spend the time I have allocated in this turn to speak exclusively of the budget of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation scheduled for 2016, since the rest of the amendments and public bodies have been addressed at other times of the debate. Faced with those who think and defend that the General Budgets of the State for next year should not be approved before the general elections, in line with the irresponsibility that they have already shown in 2011, we will say that in the case of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation as well as in all budget items, doing so is now of extraordinary importance. The Spanish Broadcasting budget for 2016 is an essential instrument to project this public service towards the future in a stable and balanced way, to consolidate the path of rigour, efficiency and expenditure control of the present and to overcome definitively the errors, excesses and irregularities of the past. With the budget prepared for the year 2016 Spanish Radiotelevision will be able to fulfill with all solvency and capacity its vertebrating role, will achieve its social profitability in the face of the great challenges and informative events of today, will insist on its inextricable commitment to the quality and respect in all the contents it offers, will strengthen its strong professional vocation and rigor in the field of information and will corroborate the stake for a varied offer to meet all the tasks - broad tasks, it must be remembered - that it has assigned as audiovisual public service. It will do so in a scenario of investment in new technologies and more modern means of production, it will do so at the forefront of the possibilities and tools of interactive access demanded by the audience, it will do so significantly improving its international presence and influence, it will do so by managing its accounts transparently and maintaining a policy of sustainability and expenditure containment, it will do so with the legitimate ambition to be more useful and profitable every day to Spanish society, which is the only one to which it owes. And it will do so, ladies and gentlemen, despite a financing law that the passage of time has definitely portrayed already as a model full of problems and as a system that misses even the possibility of accounting for revenues with some precision. This has become a practically insoluble structural problem. The Socialists, in this dramatism that the Socialist spokesman has repeated tiredly, have given us in this process of debate of the budgets few clues to have any alternative or some useful proposal and to improve the situation. They have tabled some unnecessary amendments, since they are already being implemented, and other amendments that are impossible to comply with. Little more. We weren't expecting it either, really. All this, yes, wrapped in the cellophane role of a wish of short-term financial instability in Spanish Radiotelevision that, however, have not been able - beyond the statement and to request with it the return one more year, because it is already repetitive, of the budget - to explain, justify, demonstrate or argue reasonably. Empty words, too much overwork and smoke, too much smoke, as always. The Spanish socialists do not give us clues about their plans for public television, but some have given us their Welsh socialist correspondents. The French Government, we read recently, is going to apply a drastic cut to public television in the neighbouring country, which will go from receiving 292 million euros in 2014 to 29 million euros in 2017; 263 million euros less in three years. We agree that that is to cut, slice, juggle and even transfer a public budget. In order to compensate for the guillotine, the French socialists are returning to the publicity to which Mr Rodríguez referred earlier. Like I said, back to that commercial in a few slots. And I wonder, will your Spanish colleagues want to copy them? The Spanish Broadcasting Corporation's budget for 2016 will face the required sufficiency of activities as important as the Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games and will do so without generating any deficit. Spanish Radio-television will continue to serve all its means and activities with the human, technical and economic resources that require its dimension as the first audiovisual operator of our country, and will do so, I stress it again, effectively managing an objective that in the years of the socialist government was not given the least attention. Just think that over the past three years the corporation has saved more than EUR 50 million in indirect costs that have not in any way affected production, but have contributed to devoting more resources to audiovisual content and, as I always say, because it is true and must be put into value, without a single redundancy. That's managing, because the other thing is talking about not shutting up. [[The Lord]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. I only recall that the budget of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation for the year 2016, as the whole of its activity, as it could not otherwise be, will be subject to democratic control by this Parliament, the Court of Auditors, the intervention of the State, the internal and external audit of the Corporation, the codes and rules of its own, as it has been happening until now without the need for unacceptable interferences that constitute a real ugliness like the one recently perpetrated by the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia, showing that those who are filled with their mouths talking about intrusions, submissives and oppressions, end up being the most totalitarian of all. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. We move on to the real investment annex. The Socialist Group has the floor for Mr Rangel to defend his amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u87	To establish a position, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. President. You know perfectly well, ladies and gentlemen, that the handling of the General State Budgets involves in a special way the whole House, all the parliamentary groups, in very important collective work. This year and because such work has had to be carried out in special circumstances because of the Government's willingness to present these General State Budgets, allow me to mention some thanks as spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Committee on Budgets. Firstly, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, who, thanks to his luggage and his parliamentary experience, has managed to make the procedure fluid and we could work with the utmost comfort on behalf of all the speakers in the various groups. [[Applauds]] Secondly, to the lawyers who have had to work hard in the management of the votes and in the advice they have offered to the members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to the advisers, to the technical cabinet and to the various spokespersons who have spoken. I want to stress that, in general, the relationship has been and is cordial, and in a work like ours personal relationships count and a lot. Politics is done by people and by people, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is a necessary but not sufficient condition. I would also like to stress that, unfortunately and because of the use and abuse of the absolute parliamentary majority of the People's Party, what should be dialogue, negotiation and pact, which enriches politics, have simply been monologues. We're seeing it these days, we've seen it today and, unfortunately, it's the rule of the house. Monologues, short lights only serve to please their own, to start magnificent and enthusiastic applause from the interventions that are carried out but little more. The economic and social situation in our country needs long lights that illuminate the agreement, the consensus, that allows us to find the most suitable way to get Spain and the Spaniards out of the crisis of truth, all of them, not just a few. They know that a great deal of effort is needed to modernize our productive fabric, to reindustrialize, to be more competitive, to be more innovative. In short, all this leads us to bet on education; the solution, ladies and gentlemen - I said it another time - is education, education and education. There is also a brutal deficit in the management of the territory, in the management of diversity because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Spain is diverse and plural and in that they do have an absolute zero in terms of its management, because not managing the territory well is also doing it a weak favor for the development of the economy and social cohesion. I don't know if his model of Spanish society is the one described by Aldous Huxley in A Happy World; ours is quite different, is to add the diverse because diverse does not mean unequal and sometimes the terms are confused. Various can add up; unequal is just what we don't want. Lack of dialogue has been seen here today, in those monologues I was commenting on. While a socialist spokesman intervened using his right to criticism, however harsh, a minister could not stand up and turn his back openly ignoring what was being said to him. [[Applauds]] That is not constructive, that is not pedagogical; if citizens see that they will have a reinforced concept of totally negative politics. And we, ladies and gentlemen, have to do pedagogy with our performance, our activity and our agreements, and then carry them out. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. In the game of politics one must know how to win and one must know how to lose. A victory or a defeat does not mean the end or the beginning of anything, it is something that we are finding ourselves on the road and we have to understand and work to bring forward the general interest that society demands of us. Some are wrong to win; the People's Party has shown it by abusing its absolute majority and that, ladies and gentlemen, is wrong to win. But I'm also afraid they have a bad loss, because bad loss means starting by threatening the citizenry with which, if there is an alternative that has the majority of the confidence of the citizenry, that is negative for Spain and for the exit of the crisis. [[Mrs. Martínez Saiz: And you.]] That's a bad loss and I'm very afraid, as one colleague has told me, that these budgets really mean a bad loss of prevention. I hope and hope that citizens will take good note of what is happening here and will freely decide also who has to govern collective affairs in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Real investment annex
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Rangel. As all groups give up positions, we now discuss the last point that is the state of income. In defence of amendments, Mr Larreina has the floor, first of all, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning of continuous thanks I would like to join in the acknowledgements made by the previous Socialist spokesman, as well as those of others about other Members of the House during the morning. Our parliamentary group, as you know because we have repeated it on several occasions, does not normally present amendments to the draft laws. In the case of the budgets, we only present three very specific amendments to the statement of revenue; they are three amendments which are somewhat more than symbolic, because they want to convey concepts which are important to us and at the same time we also want to make a kind of call for attention, mainly to the Members of the Group of the European People's Party, to reflect on those contributions that we make with our amendments. We have tabled three amendments concerning the statement of revenue which consist of two questions: firstly, to increase the collection of corporation tax, other capital and property taxes and VAT collection on domestic transactions; and, secondly, to reduce the share of the Basque Country Economic Concert in the same quantities and to reduce the contribution of the Navarra Economic Convention in the corresponding heading. In short, with these amendments which refer to this reduction of the quota we want to claim once again our sovereignty, the right of Euskal Herria to exercise his sovereignty and to decide on all areas affecting his citizenship. With these amendments, first of all, we withdraw our contribution to the structures of the State which we consider to be, on the one hand, unproductive and, on the other hand, directly undermine the sovereignty and right of Basque society to decide its future. That is why we propose to reduce by 8%, which is what we have to do with the quota and the economic agreement, to support the competences not assumed, such as the expenses of the Royal House, the Defence, the Foreign Office, the Citizens' Security and Prison Institutions, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, the Council of State, the General Council of the Judiciary and the Contingency Fund. We say that we are not going to contribute to the departure that belongs to us according to the convention and the economic concert. There we have a first call for attention, when at the same time we ask that tax collection be increased. That first touch we want to give is on one of the structural problems of the Spanish state, which will lead you to be a failed state, fraud and tax evasion. In this legislature they have lost four years to be able to solve a problem. This tax fraud, which is a social fraud, conditions the entire policy of his Government, as well as the future of his State and his citizenship. This is the first element we want to underline. The second - it is another call of attention that we give - is to denounce the social policy - rather antisocial - that this government has carried out during the four years of legislature and that it intends to prolong in the budgets of 2016. We take a very significant piece of information: what happened to the defence costs. At the time of social cuts, defence spending has increased by more than budgeted over this term by more than €8.7 billion - an increase of 35% - while social spending has been cut We believe it is very negative, but they continue to do so even in summer. [[education, health, active employment policies, pensions, etc.]] In the next decree they are going to bring to this House to pay the delayed extra pay of the officials have put 20 million euros more to buy ninety trucks for the army. I would have liked them to have used summers in this legislature as well to make expansions of spending to provide classrooms in schools, operating in hospitals, to increase widowhood pensions, for example, because they do not guarantee living with dignity; I would have liked them to have used summers to make decrees-laws of expansion of spending on these issues. All they have done is expand military spending, defence spending, and we consider it to be a social fraud and a very anti-social policy. There is another element behind this attitude that we want to denounce with our amendments: the policy of revolving doors. Why is this happening? It also happened with the previous, socialist Government, although State of income has to be acknowledged that to a lesser extent; then, in the last two years of the legislature, defence expenditure increased by 13% and 16% over the budgeted, while in this legislature, in 2012, which was the year of greatest cuts, military expenditure increased by 43.53 % over the budgeted. What's the explanation for this? The policy of rotating doors. Traditionally, throughout history there have been people who have moved from the military industry to the Government, from the Government to the military industry and have returned several times, conditioning the expenditure of the entire State. Right now there's around a 20 billion outstanding debt in military spending. This is totally antisocial; it goes against the interests of citizenship, social justice, the future of your State, because, as I said, those policies will lead you to be a failed State. This reaffirms once again to my party the need to claim our sovereignty, because in the end it will serve to improve the quality of life of citizens. With these amendments we would increase by EUR 1.3 billion the possibility of reinforcing social spending and the welfare state in Euskal Herria. As I said before, it is a denunciation of that anti-social policy of this Government. In short, with these amendments we refuse to participate in that anti-social policy, in that appalling military spending and in that policy of connivance with social fraud, a fraud that is important. Once again, the solution is that we exercise sovereignty and that from it we can contribute in solidarity to solving their problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. To defend his amendments, Mr Saura has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2016 draft budgets is over and the parliamentary term is over. Yesterday the National Institute of Statistics gave us new information, updated the data for the Spanish economy of this legislature This update showed that economic policy to the Government has had more negative consequences than we have been told so far. [[2011-2014]] For example, our country's gross domestic product in these years of the People's Party legislature has fallen by 30 billion euros, twice as much as we were told a few months ago. With this new data, public debt is not going to be 98.7% of GDP at the end of this year, as the government has told us; no. This year we will have a public debt of 100.3% of GDP. This is the public debt that we are going to have according to these new data from the National Institute of Statistics. I find it unacceptable for the Minister of Finance to tell the opposition groups that we do not believe in budgetary stability; the minister who has increased the public debt by 35 billion euros, including invoices in the drawers of the autonomous communities of the People's Party, especially those of the Valencian Community. It is 35 billion euros of a stroke for four years, but the Minister of Finance tells us that the Socialist Parliamentary Group does not believe in budgetary stability. Updated data from the National Statistical Institute also indicate that the 2014 deficit was close to 6% in relation to GDP. That means that there is an additional reason, as the INE explains to us, for which the deficit target will not be met in 2015. Therefore, this budget proposal for 2016 is still more Chinese tale, more wet paper, more political march and more electoral rally. There is one more reason - the INE said yesterday - not to meet the 2015 deficit target. As your ladies and gentlemen know, this means that next year if the People's Party governs, there will be more cuts in the welfare state and, in addition, a reduction in public investment, that is, a pro-cyclical fiscal policy. Next year, when the Spanish economy needs it, fiscal policy will not help growth but will withdraw it. We know that taxes have grown in this legislature by EUR 20 billion. All taxes have gone up. For this reason, it seems insulting to the workers to tell them that by the end of the year the IRPF will be lowered by 5 euros on average to the 10 million taxpayers who earn the least when they have raised all taxes and when the 293,000 taxpayers who earn the most will be saved on average 17,000 euros. This powerfully draws the attention of those taxpayers who earn less when they tell them that they have lowered their taxes and now pay less. That's 20 billion euros from a shot in a legislature. This is the updated information of the National Institute of Statistics of the entire People's Party legislature: less growth, more debt and more taxes. In addition, the National Statistical Institute says that the number of employees is 1.2 million less than in 2011. This was said yesterday by the National Institute of Statistics comparing 2011 with 2014. This is the situation, and now there are curves; those curves are neither in the budget nor in the official discourse. When the finance minister was talking here yesterday about growth, he didn't say that tailwind is pulling out of the Spanish economy. What are we meeting? In order to address this new situation, we find a debt fence that I mentioned earlier and a pro-cyclical fiscal policy that will not help growth but reduce it. In addition, during this parliamentary term, they have forgotten those permanent sources of growth - there are the budgets - and my colleagues have pointed out this throughout the appearances of the various ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a government that does not know how to manage political and territorial complexity. Here I want to make a call to the weak favor of the economy. The problem with the Spanish economy, ladies and gentlemen, is not politics, but we have a government that does not understand how to manage that plurality and complexity that has come to our country to stay. For example, the risk premium of our economy is growing in recent weeks above the Italian one and in addition that gap, that gap, is increasing as a result of the fact that there is a territorial problem that the Spanish Government does not know how to deal with, does not understand how to do so. That complexity must be managed. The other day Mr Rajoy said that the great problem, the great risk of the Spanish economy is politics. No, the great risk is not to understand the country in which one lives, that plurality that, as I say, has arrived to stay. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, our amendments to the state of income basically seek to increase the fight against fraud and to obtain more resources, in addition to the fact that real wealth contributes to our country, because it is not doing so. By the way, we know from the Commission's sources - they are denouncing it - that the Spanish Government wants to delay the agreement on the financial transaction tax, because it is also posture here. It says here in Parliament that it does want to see progress on this tax, but in the negotiation with the rest of the eleven countries it wants to delay the agreement until after the general elections. In short, our amendments aim to provide the public revenue system with EUR 11 billion. Indeed, we believe in budgetary stability, not like this government, which, I insist, has increased the debt by 350,000. Let no one tell me that the opposition groups do not believe in budgetary stability; I do not admit it from those who have no credibility, from the ranks of the People's Party and the Government, when they have increased it by 350,000. Where is it that you have to spend less than what you enter?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u92	Mr. Saura, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u93	I'm done, Mr. President. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we propose to increase revenues primarily in the fight against fraud and that those who have the most in our country should actually pay. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, so far in my speech I have given you a lot of bad news, but I will give you great news: this government has very few weeks left in the government. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura. Mr Macias has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last intervention in this budget debate and it seems to me that we in the Commission and now in plenary have a number of points to make. The first is of a personal nature and coincides with what has been said here. First of all, I would like to congratulate the President of the Commission, because I think he has done a great deal of work by directing the hard work of the multiple votes. Those who are not members of the Commission can already imagine that the hundreds of votes we are holding here with electronic help should be made in the Commission simply on the basis of the good observation or perception and accounting capacity of the President and the Commission's lawyers. I therefore express my thanks on behalf of my group; we have been very comfortable and have been able to do the work that was appropriate. I would also like to thank the President of the House. I want to extend not only to this debate but to the whole of this Parliament our perception, which has been a good Presidency; I think it is fair to say at this time, because we are already at the end of the debate. This is a debate that leaves us all dissatisfied because we repeat the same debates in the Commission and in plenary, in addition to the same votes. In spite of everything we have a conviction, that we have not been able - this is a mea guilt that must be taken together - to improve budgets, despite all the good personal contributions of all groups without exception. I know that from the first to the last of the majority Members know that these budgets, like all human works, are imperfect; surely they can claim that they are the best that could be done, but they are imperfect. Like any human work, not to achieve perfection, but to get close to it, it is always good to listen, debate, and pay attention to something - something - what the rest of the political groups say to incorporate it. Unfortunately, with one exception, it has not happened this year either, and it is very regrettable. I am aware that many Members of the majority group regret this. We do not do things right, ladies and gentlemen, if not all the good contributions of any group are used in this House, when they are things of common sense. My group was reviewing the amendments today and we saw one that was intended to correct a purely technical, gas-denomination error. An amendment that simply wanted to be called liquefied natural gas to liquefied natural gas has not even been taken into account. Something as simple as this has also not counted on the approval of the majority; this is not good for democracy or for the majority group itself because it gives an image of not wanting to attend to anything, of wanting to possess the whole truth, of wanting to dispense from the whole world. I believe that today the citizens do not demand this from us, but rather that we are able to engage in dialogue. This is the negative thing which, sadly, has to be put on the balance sheet of the budget debate right now. Ladies and gentlemen, these are budgets that we do not know if they will enter into force. My group is convinced that on 1 January there will be a very different new majority in this House, a new majority which fortunately will no longer be absolute. We would like this new majority to be much more sensitive than the current one to citizens' problems; above all, we would like this new majority to be more sensitive to what they represent. That is to say, I can think that I have a certain quota of reason, but I do not have it all; if people are to be better cared for, the good contributions of any of the Members of the House must be accepted. I wish this to be so, I wish it to all those who may be here in the next legislature. Of course, absolute majorities are the reflection of citizenship at a given time, they are legitimate. The use of absolute majority is totally legitimate, but a reflection must be made. If someone, who has a very important absolute majority, has the expectation of losing it with so much laziness, it is something, surely, has not been done entirely well. This is the summary; surely, a sad summary. In any case, our group has tried to bring the best of itself, as we have been doing for many years. In some budgets we have been heard and in others, like this, our opinion has not been told at all, but be sure that the people of Convergence - I also dare to speak on behalf of the people of Democratic Union - will continue to bet on dialogue, because it is the only way forward. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. For the People's Group, Mr De Olano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are finalizing the General Budgets of the State in Congress, and over the course of these weeks we have heard many criticisms not only of its content, but of the very fact of its processing and approval. We have not heard a single argument - or a single argument - about what advantages it would have for the Spanish economy not to approve them. We have not heard a single explanation of what would be the benefits for the labour market and for job creation that would delay your approval for six or seven months, as you all wish, gentlemen of the opposition. Do you know why we haven't heard them? Just because there aren't. You all know that approving these budgets is good for the economy and also for employment. Ladies and gentlemen, by way of example, I cannot see the benefits that public workers would not be able to enjoy in January of their first salary increase in five years. I cannot see what benefits it would have for R & D+i not being able to renew or sign new research agreements or contracts on 1 January 2016. I cannot see them, and you have not been able in your more than sixty speeches to mention even one of those benefits that Spain would enjoy not approving these budgets. On the contrary, we know the disastrous consequences of the PSOE fleeing in 2011, when Mr Zapatero and Mr Sánchez escaped without daring to leave in writing the legacy that bequeathed us, a country on the verge of rescue, in economic ruin and unemployment, with a lot of unemployment. [[Applauds]] Spain is not for frivolities, ladies and gentlemen. Unemployed Spaniards cannot afford to lose six months and the rate of job creation is slowing down, currently above 500,000 jobs per year; in addition, quality jobs are created in all autonomous communities and in all productive sectors. Our economy cannot stop now that we have reached a rate of economic growth above 3%. This Government and this parliamentary group will continue to carry out reforms until the last day, reforms by and for the Spaniards, and will not waste a single minute of their time in making electoral calculations. [[Applauds]] We leave that to you, us to continue working out of responsibility with the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, the revenue item in these budgets is a true reflection of economic recovery. It is thanks to the increased economic activity, the increase in the number of Spaniards who have a job, the greater number of companies and their higher turnover, the greater disposable income and the increase in domestic consumption; it is thanks to the greater competitiveness of our companies and the record figures of exports; it is thanks to all this that we see the increase in tax revenues planned for 2016, and this despite the fact that 80% of Spaniards today pay less IRPF than in 2011, and have already noticed it in their payrolls, their pensions and their retentions. Despite this significant tax reduction, tax revenues are increasing. This is demonstrated by the figures provided a few days ago by the Tax Agency for the first half of the year: an increase in VAT collection for SMEs by 11,2 % and also in corporate tax collection, which rises by 22 %. I also mention the IRPF, with a 16% increase in split professional payments in the first half of this year. Please note that I have spoken about SMEs and self-employed people, who account for 90% of our productive fabric. This means that today we have more economic activity and more employment. In short, we're recovering. Mr Saura, listening to you or Mr Sánchez criticising this government's income policy is a real sarcasm. You were here actively participating in the economic policy of the previous government, when you had the dubious honor of having achieved the worst results in almost a hundred years, with a fall of 70 billion euros in the collection. [[Applauds]] And now, they present a series of amendments to - they say - increase the collection through recipes that have little or nothing new and that coincide in no way casually with those proposed by the populist parties with which they not only share municipalities and autonomous communities, but also - apparently - economic recipes. It is frankly disturbing to see how Mr Sánchez endorses and shares the economic prescriptions of the extreme left, an economic policy that experience in other countries and in our environment shows us that they are useless, harmful and very painful for the citizens, which is why all analysts and all national and international institutions consider that the greatest danger to the Spanish economy is political instability and the return to the approved reforms, exactly what you - the Socialist Party - represent and their pacts with the extreme left. You are the greatest danger to the economy and to employment, because danger, ladies and gentlemen, is written with pe, with the pe of Peter, with the pe of Paul, with the pe of Podemos, with the pe of PSOE; in short, with the pe of populism. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds.- Several Members speak words that are not perceived.]] I shall now finish, Mr President, but first of all I would like to thank the Bureau of the Committee on Budgets, the lawyers, the members of the paper and, in particular, my colleagues, Matilde Asian González and Vicente Martínez-Pujalte, to whom we wish the best of luck in the future. The People's Parliamentary Group will certainly miss its magnificent work and even more its great human quality. [[Applauds]] Before I finish, I would like to address the Government. In Spain there has been a great change over the past four years: from being on the verge of rescue and being the greatest danger for the euro and even for the European Union itself, to being the fastest growing and most employment-creating country in our environment. This change is mainly the result of the efforts of the Spanish, but also - and it is worth acknowledging - of the reforms promoted by your Government, Mr President. In this regard, I sincerely believe - and I say this to you on behalf of the whole People's Parliamentary Group - that you can be legitimately proud, for you have done a great service to this country. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. De Olano. We'll vote in a minute. [[Pause]] Let's start voting, which are the finals of the State General Budgets Bill for 2016. The vote is not going to be as long as yesterday but it is going to be long, so please, attention and silence. Section 23, Agriculture, Food and Environment. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Firstly, we voted on Amendment 2841. [[Mr. Serrano Izko]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 127 against, 181 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u99	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Serrano's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 29 against, 276 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u100	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendments 1907 and 1908. [[Mr. Álvarez Sostres]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 16 against, 182 abstentions 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u101	They're rejected. The rest of Mr Álvarez Sostres' amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 115 against, 178 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u102	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendments 4158, 4192 to 4195, 4202, 4203 and 4223. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 123 against, 179 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u103	They're rejected. The rest of Mr Baldoví's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 128 against, 181 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u104	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 2537. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 124 against, 181 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u105	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Quevedo's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 134 against, 181 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u106	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 3351. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 131 against, 178 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u107	It's rejected. Mrs Fernández Davila's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 121 against, 179 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u108	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendments 2991, 2993, 3036, 3057, 3081, 3085, 3132, 3186, 3215, 3223, 3240 and 3248. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 133 against, 181 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u109	They're rejected. Amendments 3211 to 3213. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 39 against, 280 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u110	They're rejected. The rest of Mrs Jordà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 134 against, 179 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u111	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Firstly, Amendment No 2767. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 128 against, 180 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u112	It's rejected. Amendment 2770. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 115 against, 180 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u113	It's rejected. Amendment 2771. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 14 against, 281 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u114	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 125 against, 181 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u115	They're rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendments 2339, 2344 to 2346, 2360 to 2388 and 2391 to 2396. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 133 against, 179 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u116	They're rejected. Amendments 2349 to 2353. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 118 against, 179 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u117	They're rejected. Amendments 2389 and 2390. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 126 against, 180 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u118	They're rejected. Amendments 2397 to 2403 and 2405. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 116 against, 181 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u119	They're rejected. Amendment 2404. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 17 against, 280 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u120	It's rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 117 against, 179 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u121	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. Amendment 3954. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 26 against, 280 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u122	It's rejected. Amendments 3958, 3969, 3970, 3973, 4022, 4052, 4053 and 4055. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 123 against, 181 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u123	They're rejected. Remaining amendments by CiU. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 131 against, 180 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u124	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 1445, 1448 to 1450, 1455, 1459, 1461 to 1464, 1466 to 1468 and 1503 to 1508. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 131 against, 178 abstentions, 9
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u125	They're rejected. Amendments 1446, 1447, 1451-1454, 1456-1458, 1460, 1465, 1472-1474, 1479-1481, 1612-1631, 1694-1703 and 1719-1727. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 116 against, 179 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u126	They're rejected. Amendments 1492 to 1497. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 121 against, 179 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u127	They're rejected. Amendments 1577 and 1650. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 105 against, 181 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u128	They're rejected. Amendments 1587 to 1593. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 115 against, 180 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u129	They're rejected. Amendment 1632. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 106 against, 186 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u130	It's rejected. Amendments 1633 and 1634. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 114 against, 179 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u131	They're rejected. Amendments 1635 and 1636. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 107 against, 179 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u132	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 116 against, 181 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u133	They're rejected. Text of section 23 opinion. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour 184 against 142.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u134	The opinion was adopted. Section 27, Economy and Competitiveness. Amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 4151. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 118 against, 182 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u135	It's rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 116 against, 183 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u136	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 138 against, 179 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u137	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 135 against, 182 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u138	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 139 against, 180 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u139	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 139 against, 179 abstentions, 5
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u140	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2787. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 132 against, 180 abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u141	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 115 against, 179 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u142	They're rejected. Amendments of the Parliamentary Group IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: Plural Left. Firstly, Amendment No 2426. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 134 against, 180 abstentions 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u143	It's rejected. Rest of amendments to the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 123 against, 180 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u144	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. Amendment 4105. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 121 against, 181 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u145	It's rejected. Amendment 4114. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 119 against, 188 abstentions 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u146	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 132 against, 179 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u147	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 1783, 1786, 1791, 1797-1801, 1814-1827 and 1843. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 133 against, 181 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u148	They're rejected. Amendments 1787 to 1789. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 120 against, 182 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u149	They're rejected. Amendments 1811 and 1813. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 122 against, 180 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u150	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 120 against, 181 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u151	They're rejected. Text of the opinion, section 27. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 186 against, 139 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u152	The opinion was adopted. Section 18, Education, Culture and Sport. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 4150. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour 108 against 196; abstentions 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u153	It's rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendments 2822, 2829 and 2832. [[Mr. Serrano Izko]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 25 against, 181 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u154	They're rejected. Amendments 2825 and 2828. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 128 against, 181 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u155	They're rejected. Amendments 2826 and 2827. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 130 against, 181 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u156	They're rejected. Amendment 2831. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 122 against, 181 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u157	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Serrano's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 133 against, 180 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u158	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendments 1889 to 1891. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 132 against, 181 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u159	They're rejected. Amendments 1892, 1893, 1896 and 1899. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 111 against, 183 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u160	They're rejected. Amendment 1898. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 132 against, 179 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u161	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Álvarez Sostres' amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 119 against, 181 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u162	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendments 4155 to 4157, 4184, 4204, 4218, 4219, 4222 and 4226. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 126 against 181; abstentions 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u163	They're rejected. The rest of Mr Baldoví's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 135 against, 178 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u164	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendments 2505, 2511 and 2512. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 133 against, 188 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u165	They're rejected. Amendment 2510. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 42 against, 181 abstentions, 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u166	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Quevedo's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 141 against, 180 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u167	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 3327 to 3332. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 134 against, 180 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u168	They're rejected. Mrs Fernández Davila's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 126 against, 181 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u169	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendments 2866, 2982, 3005, 3134 and 3234. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 40 against, 181 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u170	They're rejected. Amendment 2867. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 38 against, 281 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u171	It's rejected. Amendments 2878 and 2879. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 139 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u172	They're rejected. Amendment 3035. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 129 against, 180 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u173	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mrs. Jordan and Roura]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 137 against, 178 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u174	They're rejected. Amendments of the Basque Parliamentary Group Amendment 243. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 135 against, 179 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u175	It's rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendments Nos. 2719, 2721 to 2724, 2730, 2731 and 2733. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 129 against, 181 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u176	They're rejected. Amendment 2728. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 25 against, 183 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u177	It's rejected. Amendment 2735. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 14 against, 181 abstentions, 122.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u178	It's rejected. Amendment 2736. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 112 against, 182 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u179	It's rejected. Amendment 2737. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 5 against, 181 abstentions, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u180	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the UPyD Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 115 against, 182 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u181	They're rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendments Nos. 2221 and 2245 to 2251. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 125 against, 181 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u182	They're rejected. Amendments 2233 to 2235 and 2253. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 22 against, 179 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u183	They're rejected. Amendments 2230, 2231, 2242, 2244, 2254-2263, 2276-2278, 2282, 2284-2289, 2291 and 2315-2320. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 121 against, 177 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u184	They're rejected. Amendment 2252. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 127 against, 178 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u185	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Plural Left Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 131 against, 177 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u186	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. Amendments 3821, 3834, 3926 to 3928, 3930 and 3931. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 34 against, 181 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u187	They're rejected. Amendment 3822. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 121 against, 190 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u188	It's rejected. Amendments 3858, 3868, 3870, 3878, 3879, 3881, 3883, 3888, 3892, 3933, 3934 and 3936. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 127 against, 179 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u189	They're rejected. Amendment 4141. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 24 against, 190 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u190	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 131 against, 180 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u191	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 1111, 1113, 1116, 1118, 1119, 1122, 1123, 1125, 1127, 1129 to 1132, 1134 to 1136, 1138, 1141, 1142, 1145 to 1150, 1172 to 1202, 1230 and 1261. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 133 against, 181 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u192	They're rejected. Amendments 1112, 1114, 1115, 1117, 1120, 1121, 1124, 1126, 1128, 1133, 1139, 1140, 1143, 1154, 1258-1260, 1262-1268, 1274-1276 and 1286-1296. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 121 against, 179 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u193	They're rejected. Amendments 1137, 1144, 1151 and 1152. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 122 against, 179 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u194	They're rejected. Amendments 1153. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 110 against, 179 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u195	It's rejected. Amendments 1157-1159 and 1161-1169. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 120 against, 180 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u196	They're rejected. Amendments 1170 and 1171. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 131 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u197	They're rejected. Amendments 1249 to 1253. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 122 against, 182 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u198	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 122 against, 180 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u199	They're rejected. Text of the opinion in section 18. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour 181 against 145.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u200	It was adopted. Section 16, Interior. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 37 against, 280 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u201	It's rejected. Amendment 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 37 against, 178 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u202	It's rejected. Amendments 7, 9, 10 and 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 27 against, 179 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u203	They're rejected. The rest of Mr Baldoví's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 126 against, 181 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u204	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendment 2996. [[Mrs. Jordan and Roura]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 129 against, 190 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u205	It's rejected. Amendment 3055. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 37 against, 278 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u206	It's rejected. The rest of the amendments by Mrs Jordà and Mrs Roura. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 133 against, 181 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u207	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. First, the 2687. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 128 against, 181 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u208	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the UPyD Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 16 against, 284 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u209	They're rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendment 2033. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 18 against, 180 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u210	It's rejected. Amendment 2035. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 29 against, 281 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u211	It's rejected. Amendment 2037. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 121 against, 181 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u212	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Plural Left Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 133 against, 178 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u213	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. Amendment 3647. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 118 against, 180 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u214	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour 135 against 181.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u215	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendment 574. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 131 against, 181 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u216	It's rejected. Amendments 585 to 588. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 122 against, 180 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u217	They're rejected. Amendments 617 to 619. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 119 against, 181 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u218	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 121 against, 180 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u219	They're rejected. Text of the opinion in section 16. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 180 against, 145 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u220	It was adopted. Section 26, Health, Social Services and Equality. Firstly, amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, 2850 and 2851. [[Mr. Serrano Izko]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 142 against, 181 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u221	They're rejected. The rest of Mr Serrano's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 40 against, 181 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u222	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 33 against, 185 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u223	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 36 against, 179 abstentions, 108.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u224	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 138 against 180; abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u225	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendments 2887, 2895 to 2897, 2900 and 2962. [[Mrs. Jordan and Roura]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 133 against, 187 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u226	They're rejected. Amendments 2893 and 2894. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 31 against, 287 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u227	They're rejected. The rest of Mrs Jordà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 31 against, 185 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u228	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendments 2777 and 2785. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 131 against, 180 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u229	They're rejected. Amendments 2779 and 2780. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 17 against, 180 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u230	They're rejected. Amendment 2786. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 119 against, 180 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u231	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the UPyD Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 24 against, 182 abstentions, 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u232	They're rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendment 2411. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 32 against, 181 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u233	It's rejected. Amendment 2425. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 123 against, 178 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u234	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Plural Left Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 129 against, 181 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u235	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. Amendments 3616, 4065 to 4068, 4078 to 4081, 4083 to 4090, 4093, 4094, 4097 and 4098. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 127 against, 180 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u236	They're rejected. Amendment 4076. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 26 against, 184 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u237	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Catalan Parliamentary Group in Ciu. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 34 against, 182 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u238	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 1734-1736, 1738, 1739, 1744, 1745, 1747, 1751, 1755, 1757, 1758, 1763, 1769, 1770 and 1782. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 123 against, 180 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u239	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 133 against, 181 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u240	They're rejected. Text of section 26 opinion. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 179 against, 144 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u241	It was adopted. Section 01, House of His Majesty the King. Amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 2857. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 20 against, 288 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u242	It's rejected. Amendment by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2644. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 16 against, 283 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u243	It's rejected. Amendment of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendment 1995. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 15 against, 288 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u244	It's rejected. Text of the opinion in section 01. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 280 against, 40 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u245	It was adopted. Section 02, General Courts. Amendment by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2645. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 19 against, 281 abstentions 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u246	It's rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. BLOCK VOTING OF THEIR AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 122 against, 179 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u247	They're rejected. Text of the opinion in section 02. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 287 against, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u248	It was adopted. Section 03, Court of Auditors. There are no amendments, so we voted on the text of the section 03 opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 282 against, 37 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u249	It was adopted. Section 04, Constitutional Court. There are no amendments, so we voted on the opinion in Section 04. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 286 against, 39 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u250	It was adopted. Section 05, Council of State, which does not have amendments. We shall vote on the text of the opinion in Section 05. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 279 against, 43 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u251	It was adopted. [[Rumors]] Section 08, General Council of the Judiciary. It has no amendments, so we are going to vote on the opinion, and I ask for silence so that we can concentrate. [[Laughter]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 278 against, 38 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u252	It was adopted. Section 31, Expenditures of various ministries. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 3322. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 24 against, 285 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u253	It's rejected. Mrs Fernández Davila's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 123 against, 180 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u254	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 2880. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 31 against, 186 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u255	It's rejected. The rest of Mrs Jordà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 31 against, 280 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u256	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2699. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 7 against, 283 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u257	It's rejected. Amendments 2704, 2709 and 2741. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 5 against, 294 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u258	They're rejected. Amendments 2773, 2774 and 2776. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 116 against, 182 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u259	They're rejected. Amendment 2775. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 20 against, 282 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u260	It's rejected. Amendment 2814. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 8 against, 290 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u261	It's rejected. Amendment 2816. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 5 against, 293 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u262	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour, 14 against, 281 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u263	They're rejected. Amendment of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendment 2000. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 15 against, 185 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u264	It's rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendment number 1844. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 116 against, 181 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u265	It's rejected. Text of section 31 opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 180 against, 139 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u266	It was adopted. Section 32, Other financial relations with territorial authorities. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 1918. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 17 against, 197 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u267	It's rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 33 against, 181 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u268	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 33 against, 180 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u269	They're rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendments 2443 to 2445. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320; 129; 179; 12 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u270	They're rejected. Rest of amendments to the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 14 against, 181 abstentions, 122.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u271	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union. Amendment 4129. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 131 against, 182 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u272	It's rejected. Amendment 4130. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 31 against, 181 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u273	It's rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 1845 and 1850. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 116 against, 179 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u274	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 117 against, 178 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u275	They're rejected. Text of the opinion in section 32. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour 179 against 146.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u276	It's approved. Section 33, Interterritorial Clearing Funds. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 1919. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 15 against, 194 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u277	It's rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 14 against, 181 abstentions, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u278	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2797. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 15 against, 179 abstentions, 123.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u279	It's rejected. Amendments 2809 and 2810. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 115 against, 180 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u280	They're rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 115 against, 180 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u281	They're rejected. Text of section 33 opinion. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 179 against, 145 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u282	It was adopted. Section 35, Contingency Fund. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2744. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 6 against, 291 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u283	It's rejected. Amendment 2812. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 5 against, 283 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u284	It's rejected. Text of section 35 opinion. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour 179 against 147.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u285	It was adopted. State trading companies, public business entities, foundations and other public bodies. Annex of real investments. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendments 1871 and 1872. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 106 against, 197 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u286	They're rejected. The rest of Mr Álvarez Sostres' amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 116 against, 182 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u287	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 127 against, 180 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u288	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 122 against, 181 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u289	They're rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Firstly, Amendments Nos 2431 to 2437. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 129 against, 181 abstentions, 9
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u290	They're rejected. Amendment 2450. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 17 against, 278 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u291	It's rejected. Amendments 2464 and 2465. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 119 against, 180 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u292	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 117 against, 181 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u293	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 973-976. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 118 against, 181 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u294	They're rejected. Amendment 977. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 109 against, 191 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u295	It's rejected. Amendment 978. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 128 against, 180 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u296	It's rejected. Amendments 980, 998, 999 and 1648. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 103 against, 195 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u297	They're rejected. Amendments 985-989 and 991. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 115 against, 185 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u298	They're rejected. Amendments 990, 992 and 993. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 104 against, 190 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u299	They're rejected. Amendments 1012 and 1013. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 118 against, 181 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u300	They're rejected. Amendments 1362, 1416-1418 and 1851. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 115 against, 181 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u301	They're rejected. Amendments 1499 to 1502. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 117 against, 181 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u302	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 115 against, 181 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u303	They're rejected. Text of the opinion of State trading companies, public business entities, foundations and other public bodies. Annex of real investments. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour 183 against 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u304	It was adopted. Statement of income. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on Amendment 2567. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 118 against, 180 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u305	It's rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 12 against, 288 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u306	They're rejected. Amendment 1852 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 117 against, 180 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u307	It's rejected. Text of the statement of income. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour 177 against 148.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u308	It was adopted. Amend all sections. Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment No 3494. [[Mrs. Fernández Davila]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 125 against, 184 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u309	It's rejected. Text of the opinion of the preamble. It has no amendments. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 181 against, 144 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u310	The draft Law on General State Budgets for the year 2016 is approved. He'll be sent to the Senate. [[Applauds]] I would like to inform the honourable Members that the plenary is suspended because we have to make some arrangements in the Chamber. We'll resume it at four and fifteen minutes. The meeting was suspended. It was three and fifty minutes in the afternoon. The meeting resumed at four and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u311	We continue with item II of the agenda, concerning the debate on the whole of the proposal for a reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community. Before we continue, I would like to say that the President and the Bureau and Speakers of Les Corts Valencianes are with us, whom we warmly greet here, thanking them for having travelled to witness this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] We are also accompanied, of course, by the three representatives of Les Corts Valencianes who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal, to whom, even more warmly, I also welcome on behalf of the whole House. To present his initiative, he first has the word don Francesc Xavier Ferri Fayos, of the Compromís Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of the Council, companies and companies of Les Corts, ladies and gentlemen, have had to spend four years for that reform of the Statute approved in the Valencian Parliament in 2011 to reach this House. This reform has gone a tortuous path full of delays, resignations and cowardice. Even four times this text has been withdrawn from the agenda of the plenary, an anti-democratic attitude that sought to avoid a debate that we believe is necessary and healthy. But here we are because Valencian society decided in the last elections to bet on a courageous attitude towards the permanent ill-treatment we suffer, an ill-treatment in the form of unjust financing, insufficient investment and political invisibility. Some, like my colleague Baldoví, try to explain to them what is happening in the Valencian country, some try to, but it seems that as much as we explain our discomfort there is an insurmountable wall that condemns us to have nothing change. Governments change, majorities change, but discrimination against Valencians remains. Maybe we haven't been clear enough. We must understand that in the marginalization we suffer rains on wet and injustices accumulate. We talk about autonomous financing, an outdated model; we are poor and we pay as rich, an anomaly that only happens in colonial regimes. We talk about debt, 15,315 million historical debt since 2002. We're talking about investments. How can they explain to the Valencians that we Valencians have had less than average investment and our population weight continuously and systematically? As I was saying, in this matter it rains on wet, and the Valencians know what happens when it rains on wet, both in the literal sense and in the figurative sense: nothing good. Without going further, near the building of Les Corts Valencianes we can still find memories of the great riada of 1957, signs that indicate the magnitude of the tragedy: so far the riada has arrived. On the shore we find similar memories: so far the swamp has arrived. Perhaps somewhere in this House we should hang the same sign as we came to say: so far the patience of the Valencians has arrived. So far has come the patience of those who are treated year after year as second-rate citizens. And it is that the Valencians and the Valencians did not find any explanation for the discrimination. It has happened with governments of the two main parties, sharing majorities, or with governments of different colors. How do we explain it? Maybe someone's letting go of that phrase so recurring that it doesn't matter the territories, that it matters the people. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that the Valencians are also people. Aren't they people who use underfunded public health and education? Or those who have to wait for public transport that doesn't arrive because we don't sign a program contract with our metropolitan areas? Are it not also people who remain in unemployment because without a Mediterranean freight corridor our economy is not as competitive as it could be? Or those who grow old waiting for the central park or the tunnel to be built in Valencia? Aren't they people who suffer the unelectrified line of Alicante-Elche? Or the lack of Gandia to Denia, the most studied route in history? Or those who die constantly on the N-340 road in the absence of alternatives between Castellón and Vinaròs? Aren't they people who see how their inner environment loses potential due to a lack of communication like the Xàtiva-Alcoy axis? Ladies and gentlemen, all these people need no more promises, they need fair investments. If today finally there is a vote in favour of this reform, Congress will be recognizing the injustice of insufficient investment in our territory. But that recognition must be accompanied by facts, solutions, and that is where we come to the problem. How can we vote in favour of a reform, of this reform, and approve on the same day budgets which do not comply with it? How can we qualify this paradox? Is that a mockery, an insult? You may think that we come here looking for a pat on the back, that our goal is to return home with the satisfaction that you have heard our protests. Do not be mistaken, we come to tell you that the Valencians have tired of paying and silence; we come to tell you that our patience has a limit; we come to tell you that when politicians shut up, people speak. Listen to the Valencian people and act accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u313	Thank you very much, Mr Ferri. I now give the floor to Mr Manuel Mata of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u314	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all come from somewhere and we come from the Valencian Community, as President Puig says: from the country of the Valencians. A country that is that great stranger by many of your ladies and gentlemen, because we rarely give the note to know what conditions we are in. We are in a perfect economic storm that can lead to our disappearance as an autonomous administration, to the disappearance of our powers in the municipalities and to our economic annihilation as a people. We have a debt of 40 billion euros. It is Spain's highest debt in relation to GDP; 40 billion euros are 8,000 euros per inhabitant, when twenty years ago, the same ones that the People's Party has ruled, each Valencian owed 653 euros. Think of each of the families in which there are four members, they owe 32,000; if there are five, 40,000. These are amounts that are not likely to be dealt with from reasonable budgets. We in 20 years have a deficit of investment linked to our population of 6,851 million euros. They think that every year that this House has drawn up budgets since 2000 every Valencian ceases to receive 600, 548, 600, 669 euros in investments. Today this House will take the decision that every Valencian ceases to have a state public investment of 350 euros. They are quantities and magnitudes that place us in a very complicated situation to get out of the crisis. What is regrettable is that this is the fourth time we have come here to try to explain to you the need for this reform. Four times it has been vetoed by this Parliament. And we have to remember that this is not a game of tahurs. It gives the impression that this has been done only because we are in an electoral campaign, because someone has wanted to say that the People's Party is now capable of taking on the discussion and handling of this parliamentary initiative. It should only be remembered that the spokesman appointed by the Valencian Courts barely two years ago is today in prison. These are things that happen in that community as complex as the Valencian Community. We were the community that had the third and fourth savings box. We have been one of the most avant-garde communities in the creation and employment of technological institutes. That's all gone. Moreover, on one of the occasions when a Member of the People's Party spoke in this rostrum to justify the postponement of this discussion, he told us that there would be no discussion because the Constitutional Court had already determined that this was political statements and that it had no virtuality. I do not know what paper the representative of the People's Party will have when he defends this initiative today, but think, ladies and gentlemen, and we would therefore like to apologize to both Andalusians and Catalans for the fact that a president we had dedicated himself to using precisely this provision of the Andalusian Statute and the Catalan Statute after having been approved by this House. In our land, ladies and gentlemen, we say that the word is l'home and the dona, I add. Even Joan Fuster wrote an article on that issue. The word given verbally binds the Valencians. I am sure that the majority groups and many others who are not will approve the consideration of this initiative. For the Valencian people they will have given their word, they will have given a word that will pass an electoral process, that will again have some Courts and that word will mean that this is being done and one day it will be approved in this Parliament. We just want not to be unequal among equals in this complex world, which is that of the autonomous state, in which each of us wants the best for our peoples, we want to be the same as the rest of the Spaniards. In twenty years we have moved 13 points away from national per capita income. We're poorer. What we want to assure you is that if we get more funding and more investments we will never do so so that there are faster cars or that painting boats come to the community. We had to have health in the same conditions as others, education in the same conditions and more access to work. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a quote from Benedetti: We have in our hands the color of our day. Let us choose the color. Let us the Valencians that, under conditions equal to the others, we can choose that color. We are convinced that the peoples who resign lose everything. As socialists and Valencians we do not resign ourselves to losing everything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Mata. I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Bellver of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u316	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to intervene in the Congress of Deputies to defend the reform of the Rules of Procedure, in this case the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community, a vindictive text while loyal to Spain, a text which reaffirms us in our identity as a people and as a historical nationality and which reflects the pride of the Valencians with regard to our model of State. It is a reform that does not pretend impossible, simply seeks that the investments of the State in the Valencian Community are equivalent to the weight of our population. Ladies and gentlemen, we Valencians have every right in the world to come here, to this House, to defend ourselves from budgetary discrimination, which we suffered with socialist governments, when they alluded to additional provisions similar to this to prioritize investments in the communities that they curiously ruled. That discrimination that led to a very significant loss of fundamental productive investment in our land is not going to lead us to look back with anger or grudge. What we bring here today, ladies and gentlemen, is an initiative conceived by the Valencian People's Party, designed in the general interest and which has led to the almost unanimous consensus of Les Corts Valencianes. However, they will allow me to take advantage of this intervention to make three statements that demonstrate the false, almost obsessive accusations, I would say, of certain groups that have certainly been carried out maliciously and systematically throughout recent times. The first is that left-wing governments have never cared about the investments and financing of the Valencian Community. It has certainly not been your priority. Some groups, as we have seen these days, have limited themselves to introducing trapping amendments, to try to deceive the Valencians, but the truth is that those who complain about this lack of investment are the ones who blocked them when they ruled and who gave us the most harmful and pernicious financing system we have ever had on our land. It is a system of ruinous autonomous financing, which they imposed with their applause, of which they today refuse without any indecentness and for which they have not even apologized. The second is what is the real cause of the financial situation of the community. On its basis is, without a doubt, that ruinous financial system that this House approved with the majority of leftists in 2009, but its nature does not come from spending more, but despite spending less, as recognized by the report of the experts elected by all the parliamentary groups represented in Les Corts, and as everyone today recognizes. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, from 2009 to 2015 the debt of the Valencian Community has increased from 16 billion to 40 billion, 24 billion euros in just six years. They are clear evidence of the lack of a lethal financing model for our land. The third, ladies and gentlemen, is that the PP has always been the first to defend the interests of the Valencians. We did it in its day, when we proposed this reform in Les Corts Valencianes and we do it today, here in Madrid, taking it into consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, these are our positions, of which we have not moved a millimeter, but there is no political pose when we are talking about investment and financing. There is no weakness when we are talking about putting people before the territories and there is no doubt when it comes to always acting in favour of the general interest. These have been the keys to economic recovery which, to the desperation of some, is already an undeniable reality. A reality that has allowed the Valencian Community to become one of the most important engines of the Spanish economy. This has not by chance been the case, as some people claim to see, because of the determined action of the People's Parliamentary Group and President Mariano Rajoy, which has allowed us to be in a much better situation today, as I said. That is why I, here today, would like to ask and congratulate, in this case, both the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government of President Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the statutory provision that we are submitting to you today is good for the Valencians, whom you also represent, and good for Spain. An equal Spain in rights and obligations, equal in opportunities, in efforts and in shared challenges is undoubtedly a stronger, more dynamic and more competitive Spain, but, above all, it is a more just and equitable nation, a better nation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I come here today to ask you for your vote in favour of the Valencian Community, to ask you for your vote in favour of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u317	Thank you very much, Mr Bellver. We shall proceed with the setting of positions by the groups. Firstly, and for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. From this throne a cordial and warm welcome to the president of Les Corts, to my vice president and to the whole Valencian delegation, who wants to be here today. Welcome. It's your house. Twenty-two years ago, in June 1993, thirteen years before the leader of a party that now goes out a lot in the media did the same in the 2006 campaign, some of us in Compromís today are running for the 1993 elections, so, naked Quiet, president, you see nothing. [[Show a sign]] We present ourselves in this way, with this poster, with this motto: Let them not leave us without anything, let them not leave us without nothing. [[The lady]] We made a video for that campaign, I saw it the other day, twenty years later, and in the video we re-claimed the railway connection with Europe: the Mediterranean corridor. The Valencians have an industry with a clear export vocation, we have an agriculture with a clear export vocation and twenty-two years later the corridor remains unfinished. Also then we demanded the contract-programme of metropolitan transport of Valencia, we have zero euros; twenty-two years later the video remains all present, the Mediterranean corridor remains unfinished and today, the People's Party has rejected all the amendments of Compromís and of all the opposition - it has only approved its own amendments - and they have approved the General Budgets of the State that allocate to the contract-programme of metropolitan communications 127 million euros to Madrid, 99 million to Barcelona and zero to Valencia, zero, and then we have to hear that the People's Party defends the interests of the Valencians. Zero, zero. They have governed the City of Valencia twenty-four years: zero; we have budgets that go to the VATM 170,000 euros and 36 to the Reina Sofia, two hundred times more; 500,000 euros to the Palau de les Arts and 9 million to the Teatro Real de Madrid; and in close proximity, 330 million to Madrid and one - only one - to Valencia. [[Instituto Valenciano de Arte Moderno]] And we are not against, on the contrary, what we want is the same treatment, and you have adopted budgets today that do not give us the same treatment. In the last fifteen years, the PP and the PSOE have ruled here and there always the PP, and we do not find a single budget in which the per capita investment has not been lower than the Spanish average, lower than the average not only in relation to our demography, not: lower. In 2012, 369 million less; in 2013, 495 million less; in 2014, 441 million less; in 2015, 427 million less; and in the latter, in which they have not yet approved, 301. More than 2 billion that have not been invested, that have not generated employment, that have not generated wealth. And then we have to hear the president and spokesman of the People's Party say that this reform is being debated to use it as a bold weapon against the PP. Can you have greater defachability? Can you have more cynicism? Jaume I, in the battle of Portopi, made a famous phrase, he said to his knights: 'Shame, knights, shame'. Shame, gentlemen, shame. Shame because this reform of the Statue, which would give us the investments according to the number of inhabitants, has been pending since March 2011 and they have ruled here, there and in the city hall, has never had as much power as theirs, but they have done nothing. You've delayed her three times. Shame on the billions lost. Shame because with all the power they've had they haven't got funding. Don't complain about what the socialists did, do something. They should have done so in this legislature, and they have not approved a new funding model for Valencians. Do not get involved in the flag of dignity: you have not approved anything. Shame of not having served the interests of the Valencian people, of having abandoned it. It has had to be the new government, the new president of Les Corts, who brought this debate here that you have not wanted to do in four years. What a difference, what a difference between Mr. Cotino and Mr. Morera! What a difference! Welcome to your vote today, but you're late. How many schools haven't been done because of you? How many roads?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u319	Go finish up, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u320	I'm finishing up. Today you have a chance to redeem yourself, at least this year, so we will see if you have a real will to do justice to the Valencians or today's vote is a farce or a paripé. Budgets now go to the Senate. From Compromís we challenge you to make the necessary amendments so that this reform can be implemented, so that it can be implemented now, so that the Valencians have investments according to the number of inhabitants. Do it, you can do it. Then we will firmly believe that they want to make a commitment to the Valencians. Your vote today that isn't just a photo, shouldn't be just a photo, because if they don't your vote today will be pure smoke or, as we Valencians say, canya smoke, botges smoke. And again they will have deceived the Valencians. Have shame, have decency. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u321	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u322	Very late to all and to all and a special greeting to the representatives of the Valencian Courts in the name of the Republicanism of the Catalan Countries. We finally discussed the proposal for the reform of the Statute of Valencian Autonomy that the Valencian Corts sent in 2011. The absolute majority of the People's Party in Les Corts has imposed four years of postponements for this debate. Obviously, a debate more interested in using financing as a bold weapon when in Madrid they did not send their own than in resolving the lack of financing and investment for the Valencia Country. Let us not be fooled, this reform is only a symbolic gesture, it gives no solution to the Spanish Government's lack of investment in the Valencia Country. This is, in fact, acknowledged by the statement of reasons itself when it states that the Constitutional Court, in its judgment on the Statute of Catalonia, states that the provisions of the Spanish Government's investment regulations do not bind the General Courts in drawing up the State's budgets. In other words, as much as the reform of the Statut d'Autonomia says that the investment of the State in the Valencia Country must be equivalent to the weight of its population in the total of the State, the Government will be able to ignore, will be able to literally do whatever it wants. However, this symbolic gesture must allow an important thing, which is to visualize an endemic problem. In the last fifteen General Budgets of the State, the per capita investment planned for the Valencià Country has always been below the average of the whole State. It is not punctual, it is repeated systematically every year, regardless of who is in La Moncloa and the Generalitat. If the population criterion laid down in the proposed reform since 2000 had been applied, the Spanish Government should have invested more than EUR 6.8 billion; EUR 6.8 billion could have been used to finance, for example, the works of the Mediterranean corridor, the García-Denia connection, the Xàtiva-Alcoi line, the unfolding of the N-332 as it passes through the Navy or the N-340 by the Baix Maestrat, for a few examples. We would have liked those who are voting in favour of this reform today to have been consistent and to have voted in favour of the amendments tabled by Esquerra Republicana for more than a decade; some amendments to finance the projects referred to and which would have made it possible to alleviate the discrimination that Valencià has suffered in the field of investment. State investment is only the tip of the iceberg of the Valencian financing problem, ladies and gentlemen, which is a unique case in the world. It is a territory with a per capita income below the average, which nevertheless provides the State with more taxes than it then receives in terms of spending and investment. This fact is confirmed even by the Minister of Finance himself, Mr Montoro, who showed a fiscal deficit of more than EUR 1.4 billion with the publication of his famous fiscal balances. It is therefore intolerable that the Valencia Country should be forced to contribute more than it receives when the funding system does not even cover expenditure on health and education. And even worse, instead of modifying the financing mechanism so that the taxes paid by Valencians can finance their basic services, the Spanish Government offers only loans. All this while forcing itself to incur a real deficit as long as the problem of financing is not solved. All this problem was also exposed by Esquerra Republicana during the reform of the Statut d'Autonomia in 2006, when we demanded that the financing be fixed in a bilateral commission based on the expenditure needs of the Generalitat and that a Valencian tax agency be set up to manage the collection of all taxes borne by Valencians and Valencians. Our amendments, of course, were also rejected by the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. The Valencians cannot wait any longer; this continued outburst has impoverished them and prevented them from having the resources to deal with the economic crisis and, of course, the social crisis with guarantees. The Valencià Country does not need the crumbs of an improvement of the investment, ladies and gentlemen, but it rightly demands - it claims, I repeat - a change in the financing that allows it to develop the social policies and the economic and investment policies that it needs. I'm done right at five minutes. As Ovidi Montllor said: they no longer feed us soft, now we want pa senser. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u323	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Lleonart.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u324	Thank you very much, Madam President. I welcome the delegation of representatives of Les Corts. Against what some have said or will say at some point, I am not here as a Valencian, but as a national deputy elected by a constituency, Valencia, but representing all the Spaniards. Having said that, I don't think we're going to surprise anyone if we say that in Spain we have a system of financing the disabled and unequal autonomous communities, which allocates investments in a differentiated way depending on one territory or another. What causes this? That there are people who by chance have been born in one autonomous community or another have greater resources than others. Thus, according to official data, the non-financial resources per inhabitant mean that the average per inhabitant living in autonomous communities of common system amounts to 2,763 euros, while the average per inhabitant living in communities with special regime - Basque Country and Navarre - amounts to 4,829 euros. My parliamentary group, UPyD, is totally against this type of inequality and totally in favour of a system of equitable financing for all Spaniards. However, we need to take into account or ask ourselves a number of questions before making decisions that, far from solving these specific problems, end up further complicating the situation, generating expectations that will be frustrated, unsatisfied, or generating alterations that are difficult to solve a posteriori in the financing system. To argue that because a number of autonomous communities, such as Catalonia or Andalusia, have included in their statutes additional provisions to ensure a permanent and stable volume of State investments in their respective territories, since the Valencian Community did not at the time wish to include in the new Statute clauses or forecasts that could unduly condition the State in the exercise of its powers and that therefore could be dubiously compatible with the Constitution, is not sufficient reason to request its amendment now. It seems to us to be a somewhat childish argument, inconsistent and respectful with the Valencians. On the other hand, if we take into account the legal basis 138 of the Constitutional Court's judgment of 28 June 2010 on the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, a modification such as that which is intended does not bind these General Courts in the exercise of their functions of examination, amendment and approval of the budgets, since the financial commitments formalized in the Statutes of Autonomy do not constitute a remedy which the State must make compulsory in the general budgets of each financial year. So, this change that we bring today would be a toast to the sun, a theoretical instrument that would not solve the problem for the rest of the Spaniards but not for the Valencians. Most new statutes and reform projects include seemingly innocuous clauses that condition State investments in each autonomous community. Although in reality it does not directly affect financing, it is again a unconstitutional invasion of state powers by these autonomous communities, which would also prevent in practice the simultaneous application of all of them, since these clauses allow the most favourable variable for each autonomous community, which defines it as if it were: weight on GDP, population, area, population dispersion, etc., so that the sum of what the State should invest in each would be greater than the total investment defined by the State, paying direct attention to what is supposed to be a federal State. These reforms, promoted by the PP and the PSOE at the autonomous level and endorsed by the PP and the PSOE on many occasions at the national level, involve a false system of bilateral negotiation of autonomous financing, purporting to elevate the autonomous communities as equal before the State. As has been said on several occasions in my parliamentary group, the President of the Government is no longer merely a coordinator of seventeen autonomous communities; now he is not even expected to coordinate, but they are seeking to negotiate in some way equally with the autonomous communities. Adopting this amendment, which would imply a sort of Autonomy Statute 2.0, would end the responsibility and fiscal equality for all Spaniards, widening the gap of inequality. In addition, we would launch completely confused messages and headlines for the electorate that would not solve the problem. Therefore, from our group we ask and come to demand an in-depth reform, an analysis of inequality: what produces it and the problems generated by the current autonomous system promoted by both the PP and the PSOE. We propose fiscal unity for Spain - as we defend it for Europe - to ensure equality between all Spaniards, regardless of the territory in which they are located. Therefore, we cannot do anything other than vote against the proposal to reform the first additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community in the terms in which it reaches us today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u325	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u326	Thank you, Madam President. Most honorable President of the Valencian Generalitat, most honorable President of the Valencian Corts, Honourable Vice President of the Valencian Generalitat, Honorable Spokesmen and Members of the Valencian Corts parliamentary groups, welcome this evening to the Congress of Deputies. The fifth one's over. After four shameful letters addressed by the previous Presidents of the Valencian Courts saying that they had not been given time to elect representatives to come and defend this amendment here, the fifth is over and finally comes to defend this amendment to the Statute of Valencian Autonomy. The parliamentary transit of Valencian self-government in this House throughout its history moves between tragedy and scorn. The sluggish we have experienced not too many minutes ago in one of the interventions that has taken place here - I say this with all due respect - and the tragedy we have experienced throughout history. The first time a draft Statute for the Valencia Country entered parliamentary procedure was during the Civil War, when this Parliament met in the Lonja and the City of Valencia. That first Statute did not even come to debate and for that we were not a historical community after the advent of democracy and the 1978 Constitution, while other communities could arrive and say 'I am here' and regain the self-government they had had during the Republic. When after the adoption of the Constitution came here the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencià Country, the result of an agreement in which many things were negotiated, we had the misfortune that in the middle of the process of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencià Country, an autonomous community that intended to be of the first category, those shots took place from the ceiling. Those shots from the roof were not only against Spanish democracy, but also against the processing of the Statute of Valencian Autonomy, which was curtailed; and, from there, also the rest of the autonomous statutes that were discussed. The tragedy has continued to accompany us. When the Generalitat of Catalonia and Andalusia tried to make their new reforms of the Statute - the second day - the People's Party and - allow me, ladies and gentlemen - the Socialist Party also saw that it was time for the reform of the Statute of Valencian Autonomy to mark a top from which no one else exceeded what was marked there. In that first processing they forgot something that later happened in other statutes of autonomy - Andalusia, Catalonia -, which was admitted and which the Constitutional Court gave valid. As has already been said by other speakers in this rostrum, the Constitutional Court has given good terms such as the one that is to be admitted by this House today. Today this House is finally going to accept this reform - despite the fact that some groups are voting against, others will vote in favour - but the Constitutional Court has said that these clauses are constitutional although they do not oblige the Government of Spain. Finally, the fifth is to be admitted; the fifth is to be won. However, with this clause, which is parallel to that which has other autonomous statutes - the Catalan with regard to GDP, the Andalusian with regard to the population - the financing problems of the Valencia Country, the Valencian Generalitat or the Valencian Community are not solved. They are not solved at all, because they are problems of another kind. They are a consequence of the shortfall in funding that we have had for many years; funding that has resulted in brutal indebtedness. It is not the time to give up why this debt has come, who has caused it, how many bills have been hidden, when, in which drawers, by whom, and how many millions have been wasted on major events that ultimately did not produce any benefit for the Valencians. No, they did not, Mrs Barberá, they did not produce it to the extent that they gave benefits to other people who are now prosecuted for certain cases and who have caused the shame of the Valencian people. [[Applauds]] That huge debt - which one party has become a historical debt - will have to be solved; if it is not this government - because this government has no will to solve the financing problems, not anymore of the Valencian country, but of the rest of the autonomy, the next government to come will have to solve that problem called historical debt. It will have to be resolved and it will have to be forgiven in some way, because next year, in 2016, the Valencian Generalitat will be ungovernable with the level of debt and debt repayment obligations it has. The second is to urgently correct the financial deficit of the Valencian Community, the problem of Valencian financing. A new funding system must be sought, it must be negotiated, agreed and agreed upon. The Government of the People's Party has not dared to do so during this parliamentary term, so in the next parliamentary term, with a Congress, with different General Courts, we will have to go to those negotiations and try to solve a problem that has been dragged away for many years and that has caused that historic debt to which I referred earlier. With this reform we will arrive at a situation in which there will be an obligation on the part of these General Courts - which approve the General Budgets of the State - to put investments for the Valencian Community according to their population. However, the Constitutional Court says that the Courts do not oblige themselves even if they agree to a law, and we are going to a tragedy that will also be discussed in the next item on the agenda. The next item is a reform of the Constitutional Court itself, which in this case has ruled that these Courts may go against what these Courts themselves approve with the rank of organic law. [[Applauds]] This is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, and it is tensioning this state to unsustainable limits. Either we agree definitively on the competitive distributions and the financial obligations that this House assumes and that it raises to the rank of law or what we will be doing, what kind of traps we will be doing when we adopt an organic law - such as the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community when we adopt this reform - that says that the investments that the State has to make through the General Budgets of the State have to go according to its population and it will be at the dawn of the government of turn to comply with it or not to comply with it. What has happened with this reform, ladies and gentlemen, is that when the Statutes of Andalusia and Catalonia incorporated these kinds of clauses the government then - whose president of the government sat to the left of the House - took the laws and applied them. It is true that the Spanish economy at the time worked better, that there was more money to spend it on investments and tried to respect those clauses. When the People's Party came to the Government, with the reality of the crisis and with the excuse that it could not be invested, it could not be spent and the balance between State income and expenditure had to be maintained, it was simply decreed from that point on that point that those clauses were systematically breached. Now the Valencian people, through their representatives who have come here, ask us to vote in favour of this draft reform of organic law, and it will not be dealt with in this legislature, but it will remain alive and it will be dealt with in the next legislature. However, we will not be able to put an end to the historic discrimination that we have had, nor will there be a firm and irremovable link between investment for the Valencian people as set out in this clause. Unfortunately, this will be the case and unfortunately we will perpetuate a system of autonomous financing and a deficit in investment that will criminalise and directly harm the Valencian people. The Valencian Generalitat has a very complicated role in the coming years and this Parliament will also have a very complicated role in the coming years. Either it is able among the political forces that exist to review the system of autonomous financing, or the autonomy itself, the self-government itself, will be virtually unsustainable, because the situation has reached an absolutely untenable limit. My group is committed to the fulfilment of the commitments made among all and to the negotiation of a new constitutional agreement, to re-establishing what the People's Party has turned into liquid for so long. My group wishes to end at last with some of the sluggishness that has led to certain positions and speeches that have been poured into this rostrum by the People's Party. The last spurt was the previous bill that practically alone brought the People's Parliamentary Group of the Valencian Courts to this House to amend the Sports Act and that forced the House's own parliamentary group to vote against what the People's Parliamentary Group of the Valencian Courts had brought here, because it was a spurt. Let us put an end to the spurts, win in dignity and, please, give us the Valencian people and the rest of the peoples of Spain what is rightfully ours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u327	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. For the Convergence and Union Group, first of all, on behalf of the Union, Mrs Surroca.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u328	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, we would like to extend a warm welcome to the President of the Valencian Generalitat and to the rest of the members of the Government who accompany him, as well as to the representatives of the Valencian Courts who have been here today. Since Unió we have always advocated that the will of the Parliament of Catalonia be respected and, on this occasion, for consistency, we will do exactly the same: we believe that the will of Les Corts Valencianas must be respected. Therefore, on that basis, we understand that the request for reform of the Statute and the position of Union will be consistent with that approach. Unlike the third additional provision of the Statut d'Autonomia de Catalunya, the proposal of Les Corts Valencianas links the investment of the State to its population and not to the contribution of total GDP. The third additional provision of the Statute, which was configured as a corrective mechanism for the historical low investment of the State in Catalonia, goes in another direction. The only thing we have to highlight and what we attach importance to here is that not everything is changing the laws, there must also be political will to comply with them. Probably now is not the time to recall the State's failure to comply with the third additional provision of the Statute - some spokesman who has preceded me in the use of the word has already made reference to this - from 2008 to 2013, in total more than €4 billion. The failure of the State to comply with Catalonia is an issue that has been repeatedly claimed, recalled and claimed by our parliamentary group, and in this case the Members of the Union insist on it. The lack of political will to comply with the laws must also be kept in mind, as we also have in mind the 2016 General State Budgets, which we have just dealt with, in which, with an investment of 10.7% in Catalonia, the third additional provision is still not complied with. In short, we insist that the Members of the Democratic Union will respect the decision of Les Corts Valencianas and, therefore, from the point of view of respect, we will support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u329	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. By the same group, representing Convergence, Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u330	Thank you very much, Madam President. Molt honorable president of the Valencian Generalitat, very honorable president and friend of Les Corts Valencianes, Enric Morera, commissioners of Les Corts Valencianes, this proposal to amend the Statute of Autonomy, approved in March 2011 and registered in the bulletin of the Courts on December 21, 2011, is discussed - not for the first time -, will be voted and processed today, September 16, 2015. There are some things, ladies and gentlemen, in this House that are being dealt with and dealt with slowly, such as the election of the new fourth vice president of the Congress of Deputies or the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community. I am looking forward to the intervention of the spokesman of the majority group, who for four times has argued to us why it was not feasible to proceed with this proposal for reform of the Statute of Autonomy and now I am convinced that, with boldness and flexible arguments, it will teach us why it is possible. This proposal proposes an investment according to the population of the Valencian Community for a period of seven years. Nothing to say. On behalf of my group, the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, our unconditional support. I do not want to discourage them, but something similar we push, try and achieve in the year 2006 through the third additional provision of our Statute of Autonomy that contemplates that for seven years the investment in Catalonia will correspond with the weight of Catalan GDP on the whole of Spanish GDP; then came the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2010 - already quoted - that it says that this is an interpretative mandate, and what happens is that the political will of those who present the budgets with absolute majority is not to interpret correctly what the General Courts themselves have approved. Ladies and gentlemen, something does not work well, something is out of our time in our constitutional system. Therefore, the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, the additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Andalusia or this new additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of the Valencian Community indicate an end of cycle in our constitutional system. We have to tell you, with total conviction, that this is why we have passed the screen. 17% of Catalan GDP, the Valencian population, the Andalusian population... all this is not home. The constitutional system is a system that requires an in-depth review and a new status, which is what we are proposing at the moment. We've passed the screen and we don't have confidence in these possibilities. This constitutional system, referred to by the commissioners of Les Corts Valencianes, has reminded me of Raimon's song: To my country the rain does not sap plume: / or plou poc or plou massa; / if plou poc is the same, / if plou massa is a disaster. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in the Valencià Country the right plume will arrive - and I could quote another Ampurdan poet but I would go too far in the poetic dimension - with this funding model that you propose. But I believe that today, with this debate on the model of autonomous financing - which, by the way, would have to have been reformed in this legislature in compliance with the deadlines for reform of the financing system but which has not been resolved, it has not responded to the problems of financing and which, to a large extent, partly but to a large extent, also explains why it should be screened -, plus the debate that will follow on the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which, ladies and gentlemen, is a reform that basically attempts, through the violation and violation of Title X of the Constitution, to modify a constitutional body by a non-constitutional body, should invite us to a certain realistic reflection on the moment we are at. It would also be good to recall that from the year 1812 until the penultimate Spanish Constitution in force, no Spanish Constitution has been modified; all of them have collapsed, either by suspension or by regime change or by return to a previous text. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, in short, that the so-called Spanish policy has not had the smell, has not had the right, has not had the criterion of political opportunity to face the constitutional reforms of the territorial system and in depth at the appropriate time. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with all the support but with the experience of what has been experienced with regard to the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, we will support you and, in addition to supporting you, we are convinced that the majority group, and the absolute majority of the People's Party at the Bureau, will have the same energy and will give the same impetus to the processing of this amendment of the Statute of Autonomy as to the processing of the amendment of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. If it is possible to amend an Organic Law of the Constitutional Court - a block of constitutionality - in a month and a week, I am convinced that those who are going to support this, too, will contemplate the entry into force before the end of this legislature. And in the meantime - with this, Madam President, I conclude - there is a great opportunity to demonstrate the fulfilment of the political will to invest according to the population and it is in the processing of the General Budgets of the State in the Senate, where we will see the political will of the Government and the majority to articulate...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u331	Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u332	To articulate the Mediterranean corridor and to make a policy of territorial balance and not a policy in which all roads lead to Madrid. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u333	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ábalos. Mr Ábalos Meco: Thank you, Madam President. Welcome, Mr President of the Valencian Community, President of Les Corts and of the Bureau, Valencian Members of Parliament. This is the image we have not been able to have in four years because the People's Party has not wanted it. Here we had President Fabra, but he came to applaud Rajoy in the debates of the State of the Nation, never came to defend the interests of our community. Four years, four years since the Consell de la Generalitat Valenciana, on 23 December 2010, approved this initiative - urgent procedure - and I wonder what the ordinary procedure would be like because it took four years to come here. At first it seemed urgent because in December he left the Council, passed through Les Corts and in April he was already in this House - Christmas through -; it seems that it was fast, but no longer touched, the deputies were not appointed and fell off the agenda. A year later, April 10, 2012, another failed attempt. Year and a half later, September 10, 2013, another failed attempt. This is the fourth time; it seems that the beat goes and the topic falls from the third is the beat. In short, the People's Party has boycotted this reform of the statute basically for the objectives it contained. In the Valencian Community all this debate served to make victimistic propaganda but nothing more, populism at the origin and lack of gallarity in this square to defend this project. Now, if you look at this picture that I have brought, because of what a picture is worth more than a thousand words - I would like it to be worth more than a thousand lies - you can see in this graph why in these four years it has not been possible to come this project that seeks that the Valencians have an allocation in the territorial investments of the General Budgets of the State according to the population and according to the national average, neither is it that the sky is asked, simply that. [[Mr Ábalos Meco shows a graph]] Well, how will you come up with such a project if this has been the reality of these four years; this has been the reality of these four years for the Valencians. It was impossible to come and ask what was quite the opposite. But it is already a few days before this House is dissolved and now it seems that there is placet so that we can take this into account, total, already it seems that it does not cost money. But this morning we voted on an amendment that we have singled out, wanted to single it out, to separate it from the consistency with this afternoon's debate and the People's Party voted against, so it makes no sense for us to vote against and in the proclamations to vote in favour, because the issue is not one of proclamations, as the saying goes: works are love and not good reasons, and this morning they had the opportunity to practice some good work. In short, this is the hypocrisy that this has. Finally, going to the content of the reform, I have already said what is intended to be done, which arises within seven years - it is not for life either - and is somehow a corrective instrument of the system of financial insufficiency that the Valencian Community has. This is absolutely fair and it is reasoned because historically the Valencian Community in its budgets has been mistreated, and here I bring you another graph. [[Mr Ábalos Meco shows another graph]] From the year 2000 until the budget that you will not be able to develop from 2016, we see the figures during the governments of Aznar and Rajoy, and those of the government of Zapatero that you have so criticized. I think it's clear, it's budget data; it's very clear. It is therefore true that the Valencian Community has been mistreated, but it is also true that not all governments have treated it equally. As can be seen here, not all governments have treated it the same, it is very easy to come here to disqualify everyone but these are the facts. The question gets worse for the Valencian Community if we add that in these budgets we have an absolutely unjust financing system and regrettable socio-economic indicators. The funding system is unfair because as the only community with a per capita income below the national average, we are net contributors to national wealth, to the maintenance of public administrations. We are the only community because there are communities with higher than average income that are net recipients and, of course, all the others that do not reach the national average income level, all are recipients. The only one that is below the rent and above receives less is the Valencian Community. It is a very unique fact, apart from another question, and it is that if in the budgets of the autonomous communities the expenditure on basic public services represents an average of 65.8%, that is, for each budget what is devoted to social expenditure basically, although it is very different depending on whether it is Navarre or Murcia, but the average is 65.8%, in the Valencian Community it is 74.1% of the expenditure of the budget dedicated only to basic public services. One could say: it is that these budgets are very social, because they are not social, because we have the paradox that this per capita expenditure on these public services in the Valencian Community is less than 128 euros per inhabitant per year than the national average. That is, we do not even get to provide the public service that is being provided in the rest of Spain. This means that Valencians have worse public services than the rest of the Spaniards, even contributing more than most Spaniards. Therefore, the Valencians do not complain about contributing to national wealth. We do not even ask to be remunerated as far as we contribute. No, because we're supportive. What we want is for us not to be discriminated against, for us not to be the least received, but to receive fairly. The 2016 budgets that the Government has presented, and that we have approved today, represent an investment of 8% for the Valencian Community. The Valencians represent almost 10%, we continue in the same line. The per capita investment of this budget is 175.68 euros per capita and the national average is 236.20 euros. We are far from reaching the national average. This discrimination - and I thank the spokesman of La Izquierda Plural for making that recognition to the president who was sitting on this left - was at least attempted to correct. This is the last graph that I show you and with which I bother you, although some I bother you more than others. [[Mr Ábalos Meco shows a new chart]] This is what José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero's government provided from 2008 to 2011, four budgets, four. Five Rajoy budgets. That is, the facts, and those he wants to do, do not come to half; nor to half. That's the reality. So some have made an effort and others have made none. However, the Valencian Community, ladies and gentlemen, is in an emergency situation and that is why this debate is very much in force. Unemployment in the Valencian Community is two points above the national average. The poverty risk of our population is 26.2%, which means that more than one in four Valencians are at risk of poverty. I have already said that per capita income is below the national average and so many more indicators with which I am not going to tire, but there is a fact that I am concerned and that there is not so much talk about it and that the levels of university students in my community are at 2.1% less than in the rest of Spain and this means future. And surely if this data that I give you is 2013 we would see it now with the cut in scholarships and the increase in university fees would be even worse. That is the future of the Valencian Community. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Valencian Generalitat has not been characterized by the good government in twenty years that the People's Party has been. Waste and systemic corruption have seriously affected our reputation, and the indolence of these governments to defend Valencian interests has to be added. The financial insufficiency, the discrimination in the territorialized investment of the General Budgets of the State, the waste and corruption that characterized the governments of the People's Party have drowned us and made the Valencian Community today an impossible project. Ladies and gentlemen, the Valencians and the Valencians are determined to move on to the lost years, the tainted years and open up a new time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u334	Mr. Abalos. Mr Ábalos Meco: We have been disrespectful and we demand respect. Ladies and gentlemen, we Valencians do not want to be or have more than the rest, but neither do we want to have less than anyone else. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u335	Thank you, Mr. Ábalos. For the People's Group, Mr. Camps.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u336	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all join those of the Presidency of the Chamber in welcoming the representatives of Les Corts Valencianes, the very excellent lord president of Les Corts, as well as the very honorable senior president of the Generalitat of the Valencian Community, I emphasize, of the Valencian Community. [[Applauds]] Neither Valencian nor Valencian countries nor Catalan countries, which exist only in the collective imagination of some. In legal and statutory terms, Valencian Community. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And if some gentlemen prefer in historical terms, Regne de Valencia. That's what my community is called. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to me to set out my group's position on the consideration of this proposal for a law which, as you know, emanates from the Valencian Courts and proposes a reform of the Statute of Autonomy of my community. I do, and Mr Mata, allow me to refer to you, not as a piece of paper, but as a proud Valencian and deeply honored to do so on behalf of the 185 Members of the People's Parliamentary Group who, as Spaniards, today all feel Valencian as well. That is why this parliamentary group has been, is and will be tremendously respectful of the procedural decisions emanating from any autonomous legislative chamber, whether we agree with their content or not. We, unlike others, do not qualify a priori a decision as good or bad depending on who its proposer is, and much less if this is an institution like the Valencian Courts. If this debate was postponed earlier, it was because it was so requested by those who could only ask for it, Les Corts Valencianes, because it was the Courts, ladies and gentlemen, who approved this rule which we are debating today, and it was up to them to determine when this debate should take place. Were suspensions requested? Yes, all of them justified and we have had occasions in this House to have debates on the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, while the memory of some is fragile, in addition to being selective, Mr Ábalos, you have taught a lot of pictures - namely who will have made them - but you have forgotten to say that the exercise in which the investment was closer to what we represent as a percentage of the Spanish population was with a government of the People's Party, with a government presided over by José María Aznar. You have forgotten to say so; a lot of picture and a lot of forgetfulness. [[Applauds]] By the way, since you have on many occasions appointed Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, you have also forgotten to say that it was the President who approved the worst financing model for the Valencian Community, which many of you voted for and which now seem so few to remember. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that this statutory reform was presented by a People's Party Council. This statutory reform was approved by autonomous courts with a majority of the People's Party and this statutory reform will be taken into consideration by this House with the favourable vote of the party that holds the majority, which, as you well know, is the People's Party. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u337	Mr. Campos, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u338	This proposal for a law that today has received from most of the groups represented in this Congress all kinds of parabens has in the People's Party its main driving force, despite some, and it is going to be the People's Party that, with its affirmative vote in this House, expresses to the clear its commitment to the majority feeling of the Valencians embodied in this proposal. We will do so as we have always done, with consistency and rigour, something that has been missing from some parliamentary group this afternoon. Rigor, ladies and gentlemen, because although at the heart of the proposal we are debating today is a legitimate aspiration, which is common to all of us, to all of us, ladies and gentlemen, as it is to guarantee a certain level or volume of State investment in the various autonomous communities, its cause and main foundation must be sought, as is stated in the explanatory statement itself, in the consolidation - I read textually - of an asymmetric model, in which some autonomous communities can, to the detriment of others, access to more skills, more funding, more investment or more infrastructure. That was the model, the socialist model, the unjust and insolidary model resulting from the decisions taken by the Government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero and which, fortunately, thanks to the policies of the Government of the People's Party, is now being corrected. Mr. Baldoví, Mediterranean broker should your lordship better choose the examples. [[Rumors]] The Mediterranean Corridor today is a reality in its execution because it has been launched by a People's Party Government, on the proposal of an autonomous Government at the time also chaired by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You, who are now breast-feeding the Mediterranean corridor, should remember the times you have voted against high speed in this House, once in a while, Mr Baldoví. Rigor, ladies and gentlemen, because this provision does not bind the General Courts in the exercise of their functions, the examination, the amendment and the approval of the General Budgets of the State, in contrast to what has already been said by others and as already stated by those who represented us in the Valencian Courts when this reform was approved. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there are no non-existent interpretations. The adoption, if any, of this rule, as already determined by the Constitutional Court, neither binds the State in the definition of its investment policy nor impairs the full freedom of these Courts to decide on the existence and amount of such investments. For this reason, the arguments of those who seek to build on the adoption of such a rule, any such rule, on the basis of an attempt to build - as I have heard from some of your ladies and gentlemen this afternoon - on the statutes of autonomy an additional financing system for investments that are distributed territorially, according to the criterion or variable that is more favourable at every moment to the interests of each community. No, ladies, no. Moreover, if rigor supports our positioning, coherence makes it even stronger. Throughout this parliamentary term we have seen as repeatedly different groups of the parliamentary opposition in these Courts trying - without success, let it be said - to demonstrate supposed inconsistencies within the People's Party based on non-existent differences between what was approved here by the People's Parliamentary Group and what was decided in Les Corts Valencianes. There have been a number of cheating proposals which sought to reflect this divergence; they have tried to do so, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, in all possible ways, by distorting what was adopted in the Valencian Courts, by voting in this House for proposals which voted against in those Courts but, on the contrary, none of these parliamentary tricks succeeded and today we are going to have the opportunity to pronounce ourselves unquestionably all the groups in this House on the consideration of a proposal from those Courts. The People's Parliamentary Group will be coherent once again. We will vote in favour of this consideration, as we already did in these Courts on the occasion of the adoption of the reform of the Statute of Andalusia, which has a provision equal to this one, there by November 2006. We will vote in favour of taking this proposal into consideration, as we did in the Valencian Courts in February 2011. We will vote today - being the main parliamentary group in this House and having the responsibility of the Government of Spain - what we voted in the past, when we were the main opposition group, also in these Courts. Not everyone can say the same, just because they haven't. There are those who change ideas and approaches depending on whether they are in the opposition or in the government; we do not. That is why I can end this speech today, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, by saying the same words that you spoke in this House on 2 November 2006 and which today are taking full effect: ladies and gentlemen, we will always be open to measures that are of clear benefit to people. We will always be stubbornly committed to protecting the democratic legality that emanates from the 1978 Constitution. We will defend in all circumstances the unity of the citizens, the equality of their rights and that co-responsibility that we call solidarity between one and the other Spaniards. This is our framework and this is our will for coexistence and understanding. These are our rules, which are summed up in one: With the People's Party it is possible to go anywhere within the constitutional path and nowhere outside it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. Camps. We bid farewell to the commissioners of the Valencian Courts and thank the presence of the President, the Bureau, spokespersons and the President of the Community, our colleague and dear friend, Ximo Puig, whom I see now and have not seen before. Thank you so much for coming. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause, standing up]] In five minutes we resume the plenary session. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u340	Points III and IV of the agenda, concerning the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Group in the Organic Congress, amending the Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October of the Constitutional Court, for the implementation of the resolutions of the Constitutional Court as a guarantee of the rule of law, and the agreement for the direct and single reading of this initiative, which are processed cumulatively, in accordance with what we have agreed on in the Board of Spokesmen. For the presentation of this initiative of the People's Group, I give the floor to Mr Rafael Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u341	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 1978 Constitution is the essential standard of coexistence which, drawn up by political consensus and backed by overwhelming social support, has been the greatest success in terms of the development, prosperity and freedoms of democratic Spain and since we have had historical memory. In addition, it has been a constitution that has served as a model and example for many others in Latin America and Eastern European countries who wanted to copy the transition to democracy from the Spanish model; an example of success and progress from peace and democratic pluralism. Our constitution is one of the most modern in Europe not only because it is one of the most recent in the continent, but because it knows how to bind modernity and tradition, since it is a norm that entangles its roots in the liberal Constitution of 1812 and that, encompassing elements of the one of 1931, manages to look in the mirror of the most advanced constitutions of Europe, such as the Italian and the German ones. Our framework of coexistence, based on the Constitution, has allowed for a political alternation in which minorities, whether nationalistic or not, have played a very important role, participating in the governance of this country regardless of whether it is a left or centre-right government. Spain is among the most decentralized countries in the world and this model of decentralization, which is not based on federalism or regionalism and yes on the affirmation of the state of autonomy, has been a very important milestone for its contribution to the involvement of the various territories, nationalities and regions of article 2 of the Constitution, and has been essential in the recovery and configuration of democracy of the nascent Spanish political regime of the Transition, overcoming the centralist system in force until then in Spain. If the Constitution of 1812 was known as the Mestiza, the Constitution of 1978 is the Constitution of the Agreement, because thanks to the synthesis of features it contains in its drafting it has promoted and enhanced this framework of coexistence that has made the Spaniards during the last almost forty years and regardless of the place of origin we have felt citizens and participants in this great common project that is the Spain of the twenty-first century, a vertebrate and European Spain. Therefore, talking about a reform of the same can only be asked if it is from agreement and consensus, seeking exclusively to improve our coexistence, looking towards the future and not as a way out of the internal problems of any political formation seeking to recover recipes that have already failed in the past. The Constitution guarantees the rule of law as an expression of popular will and this legality is based on national sovereignty, which resides in the Spanish people, a concept that is neither fractionable nor divisible. That is why it is not acceptable for a few people to try to decide what belongs to us all, and that is because they would be deciding what does not belong to them, taking possession of a power that is not attributable to them, because sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen, is intangible and indivisible. Either you wear it and you have it or you just don't have it, but you can't plot it, you can't split it, you can't cut it, you can't cut it, you can't tear it apart, you know, like some people claim. The Constitution, therefore, is the cornerstone of our rule of law, which underpins the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common homeland of all Spaniards; it guarantees the full autonomy of nationalities and regions and the solidarity between them, which must serve precisely to rebalance and to improve and reduce inequalities between them. In order to protect the Constitution, a constitutional justice system was adopted, with a Constitutional Court acting as an interpreter and defender of the Constitution, as well as guaranteeing the fundamental rights of the Spaniards. This legislation, which is the law we intend to amend today, has already been reformed by this House on a total of eight occasions. For example, Organic Law 5/1985, which repealed part of this same law through a proposal for a law of the Socialist Party, eliminates the previous remedy of unconstitutionality for organic laws and draft statutes of autonomy. Also the Organic Law 7/1999, which in turn amended the law so that the Constitutional Court could hear conflicts in defence of local autonomy. Or Organic Law 6/2007, which established a new regulation for the admission of amparo. And we have recently adopted in this House, ladies and gentlemen, another amendment promoting the reintroduction of the previous remedy of unconstitutionality for projects and proposals for reform of autonomous statutes by means of two proposals for legislation, one of which was promoted by the People's Parliamentary Group and the other by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that this law has been amended, nor is it the first time that it has been amended by a bill tabled by a parliamentary group in this House. Reforms on three of these occasions were made through legislative proposals, two by the Socialist Group. It is true that it would have been desirable for some of them, such as 1985, to have avoided it; thus the previous recourse for unconstitutionality in matters relating to the statutes of autonomy would not have been eliminated and we would have saved ourselves many of the muds that are coming today. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the reform contained in this initiative is consistent with the spirit of the law and will, above all, serve to bring the Constitutional Court into line with the shortcomings felt in recent years, giving it a number of powers in order to enforce its judgments, powers which it has so far lacked. Moreover, it is the reality that has shown us that the degree of non-compliance and disregard for its resolutions has gradually increased and, why not say so, this situation has occurred almost simultaneously with the development of the independence movement created in Catalonia, whose sole objective is to destroy Spain, but also that of other new parties that have recently arrived at the institutions and that have as leitmotiv the one that says that only the laws that one likes must be complied with. Thus, when the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen, requests in a judgment a positive action by a public authority and the latter responds with a conscious inactivity, there is non-compliance and contempt for its explicit refusal to comply with the provisions, either through the fraudulent omission of what is required or simply refusing to proceed with the repeal of the law or autonomous acts reprobated by the Constitutional Court. The cases are numerous and evident. First of all, the ruling on the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy, which is paradigmatic in relation to the predominant use of Catalan and the exclusion of Castilian as a vehicle language also in the territory of education, has led many parents to renounce their right to school their children in Castilian because of the pressure exerted every day by exclusionary and virulent nationalism that we have learned today in some newspapers that are blushing with shame. And other cases are the Catalan Veguerías Act, the suspension of the call for a referendum by the Generalitat on 9 September 2014 or the challenge of the National Transition Commissioner. Similarly, on 11 June last the Constitutional Court declared the unconstitutionality of the so-called process of citizen participation and this very week the Constitutional Court ordered the suspension of the planned allocation of resources that the Generalitat had agreed for the Catalan Tax Agency, while the Vice-President of the Generalitat, Mrs. Munté - take note of this, Mr. Hernando - said yesterday that she will maintain her plan to summon the necessary places in a clear disregard of the ruling of the Constitutional Court. In all these cases the Generalitat de Catalunya has put and is showing a single attitude: non-compliance as a response, contempt as conduct and institutional disloyalty as a flag. And all this to endorse a purported national affirmation based on the immoral victimism of false aggravation. Moreover, these contempts and non-compliances not only affect Catalonia, but they have transcendence for the rest of Spain; they have an impact on the equality of the Spanish before the law - not only of the Catalan citizens themselves, but of all others - and ultimately cannot be tolerated from the perspective of a rule of law that can be described as such, and of course they cannot and will not be tolerated by a Government that wants to maintain and defend the integrity of Spain and ensure respect for the principles that provide stability in the framework of coexistence between us by defending the principle of legality and equality of all citizens before the law. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the dissociation between the inability of the court to enforce the provisions of its judgments and the relevant political depth burden of many of its resolutions has led to an inconsistency which has not helped to strengthen the effectiveness of its judgments. For this reason we have brought this initiative to the House, taking into account the regulation in some countries of our environment, especially in the cases of Germany or Austria, where the Constitutional Court can explicitly determine in its judgments the most appropriate method of enforcement; or Italy, where the Constitutional Court can even impose a criminal sanction on those who have violated the Italian Constitution; or France, where the Constitutional Council has important enforcement powers. Following closely the models of comparative law cited above, we have articulated a proposal for a law that amends four articles of the Organic Law on the Functioning of the Constitutional Court with the aim of ensuring the full implementation of its judgments and rulings. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed measures and the mechanisms established are grouped into four parts. The first refers to assistance in the enforcement of court decisions by administrations and public authorities. The Constitutional Court may request the assistance of any government or public authority. The reform explicitly states that the decisions of the Constitutional Court will have the consideration of executive titles. This is a step forward with regard to the current situation, since giving this character to the rulings of the Constitutional Court will make a decisive contribution to facilitating the enforcement of its rulings, as is the case with the rest of the final rulings of our court order. The second part concerns personal notification to public authorities and employees. So far, ladies and gentlemen, the absence of a specific notifiable addressee made it more complex to demand compliance with the judgments. As a result of this reform, it ended up engaging in flags or collective responsibilities so as not to face criminal responsibilities. The third part specifically regulates the powers of the court. In the event of failure to comply with the resolution, the reform provides the court with the capacity to adopt some of the following coercive measures, which are similar to those already provided for in the administrative and litigation order. First, to impose a coercive fine on a person who fails to comply with the judgment; that is, no one will be released from contempt of the Constitutional Court's judgements for free. [[Applauds]] Secondly, to agree on the suspension in their duties of the authorities or public employees responsible for non-compliance. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is a reasoned decision on provisional and temporary suspension, not a disqualification, but which will certainly lead to the enforcement of judgments even if some do not want to. Thirdly, to agree on the replacement execution by the Government of the nation. And fourthly, to deduce the appropriate testimony to demand the criminal liability that may be incurred, which seems to be a logical correlation of the monetary fine. The fourth part of our bill, ladies and gentlemen, provides for urgent action to take the necessary measures to implement it. Its purpose is to prevent the passage of time from frustrating or hindering the proper execution of court judgements. Given the content of the proposal, the material opportunity of the reform, which is a simple reform and would require little clarification, is clearly being observed, but I will focus on the issue because of the sudden and surprising criticisms of the opposition to the process of this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the procedure chosen for its articulation, the one and urgent reading procedure, the first thing to say is that this system has been used on many occasions in the House. It is a procedure that allows the rules of Congress and is scrupulously respecting all the procedures envisaged; the doctrine on the same issued by the Constitutional Court itself reflects this. In addition, the Constitution itself, the Loreg and the Rules of Procedure of the House have been amended by this system on numerous occasions, and no one has opposed the single reading system. Ladies and gentlemen, it has also been shown that in qualifying the initiative the President of Congress acted in accordance with the previous regulations, despite the harassment to which he was subjected by the spokesmen in an infamous Bureau just a few days ago, and in use of the delegation powers that the Bureau conferred on him at the beginning of the parliamentary term. [[Rumors]] It is, ladies and gentlemen, in a letter from the legal services of the House, that by its strength it leaves some of you in a very bad place. But it is that the Constitutional Court's ruling of 13 December 2012 makes it clear that there is no matter barred from the single reading procedure, not even constitutional reform, how much more an organic law reform, which is what we are dealing with. How can you say that we have missed the reports of the Council of State or the General Council of the Judiciary? I would like you to tell me where it is explicit that you are required to reform the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court and introduce the previous remedy of unconstitutionality for reform of autonomous statutes when you did this by proposing a law and were able to do so without those reports. Now, however, we are told no. Where are those reports, ladies and gentlemen, when you present legislative initiatives here every Tuesday? They are never accompanied by any of those reports. Or do you intend to limit the legislative capacity of this parliamentary group in Congress? Do you think you are in any special category, greater or better than that of the Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group? [[Applauds]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure clearly state that an initiative can be dealt with through the single reading procedure when the simplicity of the wording allows it - and allows it, there are only four articles - and in our view it is absolutely essential in this case. Therefore, reforming the functioning of the Constitutional Court will serve, in our view, to respond to some of the challenges facing the Spanish nation and will also strengthen the work of the court, because weakness is never an argument of conviction in any area, and in the judiciary even less, and for this group it is not even an option, as we have been demonstrating. This initiative, which strengthens the rule of law by ensuring the effective judicial protection of the rights of all citizens and safeguarding the unity of Spain, has been described in Catalonia by Mr Mas as a threat. Well, it's not, ladies and gentlemen. Only those who seek to violate and violate the constitutional rights of Spain and the Spanish must feel threatened. [[Applauds]] And it is true that it represents a brake for those who have decided to launch themselves into the rupture through a movement that aggregates antagonistic ideologies with the sole objective of conquering power, covering their shames and attacking the unity of Spain. Mr Mas has been strongly told not in all languages, and yesterday I think they made it clear to him from the United States, but there is no worse deaf person than the one who does not want to hear. That is why it is also shocking that those who stand as an alternative to government are able to demonstrate in an insubstantial and pilgrim manner with regard to this transcendental initiative that is legislated for the extreme right of a party. Mr Sánchez, I regret that you are not here today, I understand that this is not much of your interest, but I should draw your attention to the fact that the opposition leader uses the same arguments to disqualify the PP that Mr Mas uses to qualify all those who are not part of his tribe or of the national independence movement. [[Applauds]] You have reacted to the creation of a nationalist and independentist movement as on other occasions, taking a profile, but in reality you are immersed in your own maze: it would not be too much, Mr Hernando, if the Socialist Party were as clear as we are this afternoon. In the face of the rupturist challenge and the defence of the Spanish nation, there are neither half inks nor third tracks, so it is urgent that you resolve your plot and clarify and make clear to the Spaniards that the solution to the problems that Spain creates to the independenceists does not consist in changes in the Constitution to create a new nation within our nation, but rather in resolving their internal problems as a preliminary step to solving the problems of the citizens. The problem is not that Mr. Sánchez has lost the compass or the GPS doesn't work, it's that he's about to lose the oremus. Ladies and gentlemen, the British thinker Ruskin claimed that the great nations write their autobiographies in three manuscripts: the book of facts, the book of words and the book of art. The book of events that have written Catalonia and the rest of Spain is that of a shared history, of great epics, of joys and sufferings shared from the origin of the country, which is Spain, the oldest in Europe. Since that founding moment, Catalonia is an essential constituent part of a broader political unity that has been and remains that of all, Spain. The Catalans have been deeply involved and have been protagonists in the political and economic governance of Spain, especially in recent years, since 1978; in fact, the Generalitat has received through more than two hundred royal decrees and one thousand four hundred agreements of collaboration the largest volume of transfers ever received by an autonomous community. In view of all this, what kind of delusion can lead someone to pretend to break our story? Because whoever breaks our history, ladies and gentlemen, breaks the present of our country and breaks Europe, which already in its founding treaties aspired to a union without borders. What's this about lifting barriers, ladies and gentlemen? No one has the right to ask anyone to renounce our book of art and to stop feeling the pride of belonging to the nation that counts among its children Cervantes, Lope de Vega, Calderón, Lorca, Machado, Juan Ramón Jiménez, Azorín, Ortega and Gasset, Velázquez, Goya, Ribera, Santa Teresa and so many others, because neither, and it would be very traumatic, can we renounce to be proud that among us there are geniuses like Gaudí, Dalí or Josep Pla. And if we are referring to the book of words, how is it possible that a language as Spanish as Catalan is used as an element of confrontation to corner, displace and preter the common language, which is also Catalan, a language spoken by more than 500 million people in the world? Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is not a trade issue or a tax balance issue. Spain is so much more than that. In Spain and in the territories that make up it, the common life of our parents, our grandparents and our ancestors unites us, as it will be, if it depends on us, that of our children, of our grandchildren and of the generations to come, who deserve to live and enjoy a vertebrate Spain, united and in peace. What arguments are outlined to make Spain miss without realizing that those who miss it are simply Catalonia, taking it out of the European Union and Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, Tarradellas, whom some despise so much, rightly said: Catalonia must be put to work more than ever to be strong and prosperous and to serve as an example for other peoples of Spain. That is Catalonia that the Catalans need and that we need the rest of the Spaniards to make this nation bigger, the great Catalonia in Spain big and in Europe big. For this reason, and in keeping with our principles, today we bring this initiative to this House to strengthen our rule of law, to strengthen our Constitutional Court, to strengthen, ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution, in short, to strengthen us all even more and to guarantee our future and that of our children in peace, democracy and freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u342	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. He has requested the use of the turn against the Socialist Group and therefore has the floor on behalf of that group, Mr Antonio Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u343	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, why are we here, eleven days after the elections in Catalonia, addressing an express reform of the Constitutional Court? We are here because the People's Party and the Government, without complexes, have decided to implement a basic institution of our constitutional architecture in full election campaign in Catalonia. And what does a Parliament do about a mature democracy like the Spanish one debating a month before the Chambers dissolve the transformation of the legal nature of the Constitutional Court? The answer is that Parliament has been put by the absolute majority of the People's Party and with the connivance of the majority of the House Presidency in the service of the People's Party election campaign committee. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, how could you not have had in three years and nine months to put forward the constitutional court's metamorphosis and want to do so in thirty days? Because neither you nor the Constitutional Court nor any institution have so far seen the need to do this because this is not necessary. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why have you not sought consensus, even a prior dialogue to reform these characteristics? The answer is because this is what it looks like. This is, as has been shown here today, an electoral act; an electoral act that you did on 1 September and, as a demonstration, you brought here your electoral candidate in Catalonia, Mr Albiol, who made a deep constitutional reflection. [[Applauds]] He said, "The joke is over." A phrase more peculiar to an American West Hall than to a legislative chamber. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have not sought consensus on this issue because neither does it nor does it come to you. They neither wanted it nor needed it, because when one is looking for their electoral interests, one wants to stay more alone than one, which is what is going to happen to them here today. You have had plenty of time during this legislature to do this, because you citizens have been given a sufficient majority. They have the longest legislature of democracy and the means that citizens gave them, but, instead of honoring that democracy by bringing in bills, they have preferred to rule by decree and on the basis of express laws such as this. [[Applauds]] That's why it's more surprising if it fits what we're being asked for. We are asked that today, 16 September, when only one month before the dissolution of the Courts, we undertake the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. According to its authors - Mr Hernando has just told us - its objective is to extend the powers available to the Constitutional Court to enforce its judgments. In particular, they wish to entrust the court with a new legal duty, that of ensuring ex officio and at the request of the party for the effective implementation of their decisions, adopting the necessary enforcement measures or seeking the help of other authorities. What is new is that they have decided that the court can make a substitute execution of their decisions or even agree to suspend the functions of authorities and officials. On 11 August 1980 the Constitutional Court delivered its first judgement. Since then there have been thousands - last year 215 and 305 cars - and so far no one has raised the need for the reform that you bring here today, because everyone understands that the court has sufficient instruments to enforce its sentences. No constitutionalist, no institution has missed what you propose today, over these thirty-five years. Furthermore, do you want to tell me that all the groups in the House, the 350 Members, for thirty-five years we have been irresponsible because we have not proposed this which you bring here today? [[Applauds]] No, ladies, no, we haven't been irresponsible. The truth is, the only truth is that the only objective of this initiative is to hold a rally, a rally in the Congress of Deputies. The protagonist of this rally is Mr. Albiol and the banner of it is: The joke is over. This is the objective of this initiative. Look, neither in the constitutional debates, nor in the debates on reforming the Constitutional Court Act was the need for this initiative ever raised, nor in the proposals that have been presented here over thirty-five years. In the most classic work of constitutionalism of 1978, which is Commentary to the Constitution, directed by Óscar Alzaga, we dedicate Volume XII to the Constitutional Court, more than 400 pages dedicated to the Constitutional Court, not a single mention of the need to give an added competence of this nature to the Constitutional Court, but not even a recommendation of lege ferenda. Under no circumstances does any constitutionalist, until now - let us see if Mr Hernando can now convince us otherwise - and that is because since the adoption of his Organic Law section 92 has been sufficient. The court has the power to order in its judgement or in subsequent acts who has to execute it and, where appropriate, to resolve the consequences of the execution in the event of non-compliance or non-compliance with the decision. It has the power to declare null and void decisions which contravene decisions handed down in the exercise of its jurisdiction or on the occasion of the execution of such decisions. What this proposal envisages, therefore, is not to give the court the means to comply with its judgments - those already have them - but to extend its powers, and that is really what you want to do, to extend the powers of the Constitutional Court by granting it a sanctioning power of a different nature from the sanctioning power it currently has, and with this what you actually achieve is what you want: to change the legal nature of the Constitutional Court and to make it different from what our constituent envisaged for it. Some representatives of the Government and the People's Party - today we have seen it - say that this capacity is already held by other constitutional courts in our environment, for example - said Mr Hernando - the Austrian or the German. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes, they do, of course, but it is that in the Austrian Constitution and in the German Constitution this is provided for, while in ours that is not foreseen, and that is the question, that these constitutional courts were designed in that sense in their respective constitutions. For example, the German Constitutional Court, which is also part of the judiciary in accordance with its Basic Law, can separate the Federal President from office before the Federal Constitutional Court for serious and wilful breach of the Basic Law, certainly at the request of the Bundesrat and the Bundestag - stay with this because it is important for what I will then say - and has many other powers that have nothing to do with those of the Spanish Constitutional Court despite the fact that the Spanish Constitutional Court, as you know, does take its spirit from the German Constitutional Court. The Austrian Constitutional Court has other powers that have nothing to do with it, but also because it says so in its own Constitution: it knows of the claims of property responsibility, of the objections of the election of federal president, of the regional governments and of the municipal bodies and even of the deprivation of the minutes of the deputy. Something to do with the Spanish Constitutional Court? No, nothing, Mr. Hernando. Therefore, I am not worthy of the example of the Austrian Constitutional Court or the German Constitutional Court. The Spanish Constitution does not attribute this to the Constitutional Court surely because the parents of the Constitution had a sad memory of what had been the Court of Guarantees of the Republic. [[Applauds]] After thirty-five years of Constitutional Court, do you really believe that a single party can change the institutional architecture provided for in our Constitution in thirty days? Ladies and gentlemen, redefining at this stage of the legislature the legal nature of the Constitutional Court, Minister, is not an irresponsibility, it is a danger. With the existing model, the court exercises its functions as an interpreter of the constitutional text, taking account exclusively of the parameter of jurisdiction, even being in a moderating, inclusive, quasi-arbitrary position. The court, in order to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction between the State and the autonomous communities, already has the power to enforce judgements and decisions. If we've seen it forty-eight hours ago! We've seen it! And it hasn't been through an execution procedure. It has been through a simple measure: Article 4 of the Tax Agency Act approved by the Catalan Parliament has been suspended. Our constitutional model, unless you want to change the Constitution in this sense, does not allow our Constitutional Court to have the same powers as the Austrian Constitutional Court and the German Constitutional Court, to be put on the same footing. You want to solve by disfigurement of the Constitutional Court a problem that does not belong to the field of procedural enforcement of judgments, but to the much more intricate, irregular and political conflicts between institutions. We have varied historical backgrounds in Spain and outside Spain that demonstrate the desirability of resolving certain competitive confrontations between institutions in the appropriate field and not through the punitive enforcement of sentences made by constitutional courts. There is a recent ruling from the Constitutional Court - you mentioned it, Mr Hernando -. It determines the unconstitutionality of the declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on sovereignty and the right to decide by the people of Catalonia and establishes in its legal basis 4.(b) the following: 'The Constitution does not address or can expressly address all the problems that may arise in the constitutional order, in particular those arising from the will of a part of the State to alter its legal status. Such problems cannot be resolved by this court, whose function is to ensure strict compliance with the Constitution.' And the Constitutional follows: 'Therefore, the public authorities and, in particular, the territorial powers that make up our autonomous state are those who are called to solve the problems that arise in this area through dialogue and cooperation'. Look at the paradoxes. The Constitutional Court gives reason to the Government when it appeals, declares unconstitutionality, but in order to resolve the substantive problem it recommends dialogue, which is what has been lacking all this time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not disfigure the nature of the Constitutional Court, do not put it under unbearable pressure. No one has asked from the doctrine for a reform of these characteristics. A few years ago, the University of La Rioja conducted a survey of eight professors of constitutional and administrative law, six of whom had been judges of the Constitutional Court, asking them what they would reform the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. No mention was made of article 92. However, they all agreed on the need for the Constitutional Court to be consulted before a hypothetical reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, taking into account its initiative and opinion. And I ask myself, listen, have you spoken to the Constitutional Court before you presented this? Because according to the media it turns out that the Constitutional Court has learned about this through the media, through the newspapers. [[Rumors]] Hey, isn't it embarrassing for any of these institutions? But man, how can they not do this to the Constitutional Court if they have presented this initiative precisely through a bill to avoid the report of the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary? It would be irritating, illusory if you had consulted the Constitutional Court with a reform of the law affecting the Constitutional Court. It's too much to ask, I understand. [[Applauds]] But this reform, if it is to be carried out in these terms, will also cause enormous problems of interpretation and implementation. From a technical point of view, it's very bad, honestly I'm telling you. We've heard they've been working on it for eight months. Hey, to take eight months working on it, what's gotten into them, huh? Very little. Besides, how come they've been working on it for eight months? And when two months ago we reformed the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court to recover the previous appeal that Mr. Hernando spoke of, why did they hide it from us? They've been in this for eight months, and they've been hiding them from us? They tricked us then or they fooled us now by saying that it's been eight months since they improvised it in eight days before the election. What are we left with, gentlemen? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] In any case, this is an improvisation, yes, Your Honor, it is clear. It is so improvised that on the same day and half an hour after recording it they had to put in a correction of errors because it had a mistake, but that is not the most serious thing, ladies and gentlemen, I recognize that that is not the most serious thing. The problem is not just a lack of legislative technique. The fundamental issue is one of substance. Look, with the literality of what is provided for in 92.4(b), which seems to me to be fundamental, the Constitutional Court could from now on suspend the functions of the president of an autonomous community or the president of the Government if it considers that there is even a partial breach of a ruling of the Constitutional Court. You've understood what I've told you, haven't you? To suspend the functions of a community president or the President of the Government himself. Good. You want to give the Constitutional Court a real power to suspend the President of the Government without impeachment and without previous censorship of the General Courts. Do you realize what you're doing, ladies and gentlemen? Do you know how serious this is? It is impossible to combine what you want to do in this law with our constitutional system, because the President of the Government is appointed and elected through the investiture in the General Courts and ceases through the motion of censure in the General Courts. It is therefore not possible to do so through a decision of the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] This is the barbarity they're doing. Too many questions and no clarification from Mr Hernando. Who can review these Constitutional Court decisions? They don't say that. What remedies can the suspended authority make in the exercise of its functions and to whom? They don't know, when would the Constitutional Court make these decisions? It doesn't count. How would the Constitutional Court choose between the different possibilities set out in article 92? It's not contemplating. The project is so technically flawed that it does not determine the circumstances in which it must apply one or other enforcement measure of article 92. And how does the Constitutional Court work, let's see? For reasons of opportunity? Like it's a purely political organ? Do you really want the Constitutional Court to act that way? In 2002, the president of the Constitutional Court, Don Manuel Jiménez de Parga, wrote an article in the ABC on the occasion that some were asking the Constitutional Court to make it possible for that body to illegalize political parties. Jiménez de Parga said: It is not possible for an organic law to assign to the Constitutional Court powers that the Constitution itself has expressly conferred on other constitutional bodies. Nor will it be possible for constitutional jurisdiction to be denaturalized in this way. Professor Jiménez de Parga continues by saying: The first objection that can be raised is that it is such a radical innovation that it entails and would seriously affect the nature of constitutional jurisdiction, as designed in the Constitution. The principle of exclusive jurisdiction under article 117.3 of the Spanish Constitution would be violated, since the power to try and enforce the case was vested only in the judiciary, so that the intervention of the Constitutional Court could only be made on the basis of a preliminary judicial ruling and always on a subsidiary basis. Everything Jiménez de Parga said in 2002 about that possibility of granting those powers to the Constitutional Court is now applicable to what you want to do with this reform. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have this sitting today because there is a widespread conviction that the rulings of the Constitutional Court are not being complied with. That is not the case, nor can it be by the very nature of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that when it makes a judgment declaring unconstitutional that rule automatically comes out of the legal system. That's what Kelsen called negative legislation. There is nothing more executive than a ruling by the Constitutional Court. Their judgements are fully enforceable without the need for an enforcement procedure. So don't fool anyone. This proposal has only one objective: to scratch votes by taking advantage of the independence challenge of some political formations and authorities in Catalonia. They want to use 27 September and what can happen later for their own electoral interests and only for their electoral interests. In this regard, this initiative is similar to the one of 2003. It will be remembered by some who were here as early as 2003. You in 2003 and just a month before the Chambers were dissolved, wanted to reform through the Senate Arbitration Act the Criminal Code to put the president of an autonomous community who illegally convened a referendum in prison. Do you remember? That rule which they promoted in the pre-election campaign against the lehendakari Ibarretxe was declared unconstitutional following an appeal from my group, but had previously been repealed by a socialist government. If this one goes on, it'll happen exactly the same. [[Applauds]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, you want to repeat the strategy, you want to do something very serious again in Constitutional Law, very serious in Criminal Law, which is an ad hoc rule. Nothing more ad hoc than the speech made by Mr Hernando in this rostrum, without being conscious, or being conscious, but importing them very little, that the tension to which they are going to submit to the institutions, to the Constitutional Court, is terrible. It is harmful to the rule of law, to the State and to democracy itself. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I am absolutely convinced that what you are claiming is absolutely inefficient to solve the fundamental problem, as inefficient as the political inaction of the Government for almost four years. On the contrary, the only effect that the adoption of this law can have is the strengthening of the independenceist positions in Catalonia. The problem of coexistence between Catalonia and the rest of Spain and the crisis generated by the current Government of the Generalitat with actions that seek to undermine the law and that are therefore incompatible with democracy has a political background wrapped in resolutions of undoubted legal significance, but these resolutions of undoubted legal significance can already be short-circuited by the Constitutional Court. He's doing it, as we've seen, but you don't settle for it. You want to force the role of the Constitutional Court by changing its nature and that is incompatible with the Spanish Constitution. If you don't reform it, you can't do this, ladies and gentlemen. The United States Supreme Court has a doctrine, which is that of political issues, those issues on which the court decided not to rule because they constituted pure political disputes, conflicts that cannot be resolved simply by application of legal rules, but, on the contrary, their jurisdictional settlement would contribute nothing to the political settlement and could cause serious harm to justice. It was done by the United States Supreme Court to preserve the institutionality of the court itself. What can be achieved with this law and with this reform, if it goes forward, is precisely the opposite with our Constitutional Court. That is why Rubio Llorente said in these days that this law could place on the Constitutional Court a political burden that will eventually crush it. The only truth of this initiative, the ultimate reason for it, in addition to being electoral, highlights the political passivity of a president of the Government who, unable to propose solutions to a serious crisis of coexistence, decides to act at the last minute to unload his incompetence on the backs of the Constitutional Court and hide behind it. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Gentlemen of the People's Group, you are not the only ones who defend the territorial integrity of our country, we are many more in this House, but with us do not count to seek shortcuts, to strain the institutions, to disfigure our constitutional architecture. With us do not count to break, with us do not count to divide, with us do not count to strain. On this journey and on this leap into emptiness you are going to get alone and getting alone you are going to exacerbate the crisis of coexistence and you are going to go ahead to the Constitutional Court. [[Rumors]] We do not expect them to reconsider their decision and withdraw this proposal at this stage. No, we're not that illusory. What we want is for the opportunity to resolve this crisis of coexistence to come after the next two electoral processes at the hands of a new government in the Generalitat of Catalonia and in the Moncloa. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u344	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. For the People's Group, in turn, I have the word Don Rafael Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u345	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Hernando, I want to tell you that I have listened carefully to your speech and I would have liked to hear what you have or what you are proposing to strengthen our system of law, to deal with what is simply a reality today, Mr Hernando - even though you have come up to this rostrum today to try to hide it - in the face of a challenge that did not exist years ago, when one of the authors you mentioned was writing about the functioning of the Constitutional Court. Of course, in 1992 there was no challenge like that which exists at the moment, Mr Hernando! If you have any questions, read to your partner Felipe González or read, if you like, Don Alfonso Guerra when he says that a coup d'état is taking place in slow motion. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, is this true or not? Are you going to draw attention to Mr. War when he makes these demonstrations, or is it that Mr. War has had to leave this House precisely after knowing the legal inanity of the arguments you profess and your political exposition of things? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened all this time? What has happened is what I have been explaining to you during my intervention. Your Honor, a political movement has been organized in Catalonia with political organizations that have nothing to do with it, which do not coincide in their ideology, in which a party like yours has practically disappeared from the electoral front after being a majority party and which they sometimes voted up to 40%. [[Rumors]] What about the other big game that existed in Catalonia! President Mas himself has decided to destroy it in order to form a coalition, which is the populist movement seeking the destruction of Spain. They have it in chapter 1 of their political programme. I know that you never do anything, I already know that you always seek equidistance, we saw it, ladies and gentlemen, at other times, at other times, but that does not lead you to anything and less now. You were talking to me about consensus. Look, we've tried to reach consensus with you here in numerous laws. [[Several Members: No!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u346	I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u347	Yes, yes, we did with the whole legislative package that affected political regeneration and you were talking to us until we closed that. And then, ladies and gentlemen, what good did it do? It was good for you to vote against for political interest. This is what happened when we tried to reach some agreement. What happened when we talked about local electoral reform at the time when you told us now it doesn't touch, after the elections? Well, they've done the same thing again. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that it is very difficult to reach consensus with someone who does not know what he wants. [[Applauds]] This is the big problem, because when in Catalonia, ladies and gentlemen, Mr.Iceta says that in order to placate the aggressiveness of some, we need to modify the Constitution to contemplate the Catalan nation within the Spanish nation, I do not know how or how, what do you do? Of course, I understand that you don't want to take pictures with Mr. Iceta, you don't want to bring him here to Congress to talk about absolutely nothing. I'm telling you, Mr. Hernando, it's not our case. I am very happy and very pleased to present initiatives, before presenting them to Congress, my candidate to the Generalitat, Mr Albiol You may not have that possibility because you, depending on the territory you are in, do not feel the same way. [[Several Members: Ah!-Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you have a mania of Mr Albiol; you have already shown it. You who speak so much about consensus, do you want to tell me what consensus you have made or carried forward with the People's Party to set up municipalities, parliaments or autonomous communities in some part of the territory? [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]] Mr Hernando, if you have been able to agree before with the independenceists of the CUP than with the People's Party! [[Applauds]] If you are the ones who have promoted and projected the institutions and the leadership of institutions to people who are the ones who say that we do not have to respect the laws, which are declared in Baleares or Valencia independentistas. With your support, Mr. Hernando! [[Protests]] This is what they do. How do you want me to compare the situation that exists at this time of challenge to the Constitution and the rulings of the Constitutional Court with situations of the 1990s? Please, Mr. Hernando! If you want, we talk about what you did in the '80s or '90s. [[Rumors and Protests]] If you want, I see you don't want much. [[Rumors]] If you want, ladies and gentlemen, we can talk about how here, in a proposal for a law, the Constitutional Court was reformed to, in this case, change its legal nature and change the system of appointments, that famous amendment called the amendment María Emilia Casas, according to which a change was made in the nature of the system of election of the Constitutional Court to extend the mandate of a person whose mandate had already expired in the Constitutional Court and try to maintain a majority in it to obtain a judgment. [[Applauds]] Yes, yes, Mr. Hernando, don't look away. That lady whom the then Vice-President of the Government publicly abrogated in front of the king. That, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, you, lessons in consensus or agreement, none; indeed, Mr Hernando, none. We've tried with you. It hasn't been easy. It's more like impossible. Not because of our position, but because of yours. But I insist, to go up to this rostrum and pretend to say that nothing is happening in the country, that nothing is happening in Catalonia, that everything is absolutely workable and that everything is arranged with dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, is living in the world of the yupis. We're not for yupis right now, Mr. Hernando. At the moment we are in politics and we are here, in the House, to take decisions until the last day of the legislature, which they have supported us for. Not to run away, as others have done or did in the past. To face up to our responsibilities and to equip the Constitutional Court with mechanisms that it currently lacks, simply to strengthen its position and that the rulings of the Constitutional Court be enforced. To whom this bothers, ladies and gentlemen, you have to make him look at it because, without a doubt, it is alien to the reality of the country and undoubtedly from the back to what Spain needs. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, stood up.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u348	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Don Antonio Hernando. [[Rumors.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] If you want to make any comments, this is the time; not before, nor when Don Antonio Hernando begins to speak. Now's the time. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u349	What legal brilliance, Mr. Hernando! [[Applauds]] I've been convinced of your arguments. He has convinced me of the case law and all the judgments he has mentioned. He has convinced me with his excellent legal arguments. [[Laughter]] Let us talk about the fundamental political problem because you have already decided not to defend - and I think it is reasonable - this initiative that you have brought, which is regrettable. The fundamental political problem is the contempt of a government president for a part of Spain and for Catalonia. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Listen to me a little bit. Since the year 2012 in which the president of the government is Mariano Rajoy - end of 2011, beginning of 2012 - has visited thirty times Catalonia, thirty times, stay with this figure: seventeen for electoral acts of the People's Party, seven for acts with entrepreneurs, one for a private act - a wedding - and five for institutional acts. [[Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros: You seem to be lying to the PSOE]] [[Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros: What a pity!]] Of thirty, five visits were for institutional acts. Do you know how many were organized by the Generalitat de Catalunya and in autonomous units? None, zero. That is the respect the President of the Government of Spain has had for the highest representatives of the State in Catalonia, that is the respect he has had for Catalonia. [[Applause.- Mrs Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros speaks words that are not perceived]] I know he didn't defend it, but let me tell you something...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u350	Mrs. Alvarez-Arenas, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u351	Not that this law is wrong. If the Law of the Constitutional Court is not wrong, what is wrong is its policy, therefore they do not have to change the Law of the Constitutional Court, what they have to change is the policy, because its policy regarding Catalonia has always been subordinated to its electoral interests in the rest of Spain, without repairing the consequences that this would have for coexistence and territorial cohesion in the rest of Spain. In the boiler of your electoral benefit you have burned all the bridges with Catalonia and now you are going to burn the last: constitutional legality. And they don't do it scared by the consequences your policy is having - because it's your policy and they defend it - they do it like a cold campaign act anymore, without seeing the consequences, Mr Hernando. But this isn't new, it's been going on for a long time. I recognize that, they're consistent. Since 2006, you have been absolutely in the same position, in despising Catalonia and in confronting Catalonia with the rest of Spain. I'm going to refresh your memory a little bit. Do you remember the small tables? Do you remember when you collected millions of signatures all over Spain against the Statute of Catalonia Do you remember this photo? What about this other picture? Do you remember this other photo of the President of the current government signing against the Statute of Catalonia? [[Displays successively several photographs]] They were so proud that they brought 4 million signatures to the entrance of the Congress of Deputies. Here they have the president of the current government facing Catalonia with the rest of Spain bringing here 4 million signatures They were so proud that they did the following: they filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court. [[Protests]] Here's another photograph of the current vice president. [[Show a picture]] [[Protests.- Mrs Alvarez-Arenas Cisneros utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u352	Mrs. Alvarez-Arenas, I call you to order for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u353	On September 1st you have done the usual thing, which is to use Catalonia to cast votes in the rest of Spain Here you did an election act and here you have done it again. [[Applauds]] [[Show a picture]] Exactly the same thing. [[Applauds]] But you didn't settle for this, it's that this summer you've put together a constitutional reform for electoral interests when the pre-campaign was beginning in Catalonia. See if they figured out that here I have six covers of six national and Catalan media that talk about their constitutional reform. [[Shows several newspaper covers]] There is one thing that is surprising, it had not been a month since you were no longer talking about constitutional reform. On the contrary, they said that there was no need for constitutional reform. Do you know why they did it on August 8th and why before the end of August they retracted? For the same reason, for electoral interests. They did so for electoral interests because Mr Rajoy's ministers and ministers have ceased to be the Government of Spain to become the electoral committee of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The greatest proof of this is that, at the head of the People's Party election committee, they have put the head of the Cabinet of the President of the Government for the first time in Spanish democracy. [[Protests]] They have appointed the Chief of Staff of the President of the Government as chairman of the People's Party election committee. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Of course, this is an electoral committee, gentlemen of the People's Party, ready to destroy the institutions in the sole interest of saving the party and preserving power. [[Rumors]] Faced with the anti-democratic irresponsibility of the Government of the Generalitat, because there is nothing more anti-democratic or anything that is more against democracy than breaking the law, you have been unable to defend the unity of Spain with intelligence, with dialogue and putting the general interests of Spain above the interests of your party. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Thankfully, gentlemen of the People's Party, there are only three months left for them to stop destroying coexistence in this country and among the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, put to the floor.-Mr Hernando Fraile asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u354	Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u355	Mr. President, I want to ask you...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u356	Mr Hernando, this debate is made with intervention, turn against, reply and reply, so the debate with you on the subject is over. If you think you have been made any personal allusion, for that allusion I give you two minutes. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u357	Mr President, the Socialist spokesman has referred to the legal characteristics of my reply. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u358	That's a debate. If you have said something personal that you think you shouldn't have said, answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u359	Yes, yes, he has alluded to people who are not in the House and who deserve defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u360	Political allusions always exist in these debates. [[Rumors]] If you think there is one that is especially serious, say so.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u361	Yes, I think there is.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u362	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u363	Mr President, when someone makes historical accounts of what is happening and in this case affecting to the truth or questioning the feelings of catalanity of this group, he is not offending my person, but the whole of my group. [[Rumors]] I would like to remind you, Mr Hernando, that in this House and in these banks there are many Catalan Members who have the votes of the citizens of Catalonia, as legitimate as those of your group. [[Applauds]] Secondly, Mr President, when calls or interventions are made from the House and historical accounts are made, it would be very good, Mr Hernando, not to manipulate it, because it is true that we have collected and presented resources of unconstitutionality... [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u364	Silence! Mr Hernando, you cannot reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u365	No, I'm not reopening the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u366	Say what you want concretely. [[Applauds]] What you said about your group is accepted, otherwise not. [[Rumors.- Mr. Count Bajén utters words that are not perceived]] And you, Mr. Count, shut up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u367	Mr. President, just to be clear. Mr Hernando spoke about the signatures and what was the position of my parliamentary group in relation to the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia I would have liked Mr Hernando to have presented at the same time as those photos the ruling of the Constitutional Court where several chapters of it were declared unconstitutional. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] [[Rumors and Protests]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u368	Mr. Hernando, don Antonio, would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u369	To abide by the terms of the word he has given you. [[Rumors]] He said that I referred to the legal level of his intervention. The truth is that the legal juxtaposition of their reasoning is evident. I have not said it with irony; it has been very brilliant, Mr Hernando. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u370	Let's keep going. [[Sicilia Alferez utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Sicilia, I'm calling you to order for the first time. [[Protests]] And as I continue to do so, I'm going to call the order for the second time. Keep an eye out. We continue with the Joint Parliamentary Group. First of all, Mr Serrano has the floor. [[Rumors]] Please follow the plenary. The one who does not want to be, who abandons the Chamber quickly and silently. [[A Member: A little education!]] Mr Serrano, you can speak now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u371	Given the level of the two speeches, but especially of the second speaker of the PP, I reaffirm the initial idea I wanted to express here. This initiative is a genuine misconception for its urgency procedure, which steals the debate in this House on purpose, and for its electoralist objective of fishing votes among the most intransigent Spanish nationalism - yes, intransigent Spanish nationalism and, in this case, anti-Catalan - against the right to decide of one of the peoples, of one of the societies of the Spanish State. It demonstrates the blindness and lack of political waist on the part of the People's Party, the party of the Government, and its inability to face political problems. You resort to judicial and coercive, repressive and criminal measures, the judicialization of politics, the politicization of the courts and the subjection of their supposed institutional independence to the political and electoral interests of your executive. With this reform, the already deteriorated prestige of the Constitutional Court and the Spanish judicial system will fall even lower in front of many people in the Spanish State. It shows a real fear of knowing the will of the citizenry, to consult it, a typical problem of authoritarian mentality aggravated even more when it enjoys absolute majority. You are wrong about the Catalan problem. It is the Catalans who have to convince of their idea of Spain, not the German Chancellor, the President of the United States or the English Prime Minister. You are unable to do so and have become a manufacturing machine I do not know if nationalists, but independenceists in Catalonia. Yes, gentlemen of the government, Mr Rajoy should feel guilty that there are so many independenceists in Catalonia and that they are growing in other territories. I assure you that if I had your idea of Spain I would be very concerned about this problem, but I would try to solve it politically, to talk with Catalan citizens and to consult them, to offer them and convince them of the kindness of my approaches without threats and with the help of precisely the gravity of the problem. However, their political blindness leaves them weak, to the point of not knowing where they have the hand or where to put it to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u372	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Salvador.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u373	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, to defend our position today, we start from one idea: it does not seem right to reward with impunity the systematic or systematic compliance with the law or the lack of respect for the rulings of the Constitutional Court. I say this because some in this debate have come to say something like that it is almost offensive to sanction legal breach or that the non-compliance would be something like a victim of the law. Nor are we in favour of hasty legislation, no time for dialogue and no room for agreement, but we also do not believe that a rule of law reduces its democratic quality by providing itself with self-protection instruments that defend it against rebellion and contempt. I can join the criticism for the moment, for the procedure, for electoralism in presenting this bill, but this does not prevent me from recognizing that if we are here and we are so it is as a result of our own inaction. Let us take the initiative into consideration, but let us have a dialogue, ladies and gentlemen. In these days some wonder whether this initiative will serve to avoid non-compliance or to manufacture more independentists. We all know that our independenceists always play with advantage; if they double the State they celebrate it as one more step towards the breakup, and if the State does not give in, they also celebrate it by adding a further aggravation to its memorial. It is true that for them there is nothing more profitable than a defeat, but let us stop deceiving, ladies and gentlemen, their achievements, all of them - imposing an exclusive identity, allowing the civilian death of the dissenters, artificially accumulating grievances or abusing the policy of fait accompli - are only explained by our failure to defend the Constitution and the unity of Spain and, as has been shown today, by our disunity. That, ladies and gentlemen, and also the well-paid kidnapping of the media and the imposition of a single narrative. By the way, I can't stop denouncing here the gruesome veto of TV3 to a book by an ex-minister, Josep Borrell, called The Accounts and Stories of Independence. Censorship, fear... Is the Catalan Republican king going naked? Nor will I let go of another fact, which is to comment on the presence as stars invited to this challenge in which we are now from the heirs of Batasuna. For what, ladies and gentlemen, do you need the process of the heirs of Batasuna? What kind of society do they want to build by the hand of those who never respected freedom, never respected life, never respected the independence of people who don't think like them? Neither should independence be the opportunity that totalitarians seek to impose their project, nor wait, ladies and gentlemen, for their hopes to be well received in the European Union embraced by the black record of these new fellow travellers. I say to them, their hatred will devour them. I know for some it's now or never, they say it, they repeat it, and I understand it. They see disorientation, they see disunity in their adversaries - today we have given a clear proof of it -; it is an opportunity, perhaps their last chance. I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, the conflict you need to break up is not going to be enough because we are many more who do not share your current historical emergencies. They're obviously not going to make any case to me, they're in their right.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u374	Mr. Savior, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u375	You just have to listen, if you wish, to Mr Cameron, Mrs Merkel or President Obama himself. I shall end by adding a very brief idea, Mr President. If a great majority of us separate our differences, we work to recover affection and empathy and explain the dangers of rupture and lies, as Mr Borrell does, as well as the failure of coexistence to which this rupture leads, we will have laid the foundations to embrace the most unique and creative catalanity that has done so well to Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what we have wanted for all since the Navarro People's Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u376	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. In this debate there is an intervention, I think very remarkable, by the Joint Group. I was asked, and it seems very reasonable, for everyone to intervene, but, please, I ask you to stick to the times we have agreed. Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in this House the consideration of a far-reaching initiative for the democratic building. When talking about transcendental initiative, one can only talk about whether or not it is good for the rule of law, whether it is legally correct or incorrect. In my view, we can only talk about the substance of the matter, the rest is sterile and as opportunistic as the opportunism of which the proposer is probably accused. Electoralism, opportunism, perhaps, but the question is whether reform is necessary or not. Many thinkers have reflected on why laws and their modifications. I'm out of my league in time. It is essential in essence to divide powers and to comply with the judgments on a violation of the same. The reality is that in recent years we have seen how the sovereign centrifugal forces have been gradually punctuating this power, obviating their resolutions in many areas, such as education or the constitutional, trying to achieve their own independence goals politically, and that affects us all, and it also comes out for free or for very little money. Trying to amend errors in this area, either because of the lack of diligence of the current Government or because of the frivolity of the previous one, is appropriate, regardless of the date, but it must be done well and not with cumbersome procedural, and less substantive. Disobedience to this decision of the Constitutional Court was already a crime, which does not change with this reform: nihil novum so sole, Mr Hernando. We are in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law that we are debating, but we will transfer the appropriate remedies and amendments to show that it is a law towards someone or something in particular and that it can distort the Constitutional Court itself, which is not part of the judiciary but which is assigned new powers of other courts. Curiously, it may have to decide on the very constitutionality of this proposal, which would be perceptive and would make it a weak favor for it and for the democratic architecture itself, even if it is probably desirable for almost all. But, ladies and gentlemen, how to do this - I wonder - by resorting as an alternative to the Law of Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction, which happens to be the slowest in the execution of sentences. It looks like a dislate. In any case, I will try to make some amendment that has been taking place for days in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u377	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. He has fulfilled his time perfectly. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u378	Thank you very much, Mr President. From a time to this part it seems that the PP legislates with an urn on its head. As a matter of fact, they're being put on the urn of so much legislation thinking about the elections. There's nothing more to see who presented this project. I don't know what the candidate of a party for the Catalonian elections was doing by presenting a bill for Congress. They legislate late and badly, in haste, even overrun Congressional regulations or the same legislative procedure, with bad legal technique. As we recently discussed the reform of the Constitutional Court Act to recover the previous remedy of unconstitutionality, this new reform is now coming to us without notice. Sometimes you look like the bad students who have done nothing during the course, during the legislature, and suddenly realize that September has arrived and want to suddenly recover all the lost time. This reform is not for the common interest of all citizens; this is a reform made expressly for Catalonia. In this reform the People's Party has acted with clumsiness, with the senseless immobility of Don Tancredo or, worse, with the reckless demagogy of the pyromaniac fireman, seeking only his electoral interest. You, in fact, are looking for a shortcut that will prevent you from going down the dangerous path of article 155 of the Constitution and do so on such a large issue that neither the General Council of the Judiciary nor the Council of State can be pronounced. It is so important that it affects the constitutional balance and fundamental rights. With this reform to the letter they will end up turning the Constitutional Court into a puppet. I have quoted Montesquieu three times here, and he has a very illustrative phrase that comes very close to the point: The useless laws weaken the necessary ones. While you are going to pass a useless and unnecessary law and, worse, with unconstitutionality, you still do not address the necessary laws. In fact, Mr Hernando pointed that out in his speech. Why, for example, do they not propose a law to ensure the impartiality of the Constitutional Court and that it is not the parties that appoint judges? Honestly, do you think it's okay to make a reform that breaks the constitutional consensus like this? One last question, Mr Hernando, in the light of your last words: If we vote no to this, will our children be able to live in peace, freedom and prosperity? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u379	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u380	Thank you, Mr. President. Disproposal, a real misproposal. That a reform of the Constitutional Court introduce it to a candidate for elections and that, in addition, it is not a deputy... There it is. That it has also been done without any contact with any parliamentary group, with the forces that we are here in Congress and the Senate; moreover, that no attempt has been made to reach consensus with the main opposition group when a reform of the Constitutional Court was made a few months ago in which they agreed... Quiet. Absolute demeanor. In a matter like this one cannot be used in an electoral campaign as a bold weapon the amendment of the Constitutional Court. It has been an absolutely irresponsible attitude not only of the People's Party, but also of the Government of this country. We are amending the Constitutional Court and there are no members of the Government here, when, as we all know, the Vice-President of the Government herself has intervened on other occasions because of the importance of the matters to be dealt with. Let me finish my speech by reading a few lines, because something else is being talked about here. 'Plurinationality does not constitute any threat to the integrity of Spain because it is an essential part of its deep being. But it is a serious risk to such integrity that this constituent feature of its own structure is not known. Reality usually takes revenge on those who ignore it.' His author, gentlemen of the PP, is Miguel Herrero and Rodríguez de Minón, constitutional rapporteur and currently a member of the Council of State. Of course, we do not share the path opened by the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, but neither does the immobilism of the Spanish governments following the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the Catalan Statute of 2010. It's a non-confrontational situation. The proposed amendment might have gone unnoticed. In formal terms, only the Constitutional Court is given powers that the judiciary already has to enforce its decisions, but in political terms it is about preventing a situation that has not been faced by the recognition of the cultural, linguistic and identity reality of Catalonia within the Spanish Constitution through a specific additional provision. To face this challenge by appealing only to the enforcement of the Constitutional Court's resolutions is the expression of a failure in political life, a failure that the Canarian nationalists do not share and we will therefore vote against this consideration. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u381	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u382	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, what you are doing is using democracy's own resources to act against it and we say this because what you are proposing to us, both in form and substance, is deeply undemocratic. The express reform presented also during the extension period of this legislature sheds light on the partisan use of State institutions by the People's Party. It is not possible to speak of a State governed by law in the strict sense when that right is promulgated in a short time and to penalize the adversary. They will be approved standards that have legal virtuality, but of course they are not based on an ideal of justice and equity. It has been more typical of totalitarian and non-democratic States to weave an ad hoc legal order and parapet in it to combat political dissent. In this case, this philosophy is taken into account, in addition with arrogance, since the strong statement of the candidate of the People's Party in Catalonia shows that this is an orderly measure for electoral purposes and not as a necessary measure to strengthen the authority of the Constitutional Court. Since the BNG we have questioned the impartial role of the Constitutional Court in deciding on territorial spaces. The documents of the so-called Barcelona Declaration, signed almost two decades ago, can be reviewed to seek arguments on the political nature of this body throughout its journey in interpreting the competition framework. Your role has been distorted to a point of non-return, ladies and gentlemen, by the role of a government punitive executioner that you have assumed in the Catalan process. To strengthen it, the Government no longer relies on the ordinary mechanisms of the legal system by altering the common rules in which it is the ordinary judges who oversee the enforcement of sentences and, ladies and gentlemen, its parliamentary group entrusts this function to the Constitutional Court. This initiative shows which rule of law the People's Party appeals to which it is shaping according to its interests, far removed from the democratic ideal it advocates and which also serves to bury the political debate in jurisdictional structures controlled by the People's Party itself, since the majority of the current members of the Constitutional Court have been proposed by this party. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is also clear that it is difficult to let go of the Spanish right, which is unable even to debate through political channels and to submit to the democratic will of the Catalan people a clearly political dilemma with regard to its fit and relationship with the Spanish State. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, the Galego Nationalist Block is going to vote against this initiative, which unfortunately the People's Group presents this afternoon, a month after the dissolution of these General Courts. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u383	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Davila. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u384	[[He begins his intervention in Catalan, whose text, which he gives to the 'Diary of Sessions', says the following: Lord Hernando, we do not have them for! Catalonia saw a democratic process that responds to a will to build a new country, more justly socially, more democratic and free. And for everyone!]] That is why we are not afraid of them, because we do it and we will do it to the Catalan, peacefully, democratically; and we have demonstrated it with great popular mobilizations, which have been an example to the whole world of civics, and this fills us with pride. No violence, joy, collective illusion, respect, tolerance and much pactism, because pactism is at the root of the history of Catalonia and its people; and we are not going to fall into any provocation or trap. We will not fall into the trap that you are putting us here today with the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, as we have never given up before so many other misunderstandings and blockages to the democratic will of Catalonia, which have been reflected in the imagination of Catalan society for many years. As Mr Guerra's words to the Socialist Youth boasting that the autonomy status that had been approved by the Parliament of Catalonia had been brushed out, either when Mr Arenas led and encouraged Catalanophobia by collecting signatures against the autonomy status, or when Mr Aznar threatened to break the civic unity of the people of Catalonia. And even some who now, new politicians, do what they do is appeal to the origins of extremist grandparents or Andalusian parents to try to condition the vote by ignoring - stupid - that we are a people that we are very proud to be carnegos and mestizos, that catalanity has never, ever, ever been based on the past, but is a present and a will for the future. These idiots have not understood that the debate is not about identities, it is about sovereignty, and that is why we are not afraid of them. We are not afraid of them, despite the fact that today they are going to take another turn to manipulate a Constitutional Court that has already been corrupt for many years, sold to partyism, with magistrates who have boasted and boast of having a party card, which in 2010 they laminated by order - let it be clear, by order - the status of autonomy that had previously been plebiscised by the people of Catalonia. And now they're turning a nut more to have a free bar to impute, disable, even imprison perhaps, if necessary, the political leaders who will form, if citizens say so, a government with a specific democratic mandate, but we're not afraid, not the tenim por, even though they've already put all the repressive machinery into operation. The President of my country is now accused, and two members of his Government, of the participatory process of 9 November. Do you know why we're not afraid of them? Because his performance reflects his great, his enormous weakness. Do you think that Mr Romeva or Mr Baños, who are candidates for two sovereignist candidatures, do not share with the rest of the citizens of Catalonia that democracy is unbeatable? Do you think that between your threats and the democratic mandate you will betray your principles? I think they're wrong. They threaten you and do not realize that there are a large number of Catalan citizens who have already disconnected from you, have already disconnected mentally, with which threats serve no purpose. And why have they disconnected? Because people are sick of having a counter-state, so people have disconnected from you. And when it disconnects, fear doesn't exist. We're not afraid of them. You're incapable of understanding it. I'm gonna finish it. We've come a long way, Mr. Hernando, a long way. In the last thirty years the Catalan popular classes have struggled to build a welfare state that socialized wealth a little bit and now we see that this world is sinking into us and we do not want to mortgage one, two or three generations of Catalans. That's why we're gonna win! Two, our parents planted in front of Francoism, illiterates of his language, orally transmitted the language to us and we in democracy have been able to literate. What we have done to share our language now with all Catalans, new and old! Finally, a photograph. [[Show a picture]] Mr. President, I'm done. A photograph, Lluís Companies, 1934, imprisoned by a right-wing government supposedly democratic for defending the will of the people of Catalonia. What do you propose? Back to the past? Is this your future? Is this the future? In the face of a mature people like Catalan, democratic, civic and full of illusion, you are left with the batons and the batons. We'll keep the ballot boxes and the votes. Democracy is unbeatable. You should understand this and not offend the whole of Spanish citizenship because the whole of Spanish citizenship in the end will also be in favour of fraternity between men, women and peoples.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u385	Mr. Tardà, I beg you to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u386	I think Catalonia will be the ram of this process. We don't have them for you! We don't have them for you! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u387	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. Mr Quadra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u388	Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a new challenge from the government without any doubt and it is becoming apparent. Knowing the People's Party that here it has absolute majority, but that on the street between the citizens of this nothing, then they take advantage of this framework to practice a new fraud, as it sounds. For the People's Party the Constitutional Court, the Constitution itself and the laws are a gum that is stretched and shrinked, chewed to convenience, but what happens is that, from both chewing laws, constitutions and courts, its so-called "rule of law" has become what is today a state of waste, as it sounds. The government is panicking, like the stepmother of Snow White, to look in the mirror of the right to decide, it is not going to be that this mirror tells her that her beloved Spain is, in short, the remains of that beloved and wept empire and that today in reality it has only become a super-centralist state and prison of peoples and the PP government, like that ugly stepmother, prefers to break the mirror rather than recognize the reality of what is happening. The right to decide is a right that peoples have, it is not a right that corresponds to States, let alone to a State such as Spanish, based on a unique and exclusive sovereignty, settled in an indissoluble and indivisible unity and protected or guarded by a Castresian democracy. Comrade Tardà has already said that in the last four years millions of people have gone to the streets in Catalonia to demand freedom and independence. Look at the newspapers of the last decades in Europe! There have never been any citizen mobilizations of this caliber anywhere, and the Government, instead of approaching these facts, trying to understand them and reason something, the only thing it wants to do or the only thing it intends to do is to introduce all this which is impossible to kick from the narrow funnel of a Constitution and of cheating laws. This is what you want to do! The Catalan Parliament adopted by a large majority a statute and that statute was brushed here and subsequently devastated by the Constitutional Court, by that Constitutional Court which then also declared the Catalan consultation law illegal, as it had previously done with the Basque consultation law. The President and two councillors of that Government are now being criminally pursued solely for the purpose of promoting a participatory process, 9-N. Faced with the hand stretched, the reasonings and the ballot boxes that have come from Catalonia, the government's response has always been no, closing and imposing. This is the movie of the process we've seen. In any case, others speak of third paths - it is also interesting to talk about this -, yes, subject of course to the current legality by those who in their day said that the rule of law was also defended from the cloacas, those who four years ago also practiced an express reform of the Constitution, of article 135, with relief, premeditation, nightliness, climbing, summer and kneeling before the troika. [[Protests]] Those who submitted the interests of the great social majority to the interests of a few minorities of speculators and extra-perlist bankers speak today of legality, constitutional legality. As I have already said, the rule of law belongs to peoples, not to States. It is not, nor can it be, concession, but recognition. It is not and cannot depart from Madrid, but from Catalonia, from Euskal Herria, from Galicia. This is the rule of law, and much more so given that the experience of five hundred years shows us that it has not been in the village and court where these rights for the peoples have been conquered, but it has been in the same submissive peoples. This is the experience we have. With this express bill, the PP seeks to substantially change the character of the Constitutional Court in order to be able to enter Catalonia. He wants robes and beers to dance at his own pace, and he wants to fully implement justice and put it above the sovereignty, the voice, the decision of the Catalan people. The Minister of Defence, Mr Morenés, the warlord, who goes from a peasant and today has become a Castrian oracle, threatens even with military intervention in Catalonia and remains so wide, he, his Government and the People's Party. It threatens this in case the institutions do not comply with their duties. But who is Mr. Morenes? Who is the PP government? Who is this party to talk about the fulfillment of duty when they hold the Guinness of the world in what is corruption and bad legislative arts? [[Protests]] I'm done. The problem far transcends whether or not there is a PP government, the problem is more fundamental, the problem is the Spanish Constitution and the constitutional regime. The problem is one of article 1 of the Constitution, which refers to the fact that sovereignty is unique and exclusive, one of article 2, which refers to the indivisible and indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, and one of article 8, which guarantees the army all of the above. That is why the solution has to go so that these articles disappear and that there is a clear and direct recognition of the voice and the word for Catalonia, for Euskal Herria and for Galicia. [[Management withdrawn by the President in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber]] Visca Catalunya free! [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u389	Thank you, Mr. Quadra. If you want to make exclamations this is the time. [[Protests]] For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u390	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must congratulate the spokesman for the PP because he has told us that he has put forward a proposal for a law. Who are the others to curb their ability to take initiative? They have had so much initiative that, look, they have preferred a bill rather than a bill over the will of the Government. We see that they are not interested in anything, and they will certainly not have presented it to shorten the deadlines. You must also be congratulated on your ability and know-how so that on the same day that you present the initiative to the Congress of Deputies, the President will qualify it - let us say taking over the Bureau - and order its publication, so that it will give you time to pass this initiative quickly. [[Mr Hernando Fraile makes gestures to the speaker]] No, don't make any gestures to me because if I present the letter and ask the President the same thing, they would do to me the indifferent and apply to me the current legality, although you do not apply it, only to others. Secondly, you must also be congratulated because how well you do so that this will qualify as a one-of-a-kind reading! since neither the nature of the draft is single-reading nor by urgent procedure, since it is an organic law - therefore it is not single-reading - and simplification is not such. As the spokesman for the Socialist Group, Mr Hernando, has rightly pointed out, we are talking, nothing more and nothing less, than about the very nature of the Constitutional Court, we are talking about the granting of powers even from other institutions. If you want to do this, you have to go to Title IX of the Constitution and initiate a constitutional reform. You very easily accuse others of trying to make constitutional cover reforms and you are the first to try. But not only do they try, but, on the basis of their absolute majority, they carry it forward. What's the urgency for all this? Because the rules are erga omnes and they won't be designed for a specific case, will they? Or is it? Yes, it seems they are because in his speech Mr Hernando has spoken especially, and naming him, of the president of the Generalitat with pearls such as the joke is over, not worth half inks, not going to come out for free... Come on, if we get this speech out of this parliamentary context - it's not worth half an ink, it's not going to come out for free, the joke is over - it looks like it's going to send you two gorillas. Yes, yes, Mr Hernando, because it is basically against the will and the common sense of the Constitution itself as you are doing this reform. It is curious, ladies and gentlemen, that so far we have not seen the need to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court in all these years; the rulings have not been frustrated in these thirty-five years. I do not say that, says a former President of the Constitutional Court, former President of the Supreme and Council, Don Pascual Sala; they have not been frustrated. Sorry, yes, some have been frustrated! You know what? Those that have not been fulfilled by the Government of the State. I will mention two, for example, in the area of autonomous competence: 96, in the area of banking and insurance, and 95/2002, in the area of continuing vocational training. They are very clear and the Government of the State continues to disregard the rulings of the Constitutional Court. What's going to happen? That the CT will suspend Mr. Rajoy or that it will enforce the status of autonomy with still some competences that have not been transferred to the autonomous community after 1979? Is the Constitutional Court going to force the government or suspend it and punish it? Don't tell me yes, that you are the chiefs and the Constitutional Court is your arm. Here the vandals are the others, yes, the Basques, the Catalans, the autonomy in general... When that is not the case because, of course, small people, even if they do not want to, have no choice but to bow to the decisions of the Constitutional Court since the whole environment, the three powers, the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary and the facts themselves are going to make it impossible otherwise. The only one who can get rid of this and nothing happens to him is the Government of the State. This is it. They have just pointed out once again, and this time in a very serious way, to the Constitutional Court as its enforcer arm, as the vanguard of the Government and the vanguard of the People's Party in its particular crusade; once again. Because you have no doubt that he will act as expected of him. The impartiality of the Constitutional Court is no longer assumed by either of them; it has been completely destroyed, with no value whatsoever. You have to change the system because this doesn't make any more sense. This Constitutional Court is exhausted, and you have exhausted it. Look, before we had the discussion about the Valencian Statute - not to mention Basques and Catalans - and a provision that forms part of an organic law, of a special organic law such as a statute of autonomy, in this case a provision on financing, is worthless because the Constitutional Court has said that even if it is a statute of autonomy and is ordered directly by the Constitution, the Government can do what it likes. How have you left the autonomous state? They left it on the chassis. What is PP's medicine when you can't do your will? Go to the Constitutional Court. They resort to rules endorsed even by citizens, such as, for example, the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia; they block the election of members of the Constitutional Court when they know that you do not have a majority; they put in previous remedies, and now they put in another patch, one more. Despite the disguise of defenders of the rule of law you like to wear, you represent the antithesis of it. You are quite the opposite of the rule of law. Were the constitutional courts created, conceived, designed to silence the voice of the people? Yesterday I was preparing all this and started reading Lowenstein, Kelsen, Carl Schmitt, and all of a sudden I said to myself, "For, Aitor, it's not about this, that they care about a fig." And I have seen it in his previous speech: he has spoken nothing of law, this is a political issue and it is an electoral issue. You don't care about the method: as quickly as possible, with the majority that I have and without anyone else. This is it. And all this for what? To do something that by its transcendence or by its tax sign would they not dare to do as it is to apply the 155? Or why are they going to dissolve the courts and see if anything happens while they're not assembled and the Senate can't meet? Watch out! To see also what is the capacity of a government in office to instigate certain matters and certain articles such as 155, or to see what this Constitutional Court does with the laws and the Constitution, because the Constitution cannot be made a gum, as you do, interpreting it only in your own way. No, you have to respect the rules of the game, but you are the owners who make the rules of the game vary when you feel like it and the others have to conform. He's talking about consensus. You guys are really exclusive. Have you tried to negotiate something? No, it's done in one reading and out of urgency. A matter of such transcendence will be approved by you alone, you don't give a damn. You have been unable, after the municipal and autonomous elections, to agree governments because you have made a burning land policy. Do you talk to us about consensus? Are you telling us that nationalisms are exclusive? More exclusive than your party in the last four years has been nothing. Some parts of the text itself are incredible, because, look, it is here that a person can be suspended, punished and taken action, as you say, unheard-of part, i.e. without hearing the parties, on a plan. That is unheard of, without any legal guarantee, and all on the basis of a circumstance as unmeasurable as circumstances of particular constitutional significance. You also, why do you advance?, what do you think is going to happen?, you know what are going to be the steps that will be taken after the elections in Catalonia?, why are you assuming everything? Because under suspicion, Mr Hernando, the Constitutional Court cannot be turned into a mere enforcer of provisions. That's not his nature, not much less. You have used and want to use the Constitutional Court to win and impose your own political positions, and that is to throw away the very balance of the Constitutional Court. In this legislature you have come to meet the Council of State on a Sunday and the Monday following the Constitutional Court. They have agreed on a Saturday, on a Sunday they have brought together the Council of State and on Monday the Constitutional Court. If this is not a sign that they do what they want with the rest of the institutions, what is it?, where is the independence of the other organs here? Yeah, this happened when the Consultation Act and 9-N. Here, unlike the U.S. Supreme Court - some speakers have said so too - there is no practice of this subject of political issue, i.e. inhibiting in those matters whose meaning is political, although formally it may affect jurisdiction. No, here he pushes to court and also through the media if necessary, and through internal political pressures and calls for him to get involved in what are not his own business. And in a recent resolution, less than a year ago, the Constitutional Court also began to point that out. I insist, a former President of the Constitutional Court says that this procedure is contrary to the most elementary legislative technique and that there is no problem for the court to tell how the sentences are enforced because the sentences are declaratory. If it is an amparo procedure, it is stated in the judgment how to comply. It's said, it's said now, Mr. Hernando. And if there is a competition conflict, it says which one is competent. But no, you go beyond that. You want it to solve them, making a fiction of the rule of law, a political issue, and political issues have to be negotiated. Instead of trying to convince and be campaigning now in Catalonia, trying to convince Catalans to vote for their choices, to vote for Mr Albiol's list, instead of coming here to present this writing, to what do you dedicate yourselves? To this and to catch leaders like Obama, Merkel and Cameron to say what you want them to say. Of course, normal. Today we have seen the photo - which is magnificent - of the king when the translator made a translation that was not accurate, because everything was agreed, the phrase was agreed. Of course, it's normal, an independent State to another State, what is it going to tell you? Well, I'll do you that favor. But you're making a mistake from end to end. I congratulate President Mas and the parties that are pushing the process in this direction, because they have tried to act and passively internationalize it and have been impossible for them, and now it turns out that it is precisely the Spanish Government that has internationalized the Catalan question in this way. And they have already left it there because they have been told that they would like a united Spain, but what they have not said or of course can say is that they will be against the democratic expression of a people. And you have internationalized it, you yourselves. [[Applauds]] Keep it up. They're clumsy, really. I'm glad; in this case, I'm glad. You have destroyed, with the invaluable help of the PSOE on many occasions, the autonomous system and above all the foundations of the agreement with historical communities, and these are larger words. I'm done, Mr. President. The Basque nation, the Catalan nation, with its institutions, its right, its language, have lasted for many centuries. We are with some and other political forms of government; we are in the 21st century. In the twenty-first century, no one can be retained by force or by imposition, threat or fear, but through agreement, negotiation and the search for solutions. Did you ask the socialist spokesman for advice to preserve the rule of law? Well, that's my advice. Realize that we are in the twenty-first century: neither force nor threat nor fear. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u391	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u392	Thank you, President. Here a Basque who is also not afraid, a Basque who speaks as a Spanish national deputy, representing all Spanish citizens. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Here is a Basque that also means from this rostrum that the violence of breaking the Constitution, symbolic violence throughout the history of humanity, always precedes physical violence. Always, unfortunately; only in their case it happens because physical violence has had it before. [[Applauds.-Several honourable Members: Very well!]] We are facing an important political debate for Spain, so that the law and the rule of law and the freedoms of all Spaniards are respected in Spain. This is how my parliamentary group wants to lead this debate, not in one fight between each other and you and you did it and the other is to blame. What the People's Group has brought is a reform of the Constitutional Court that my parliamentary group does not share and I will explain why. I do not share it either on occasion, in content or in form, or even in what you intend to tell us when you bring this reform proposal, but my group wants to reflect on the substance. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group - I was going to say gentlemen of the Government, but no, gentlemen of the People's Group - the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy and this party will support any decision or measure of the Government or of any group that serves to ensure compliance with the laws, their respect and compliance with the judgments of the courts. Any measure we are proposed to ensure this, respect for the law and enforcement of sentences, will have the support of this parliamentary group. Even if they proposed it to us during the electoral period, if they proposed it to us; even if they made that entrepreneurial exercise of bringing the autonomous candidate to present it; even if so, during the electoral period, with an entrepreneurial exercise, without agreement with anyone, without explaining it to us, if we came to the conclusion that it is necessary, this parliamentary group would put them green but would support them. And now it turns out that we have to make them green and not support them, because I will try to prove that this proposal that they have brought is not necessary to ensure respect for the laws and compliance with the judgments of the courts and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. That there are rules left in Spain? Surplus, worth the redundancy. We have rules, procedures and instruments; the Constitutional Court has them, criminal jurisdiction has them, the Government and the State have them through the ordinary articles of the Constitution, including 155, but not only 155, but also 97, which tells the Government that it is responsible for ensuring equality and legality in the State. That is, the Government has them; what has not had either this Government or the former has been the courage, the political will to implement them. So today's debate for my group is about that. Are new legal instruments needed? Listen, I don't want to convince the Independenceists to stop being so; for nothing. I have no interest in convincing the independenceists to stop being independenceists or you to stop being conservative or they to stop being socialist. No, no, I, as the representative of the Spaniards in this rostrum, and those who are in the government as representatives of all of Spain, must compel all the authorities - as well as all the citizens - to comply with the law and to respect the judgments of the courts. I don't want to convince them. I'm not bothered by the independenceists, they've never bothered me; never, not now. What bothers me, and I don't have to tolerate it, is that the law is overturned and that they fail to comply with court decisions. It is not a matter of fear, Mr Tardà, it is a question that without law there is neither democracy nor history nor guarantees. Nothing. The will of the people is very good, but within the law and with respect for the laws. In the same way - forgive me, Mr Hernando, I very much liked your first intervention - I do not think it is a good thing to compare the political differences - which we have and deep with the PP government on this issue - with the positions of those who simply say that they will not comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court or the judgments of the courts. And they say we have to talk and we have to negotiate? With those who don't respect the laws, there's nothing to negotiate with. We must negotiate between people who have political positions that can be absolutely divergent but who are willing to respect the law. Maybe we want to change it from top down and from bottom up, but we change it with respect to the law and the rules. If not, what country is this? What rule of law is this if we admit that it gives the same ideological discrepancy as the failure of the law and the judgments of the courts? No, it's not the same. Therefore, the question - and I come back to the beginning of the debate - is that you will find our support to ensure that the laws are respected, but to hide behind the Constitutional Court, no; to denaturalize the Constitutional Court, neither; to appear that there were no measures, means and procedures to compel the Catalan authorities - and others - to comply with the laws, neither. There were procedures and you didn't want to use them or want to use them. To entrust to the Constitutional Court what is a political responsibility or a responsibility of the criminal courts, they will not find us for this. There are instruments and mechanisms and, as I said, what is lacking is courage to apply or activate them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando, spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, this is an unnecessary proposal and it is in substance and form. The form refers not only to when they presented it and how, because I have already talked about that, but to the content. It is unnecessary because, as I said, there are already tools and mechanisms in place to enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Resolutions such as the right to school children in the mother tongue or the call for a referendum have not been complied with. Although changed his name, they convened a referendum that was unconstitutional; it was declared twice unconstitutional. Was the referendum held because there was no chance of avoiding it? No, it was celebrated because you didn't have the courage to act or to tell the prosecutor to act and intervene. They didn't have the courage to do it. They did, yes, later; by the way, a month later than we did. But there were instruments. It has not been for lack of mechanisms, but for lack of will. Therefore, do not seek at this stage of the legislature alibied so that people believe that if things have gone so far - and I say so far not in the demand for independence, that I care about a cumin, but in the failure to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the courts - it was because there were no mechanisms. No, it has been because there is a despotic government in Catalonia - despotic means that it behaves outside the law - and there is a government in Spain without courage to act politically. Mr Esteban said that no court can stop a coup d'état; he said that he was talking about war and I understand that. But if you haven't said it, I will say it: no court can stop an incredulous, political coup d'état; what is happening in Catalonia, because a government that doesn't comply, that skips court decisions and says that it doesn't care what we decide or what anyone decides because they're going to do what they want and they're not going to comply with court decisions or comply with the Constitution, is a government that is actually making a coup d'état. That is not for any court, it is for the State, and in this case the Government with the instruments given to it by the Constitution. It is not done by any court, the Constitutional Court or any other, as in any country in our environment, as in any democracy in our environment. Therefore, there are instruments. From the point of view of the form, of the content - other spokesmen have told us, in my opinion Mr Hernando, the spokesman of the Socialist Group - this is an unprecedented jurisdiction in which the judges of the Constitutional Court would act as a sort of criminal judge who can impose sanctions as relevant as disqualification to hold public office. A constitutional criminal jurisdiction, that's what they're asking us. Criminal jurisdiction can do that, disqualification, as I will then explain, with perhaps prison consequences, but it is the criminal court, the criminal jurisdiction, not the Constitutional Court. It is an absolute denaturalization of the Constitutional Court, a nonsense, and then it is also a sluggish one. Following the same argument, some decisions of the Constitutional Court have been cited, and I would like to quote one very recently. Do you remember the debate that took place precisely in 2013 as a result of the membership of the President of the Constitutional Court in the government party? The Constitutional Court issued an order recalling that the Constitutional Court - intercommissioned - is a State institution which, like its judges, is not part of the judiciary, cannot act as a criminal jurisdiction. It is impossible, even if they want to attribute it in this reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, it is absolutely impossible. The Constitutional Court has not only declaratory instruments. Mr. Esteban, they amended article 92 of the Constitutional Court itself by introducing a new paragraph so that, in addition to the statement, it was established how a decision of the Constitutional Court could be enforced that those who had an obligation to execute it did not want to do so. They amended article 92 by adding a new paragraph in which the Constitutional Court could identify exactly the persons who had to comply with that resolution and, if they did not comply with it, it was when criminal jurisdiction began to take effect; criminal jurisdiction began to take action against crimes that already existed, for example, sedition. I'm not inventing it, it's in the Penal Code and the penal codes of all the democracies of the world. Therefore, we go to the next action, after the proceedings already held by the Constitutional Court to request and declare the nullity or suspension of a unilateral declaration, in this case, of independence. It has the power to issue declaratory resolutions and also to issue subsequent acts. There are also legal solutions in the case of conscious and deliberate non-compliance with resolutions; they exist, but you have not implemented them. For example, public demonstration of unilateral declaration of independence. Does the Constitutional Court have to act? Perhaps later it can act, but a public demonstration of unilateral declaration of independence - let us stand on the night of 27 or the morning of 28 - is a relevant sign of the crime of sedition, as established in our Penal Code, but it is the criminal court that has to act in this situation. In that case, the entry into prison of the persons concerned would not be ruled out, even before the Constitutional Court had ruled on the matter. It is simply a matter of activating the prosecutor's office and also the Attorney General's Office and telling them to act. Similarly, if they refused to comply with the mandate, due diligence, state attorney and prosecutor's office, possible crimes of prevarication and disobedience. It is in our legal order, but you must instruct the State Attorney General and the lawyer to act, without perverting the Constitutional Court, without perverting the work of the Constitutional Court or the very essence of the Constitutional Court. Finally, there is the so-called article 155 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court - I have told you the instruments -, criminal jurisdiction - I have cited some examples, some instruments - and then comes 155 of the Constitution. People with little suspicion of not knowing the law and little suspicion of not wanting to interpret it well have endeavoured to call article 155 of the Constitution the suspensory article of autonomy, and I doubt it permanently. I would like people to read it to them, because 155 is an ordinary article of the Constitution, it is not an extraordinary article, it is not intended for Catalonia or for the Basque Country, it has been in the Constitution since it was adopted. It is an ordinary article of the Constitution that is not to punish anyone but to defend the general interest, the rule of law, so that the law is enforced on an equal basis in any territory of Spain, to protect the citizens of a ruler who becomes crazy - crazy in terms of not wanting to apply the rulings of the courts or the Constitutional Court - of a despotic ruler. For this is article 155, so that it is complied with equally in any part of Spain, so that the rule of law is guaranteed. It is an article to protect the Spaniards, to protect the citizens, to protect the general interest. It is an article that, with a different title and a different number, exists in any democratic Constitution of the world, because it is the defense of the general interest and the rule of law that must prevail in any democracy of the world. Therefore, if the first thing fails and the second thing fails, that is, if the instruments I mentioned above fail, or if they do not absolutely fail and fail relatively, there is also the application of the 155, which has to be activated by the Government without any complexity, because it has not only the obligation but also the responsibility to act in this way and in this matter of article 97 of the Constitution, which says that what it has to do is precisely that, the defence of the State. It says: it is up to the government to defend the state. And for that it has many instruments, and one neither minor nor greater nor extraordinary is article 155 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u393	Mrs. Díez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u394	I'm done. Everything is rebuttable, of course, but what must not be feared is that the law will be enforced, that the rule of law will be strengthened and that we will all be able to live within a state of law where from the humblest citizen to the one who has the most power they must respect and comply with the law and comply with the decisions of the courts. The story of those who say you have to be afraid to do certain things I already know. Allow me, President, thirty seconds to finish my speech by reading a paragraph from an article by Fernando Savater published in August this year. He titled this article Nubarrones, but spoke of what is called the Catalan case, and said in his last paragraph that the process, in this case the unilateral declaration of independence, is not bad because it is illegal, it is illegal because it is bad for democracy. And he said, 'The worst thing would be for the state government to do nothing effective to prevent it. Some worry: Suspend autonomy? And then what? Incarcerated Mas? And then what? Similar questions were asked in the Basque Country when trying to end the double game of those who both wanted to be in Parliament and support ETA. Legalize Herri Batasuna? And then what? Incarcerated at HB's national table? And then what?'. Then, ladies and gentlemen, ETA stopped killing. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u395	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u396	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernando, you are so used to it and you are so left with your absolutist majority that today you have forgotten to bring the arguments, you do not need them, with your votes it is enough, but in democracy the arguments are important. The People's Party has already become a serious risk to democracy in this country. You believe that to perpetuate yourself in the government everything is worth, even to skip all the rules of the democratic game putting the coexistence of the citizens at risk. Today, once again, they use institutions not only partyly, but absolutely torturing. Today we are witnessing a new chapter of this very serious democratic deterioration, but this is not another chapter, it is not just any chapter. They want, no more or less, that the modification of the nature and functions of one of the pillars of the democratic system, the Constitutional Court, almost nothing. Moreover, they intend to do so without debate, without agreement with anyone, without having warned anyone, with traps to avoid the opinions of the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary. That's right, you come here and your first words are to praise the constitutional consensus. Is it possible to be more cynical politically than to praise the constitutional consensus on the same day that you are charging it again? Because every time they touch the Constitution it's to handle it and leave it in worse conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of mourning for the Constitutional Court but also for democracy, because this reform, the reform of the PP, is going to crush the Constitutional Court. They are not my words, they have been able to read them - surely - by Francisco Rubio Llorente, co-rapporteur of the Law of the Constitutional Court, member of the court for twelve years and former President of the Council of State. I think it's an opinion authorized enough for someone to listen to. In addition, he has told them that a reform of this line must be presented with a consensus text or at least attempt to do so. It cannot be presented as a proposal for an exclusive law of the People's Party. But no, that is not an error that has escaped the People's Party, that is a deliberate choice, of the many that have done during this legislature, because for the People's Party everything is worth keeping in power, in government, and also worth what they are going to do today. We are presented with a bill that has shown that it is simply at the service of its electoral strategy and, more specifically and in the short term, of the candidacy of the People's Party in the September 27 elections. It was clearly demonstrated by the staging of candidate Albiol, walking as he likes, like a farwest cowboy. Those who are not Catalans will have been surprised, but the Catalans, who are used to seeing him when he was mayor walking around the streets of his city intimidating immigrants, can assure them that he is. [[Applauds]] It wasn't just that day, it was. And that gentleman you want as President of the Generalitat. No, they didn't, they didn't. I do not know whether with this democratic manipulation they are going to fish a few votes, I hope that few, although that is what they want at state level. What is certain is that it feeds a dialectic of permanent conflict, that Mr Rajoy is so successful and now seems to be also interested in Mr Mas but, above all, it hinders the policy of dialogue and understanding. That's impossible. I do not know who is happier with this situation, if Mr Rajoy with the decision of Mr Mas to advance the elections and thus facilitating the best electoral pre-campaign that the People's Party or Mr Mas could have ever imagined seeing Mr Rajoy and the PP jumping from provocation to provocation and making the campaign to Mr Mas, who does not need it because with his attitude he already has enough. You are more and more like - if I may say so - Thelma and Louise at the end of the film, towards the abyss, but what a difference, you don't go in a car alone, you take the citizens of this country, of Catalonia and of Spain and when the time comes you are going to pull out of the car and you are going to let the citizens fall down the ravine. [[Applauds]] That's the misfortune. From this point of view, please be a little sensible, even if that goes against your nature. Today you are proposing a change in the nature of the Constitutional Court by giving it functions of ordinary justice and no matter how much you try to explain it there is no precedent of that nature, talk to the constitutionalists. In all those countries where it has been decided to separate what is judicial power from constitutional jurisdiction there are no ordinary functions in constitutional jurisdiction, there are no such functions, because that is what the judicial power is for. This is an unnecessary as cynical reform. Many constitutionalists have said so. It is unnecessary because there are mechanisms in our legal order to enforce the rulings of the Constitutional Court which, by the way, in the vast majority of cases are declaratory and it must then be the ordinary courts that enforce them; there are them, in the administrative litigation order, even in the criminal order, to achieve the same effect that you intend to achieve. What you're doing right now is loading everything. They are making a covert reform of the Constitution by changing the very nature of constitutional jurisdiction. But, in addition to being unnecessary - and you know it - it is absolutely cynical because the party that has mistreated the Constitution most presents itself here as its guarantor and defender. The party that has most abused the decree-laws during this legislature, the party that has been charged with the division of powers, the party that is able to colonize bodies such as the judiciary, such as the Constitutional Court, is presented as guarantor of the Constitution. [[Applauds]] Please leave the Constitution alone, which would be better without you defending it. It is necessary to be very, very cynical because, moreover, if someone has repeatedly failed to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court, it has been you. I personally have experienced four Constitutional Court rulings declaring the state's interference with occupational training for employment when it is the competence of the autonomous communities. And what have you done, and unfortunately not just you? Change the law to bypass the Constitutional Court's ruling. And you still have the flagrant non-compliance with the ruling on autonomous powers in the 0.7 % distribution, which you do not comply with because it does not come out of your testosterone, because you ultimately only comply with what you are interested in. And, with that baggage, with that little authority, they present themselves here saying that they are the guarantors of the Constitutional Court and of the execution of sentences. It takes little political shame to say such a thing, sincerely. The Constitutional Court has the function of ensuring the constitutionality of laws and giving protection to citizens in the exercise of fundamental constitutional rights; it is neither the police nor the police that supervises the relations of the powers of the State; it is not and if you are in charge of this function you will be charged with it. I insist, there is no country that has our structure of division of functions between the judiciary and the constitutional jurisdiction that does that. It is barbaric to confer on the Constitutional Court functions that are already available to ordinary courts. But, moreover, it is barbaric to claim that it can suspend from its functions and without prior process public employees and democratically elected authorities, the presidents of the autonomous communities and, as has been shown here, also the president of the nation. Here the difficulties in making a motion of censure are total and absolute - I don't know how many requirements have to be met - but instead the Constitutional Court can charge the President of the Government of the nation with executing the sentence. What a barbarity! By the way, what a manicheism his presentation. They present it as a proposal for a single case, a single person. Have you learned that the laws to be laws need to have a vocation of universality, that the laws ad hominem, that is, intended for a person or a specific case are the opposite of the rule of law and that this is how you are carrying it? And all for one thing, not only to manipulate and try to cast four votes, but to explain and kindly say that there is a problem of non-compliance with sentences, that there is a political conflict and that they solve it like this. No, listen, no! Political conflicts are resolved with democracy, with dialogue, not at the cost of rulings of the Constitutional Court. They're trying to get the Constitutional Court to do the dirty work on the PP, they're putting a political burden on the Constitutional Court that will eventually crush it. They are again words of Francisco Rubio Llorente who have already sounded in this room today and who warns them, and warns us all, that if this reform progress can end the Constitutional Court as before happened with the Constitutional Guarantees Court of the Republic - he continues to say - whose destruction contributed, and not little, to the destruction of the Republic. If those institutions that need authority for everyone to believe in them are the result of party colonization of a party, the democratic system is destroyed and destroyed in an i-re-ver-si-ble way. And that, for God's sake, I think some good constitutionalists and jurists who have the People's Group know that, but they don't dare say it in public because it embarrasses them, sure; I know, someone has told me in private. Because what cannot be in any way is that the People's Party continues to instrumentalize the Constitutional Court, it did so by challenging and achieving the unconstitutionality of articles of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia when identical articles in other statutes that the People's Party did not consider appropriate to challenge remain in force, why? Because in the background you do not discuss the sovereignty of the Spanish people. What they are using for many years is Catalanophobia to cast a few votes within Spain in the general elections. That's right, it's very hard, it's very vile, but it is. They have also done so by placing as president of the Constitutional Court someone who is not only a member of the People's Party but also governs the agenda of the Constitutional Court according to the political rhythms that interest his party. I'll give you some examples. The judgement regarding the Voluntary Pregnancy Interruption Act 2010 is still pending, why? Because it's the People's Party's interest that the sentence doesn't come out. Reveal the labor reform against the doctrine that the court has sitting without any justification for that change of doctrine. For some things it takes up to ten years. The Constitutional Court has just handed down a ruling on a conflict of jurisdiction presented by the Government of the Generalitat ten years ago, ten years ago! And for others, ten days. And that is what the President of the Constitutional Court does, governing the Constitutional agenda as if it were the agenda of his bars or his restaurants! That's what you've done. And now, because they don't have enough, it turns out they're putting him at the service of their state police strategy. You are going to charge the Constitutional Court and everything that that means. And in case it was not too much to present it with this shameful procedure not of an organic bill, they present it as a proposal of a single law of reading, of an emergency procedure. By the way, with the connivance - we must say so - of the President of the House. I really believe, Mr Hernando, that you do not need to defend the President of the House. Perhaps it would have been necessary for you not to put him on the verge of having to do what you have done against your conscience, because I am sure it is against your conscience. The only urgency there is for you, the only urgency is that you have decided to put Congress at the service of the candidacy of the People's Party. Yes, they have decided to put Congress at the service of the candidacy of the People's Party on 27 September, and they also do so with a procedure absolutely out of logic. To justify that, what arguments do you give us this afternoon? The one always - who's tired of us -. In the face of that cacicada, simply draw the argument of always, the sober excuse of the forty years of bipartisanism: you more, you also, you worse, you did it to me, you... The truth is that - forgive me - the Socialist Group sometimes deserves these things because we told it at the time, but society and the whole of Congress does not, and I want to explain it. When a House group in the opposition or in the Government uses a procedure by breaking the rules of the democratic procedure, it is legitimizing another group to use it, because things are not good or bad depending on who uses them but on whether or not the rules of the democratic procedure are broken. But that is not an argument; it is not an argument of bipartisanism forty years ago: you more and you worse. Today you have served us on tray another weight argument, and is that at this point and in this way you have completely exhausted the system born of the transition. You've shown it today, it's exhausted. When that system allows you to get caught like the ones you've done here, something doesn't work. We must give it a discontinuity, not to say a strong rupture; we must go to a rupture of that reality. If the current rules mean what's going on here today with this cacicada, it is that we must cause a break already! We must start a constituent process with new consensuses, with new dialogues, because it cannot be that in the name of the 1978 Constitution you are making the cacicadas that you are doing. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen - I am finishing - you cannot pretend that the demand for more democracy, the demand for the right to decide, the demand for a referendum, is only met with threats, not with democracy. And don't be mistaken, Mr Hernando, gentlemen of the PP, those who demanded a referendum were not only the people who were in the demonstration on September 11 dignifiedly, very dignifiedly and in a very peaceful and democratic way; it is not only them, there are many more who were not in the demonstration but who represent 80% of Catalonia's citizens. And do you think that 80% of Catalonia's citizens who call for a referendum with threats and sticks can be crushed? They've never made it, and they're not going to make it this way. That's what you should understand. We are facing a major political conflict that requires dialogue and democracy, there is no other way. You won't do it trying to silence the Catalans! And please stop using the name of the Catalans to interpret it, you and everyone else. I am not speaking on behalf of the Catalans, I simply say that 80% of Catalans ask for a referendum and you have come to say: It is that Catalans say, it is that Catalans think... Do you want to know what Catalans think? Let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's-let's- [[Applauds]] So, of course, with that vehemence, but democratic vehemence. [[Rumors]] Let us vote, yes. We're just asking you to let us vote. Let us vote in a referendum democratically as we have asked. I finish, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group. The democratic aspirations of Catalan society are not a joke or are over, they have only one way: the referendum. There is only one and you, and you, and we will eventually agree on that because there is only that way. [[pointing to all sides of the House]] When there is a political conflict: democracy, dialogue and a voice for citizens. And so that the will of the people of Catalonia can not misinterpret it anyone and be clear has only one way: referendum yes or yes. The sooner they understand it, the less collateral damage they will have the coexistence of this country and the necessary right of citizens and respect.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u397	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u398	As much as they continue to threaten us with sticks and send us Mr. Albiol with his typical chulesque attitude there... [[Rumors.-Protests.-Mr Floriano Corrales: The pimp is you!]] Yeah, I know what I'm talking about, I saw him for Badalona. [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u399	Mr. Coscubala, you finish already.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u400	I've seen him for Badalona intimidating immigrants, yes. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u401	Mr. Coscubala, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u402	Why do you think all the political forces in Catalonia have agreed to dismiss him as mayor? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u403	Mr. Coscubiela, I'll take your word for it. I've warned you three times that it's over. Please step down from the rostrum. You've lost your chance. Mrs Surroca has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d'Unió.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u404	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hernando, how incompetent we have heard this afternoon in this debate! Unfortunately, shame and incompetence! [[Rumors]] They are unable to give answers to a serious problem that we all have, ladies and gentlemen, all of us here and the Members of the Democratic Union of Catalonia we deeply regret. Ladies and gentlemen, to think that a proposal for a law will solve this serious problem is a very serious mistake, another clumsiness of the People's Party. No initiative put forward by a single parliamentary group is going to resolve this situation, nor is the denial or urgency or imposition of a single parliamentary group by a majority of that group. It is a grave mistake to impose a fine, a coercion, because the solution does not go through there, quite the contrary. And now you wash your hands on this problem and refer it to the Constitutional Court. It is already the Constitutional Court that resolves this situation! Ladies and gentlemen, you are very wrong, the only way, the only and indispensable way is dialogue, the pact and consultation, and we will not move from there. The Members of the Union will not move from that answer as much as you, Mr Hernando, have said here so joyfully that dialogue is the worlds of Yupi. But what did you think? What is politics if it is not dialogue? [[Protests]] Majority politics is nothing more than dialogue, agreement, consensus, and you squeeze the accelerator to take us to the abyss, to the train crash, to that train crash that is coming, and the consequences we are all going to suffer, ladies and gentlemen, all of us here and the citizens. [[Protests]] The most serious of all is the consequences for citizens in their day-to-day lives, and this has already been said by some spokesman who has preceded me in speaking. This will have consequences on cohesion, on coexistence, of course, ladies and gentlemen, and you are playing with this, as others have also played. They're playing, they're campaigning. Today we have heard speeches that are simply campaigning, and when some of us are talking about dialogue they miss the smile. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be, we cannot go on like this. [[Protests]] I insist, the only way is dialogue, it is the pact and it is the consultation so that Catalans and Catalans can decide their future freely. [[Protests]] That's the only way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u405	I'm asking for silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u406	They have instrumentalized the Constitutional Court. They have been doing it for a long time and, I insist, it is a very serious mistake. The Socialist Group's spokesman has already said that, and there is even a ruling from the Constitutional Court which made that point and demanded that the Government should have such a dialogue, which is the essence of politics. Moreover, this proposal implies the urgent reform of an organic law that forms part of the basic structure of the State. As you know, it is part of the constitutional bloc and you will approve it only with your votes, ladies and gentlemen, only with the votes of the People's Party. We ask ourselves: Is it legitimate? Of course it's legitimate, you have the majority. Is that the answer we need? Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the answer, definitely not. We know that they have the parliamentary majority, that this is allowed by the numerical majority, but a reform of this stalemate and that it will have the consequences that it will have is not welcome to be approved with the votes of a single parliamentary group. Besides, how do they do it? They do so through a bill, not even the Government has put forward the initiative. Therefore, there are no reports - as has already been said here - of institutions such as the Council of State. It is easier to do so, through the back door, urgently and in full electoral campaign. Besides, they don't even care to cover it up, ladies and gentlemen. Why? Because the candidate of the People's Party in Catalonia was the one who presented this initiative in the middle of the campaign, ladies and gentlemen. It's embarrassing what you're doing. Even forms deny the credibility of the need for this initiative. If you want to add more misunderstandings, as some of the previous speakers have already mentioned, we must take into account the Government's continued failure to comply with the rulings handed down by the Constitutional Court. If we're going this way, we're totally wrong. In addition, you have overtaken this initiative. Indeed, today you have the votes, but this initiative is totally electoral. You, as we have already said, are campaigning and not thinking only of 27 September, no, ladies and gentlemen, you are thinking even further, at the end of the year. On the one hand, on the other, and the problem is here, it is outside, it is on the street, because the citizens in Catalonia are unfortunately going to suffer the consequences of this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that our legal system has instruments to resolve the situation to which you refer. What you seek is to create a jurisdiction of exception, the exceptionality imposed and that, we insist, is not the way. It is regrettable and totally reprehensible that they no longer even conceal when it comes to politically instrumentalizing the Constitutional Court. Before the summer we also saw it, with the previous recourse of unconstitutionality; they did not have enough with that and now, on the return of the holidays, they go even further with another express reform, without any report of the Council of State. Don't you think it would be easier to sit down and talk, ladies and gentlemen? Don't you think it would be easier for that indispensable dialogue? It is absolutely necessary and we will not tire of claiming it. The Members of the Union will not tire of claiming it, in fact, this goes with the DNA of our parliamentary group: talking, dialogue, consensus and agreement. I am talking right now about the Members of the Union, I am speaking for whom I am speaking. I insist, our parliamentary group is not going to move away from that need to defend dialogue, ladies and gentlemen. That's the only solution, that's the way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u407	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u408	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing with indignation one of the most shameful events in this Congress of Deputies. We are witnessing the very serious irresponsibility, once again committed by the People's Party, of using Catalonia and the Catalans as an electoral instrument. I'll remind you how every time you've used Catalonia you've gone out of your way. Something has already been said about this. When it was approved l'Statut d'Autonomie de Catalunya you dedicated yourselves to using it and to using Catalonia. I would like to recall the phrase widely quoted by the media: Where is it to vote against Catalonia? And this was done in the face of the current president of the government. You did this instrumentation simply because you had one obsession or, rather, two. The first, the president of the government at that time, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, was the highest objective for you and since at that time the economy of the country worked, there was governability - we did not participate in it but the country worked - you found in l'Statut d'Autonomie de Catalunya, and therefore in Catalonia, an instrument of political action for your party objective - on the other hand, legitimate - to replace President Zapatero. They didn't make it, they failed unrepentantly. But do you know where they failed most? In Catalonia and you did it scandalously, just as you know that in the next parliamentary term Zapatero was president because in Catalonia you didn't have almost any deputies and the Socialist Party did. The second objective was not only to replace socialism here, but also in Andalusia and you believed that the campaign against Catalonia could be especially harsh and intense in Andalusia and also failed there. The Andalusians didn't forgive him. Now we have elections again - it looks like December 20th - and what's your strategy going to be? Again the same: let's get our hands on Catalonia. And we attend a whole assembly, which has already been explained here by active and passive, of instrumentalizing a whole series of aspects: now we are going to make a proposal of law, then we are going to use it, we are going to show firmness, we are going to say that the others are not firm, we are going to say that others do not defend the Constitution, the unity of Spain, only us... What's the instrument? Catalonia and the Catalans, again the same thing. And you're going to fail! First of all, they will fail on 27 September. [[Applauds]] They're going to fail. He has made me very graceful by saying: No, the socialists in Catalonia are nobody. Okay. Do you know where Pontons is? Awesome! [[Consent]] They have a great mayor, but he's the only one in Catalonia, the only one! And you teach anyone lessons? To us? Do you teach anyone lessons? [[Applauds]] They will fail, first of all, on 27 September. But their goal is not to stay in Pontons on 27 September; they will not only fail on 27 September, they will also fail on 20 December. They will fail because the Spaniards, the whole of Spanish citizens, are far smarter and more mature than what you are dealing with. A lot more! [[Applauds]] Do you think calling us tribe to an important part of Catalans is going to get more votes? Hey, I spent half a week in Madrid and nobody called me a tribe. I talk to people and I have coffee with you, with your deputies, and I don't have to hear you insult me. You have insulted me, my wife, my children, 1,800,000 people who went out on the street, and even Mr. Coscubiela, who didn't go out. [[Protests and applause]] You insulted us. [[Rumors]] You have insulted us and we will not tolerate it. You're insulting President Mas: delirium tremens. And you make another mistake and you're going to be wrong. I'll tell you why you're going to be wrong; why you've already been wrong. It's been said here today. I had a sentence, but my friend Aitor Esteban corrected it. I was going to say that you were going to approve the consideration of the first anti-person law of Spanish democracy. That's not true: I was before Ibarretxe. It's true. But you do now try to pass an anti-person law again. You have been missed twenty-five times by the words: President Mas. And you're going to be wrong about this, too. And you know why? Because we're not President Mas. [[Rumors]] President Mas and Romeva the candidate and Junqueras... We're already about 85,000 candidates. What are you going to do with these 85,000 candidates? Are we all going through the Constitutional Court? [[Applauds]] It's even gonna be so much fun. It's gonna be a lot of fun. These 85,000 - which I believe will grow - we will all be subject to the guardianship of the Constitutional Court and fined the figure of... Mr Montoro will laugh at the immense amount he will make with so many candidates and so many fines. They're going to fail. They're going to fail. You've talked about Ortega and Gasset and I'm going to quote you two sentences to see that Ortega and Gasset were already telling you eighty years ago. Ortega and Gasset said: It seems to me a frivolity to judge Catalanism as an artificial movement born out of the private whim of a few. Ortega and Gasset! 1920! And he said more, he said so much more; he said, for example, Ortega: Patriots with cardboard heads believe solved the formidable national problem - of Catalonia - if they are defeated in an election the lords - he said - Sota or Cambó. Now it would be Mr. Mas, Mr. Romeva and Mr. Junqueras. Well, no, the problem isn't solved like that. The problem is solved in many other ways: listening, letting vote and dialogue. You've talked about the law. We have always been for respect for the law. [[Rumors]] But look at you, 50 years ago, here, when this was prostituted by the Franchise Courts, 50 years ago there was a lot of talk about the rule of law. I've been reading minutes and the rule of law was coming out a lot, and I'm sure all of us here share that that wasn't a law worth defending. To defend the law it has to be fair, democratic, treated, discussed, elaborated, agreed. [[Protests]] This is the good law and this is what we believe you are not able to do. A sample button is the processing of this law. [[Protests Continue]] Don't make them scary.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u409	Mr. Macias, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u410	I'm finishing up. They're going to allow me simply to end an expression of someone you haven't quoted and who could have quoted, who was Pau Casals. In 1971 Pau Casals told the United Nations: This reference to an exiled person, a persecuted person who was welcomed as a spokesman for peace at the United Nations is the message of the Catalanism that I represent. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Mr. Hernando Fraile asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u411	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u412	Mr President, for Rule 71, because I believe personal remarks have been made.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u413	For those personal allusions you have a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u414	Mr. Pere Macias, under no circumstances have you been in my spirit or in my words any personal allusion against you or, much less, against your family. To talk about the tribe is to talk about those people who use feelings of nationalism to exclude other people and consider that all those who do not think like them belong to something different and that, therefore, in Catalonia they do not even have the right to choose the schooling system of their children, as we have seen today. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Your Honor, this is what unfortunately happens in Catalonia to some families; those families should also have their protection, with your help, with your protection, because they are as Catalan as you are. We have encouraged dialogue with you whenever we have been able and I believe that these Courts are full of that dialogue. Regrettably, it is you who have in recent times moved towards a diatribe in which - you see - you are not even able to understand yourself with the coalition with which you presented yourselves to these elections. Thank you very much. [[Mr Macias i Arau asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u415	Mr. Macias, you have a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u416	I am grateful that I was affectionately excluded from the tribe, but we are part of this tribe of citizens of the world. Just a clarification: the Catalan education system is governed by a law which was widely agreed, with a large majority, and which is being applied - it and the judgments - with the utmost rigour. [[Protests]] And also with a very, very remarkable success. Sample button: last year you have dedicated 5 million theoreticians to schooling in Spanish; this year you have only had to put one because of the 5 million there was only a small number of requests. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u417	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. After this debate is over, I am pleased that Mr Quadra is coming in right now because I want to address him. I did not take the floor in your speech because you were finishing, but I do want to make it clear that I consider what you have done by breaking the Constitution, even if symbolically, unacceptable and reprehensible. In my opinion, you have failed to comply with Rule 103.1 of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I am making this clear here, so that it can appear in the 'Diary of Sessions'. [[Mr. Quadra Lasarte asked for the floor. Protests.- A lady MP: Have him expelled]] Mr. Quadra.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u418	Mr President, as I have said expressly in my speech, I was criticizing a part of the Constitution that is important to us... [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u419	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u420	... that has to do with the indissoluble and indivisible unity, the exclusive sovereignty. [[Protests]] Democracy, from our point of view, is ultimately guaranteed... [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u421	Quiet. Please let me explain.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u422	...not in a democratic way, but in a barracks, and to that extent I have taken out two pages of the Constitution that reflected that. If that is understood as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that means that freedom of expression in this House... [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] [[Strong Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u423	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u424	...it's tremendously squared and it's also tremendously partial, because we throughout the legislature have had to endure very strong accusations in which we have been cut off from everything, without anyone... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u425	Mr. Quadra, I have already given you the floor and you have already used it. I would like to reiterate to you again that what you have done is inadmissible. In this rostrum we have been able to say everything, and we have tried, or I have tried in everything I have been able to, that if there was any offense left or someone felt alluded to, give him the word, and I tell him that this that you have done is reprehensible and, I insist, I think it breaks Article 103.1. You will feel what you think, but you no longer have the floor. I think it's a closed incident, but I want it to be clear. [[Several Members: No, no!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u426	We continue with the agenda on the amendments approved by the Senate to the bill for partial amendment of Law 58/2003 of 17 December, General Tax. Position-fixing turn. Mr Calduch has the floor for the UPyD Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u427	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the Commission we have already had the opportunity to express our opinion on the General Tax Act - which, by the way, none of our amendments have been accepted - and we have now seen with amazement that when it returned from the Senate the amendments that have been adopted there have not been to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u428	Wait a minute, Mr. Calduch. Please, the one who wants to leave the plenary, let him do it in silence. Go ahead, Mr. Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u429	Thank you very much. ... to improve a wording that, in our opinion, was perfectly technically improveable, for two reasons. It was better because it was a law that from the legal point of view generated defencelessness and legal insecurity, that is, for the benefit of the inspectors of the Treasury and their competitive activity, and it was also better because we already considered some of the texts of the law abusive. Well, now it's come from the Senate even worse. For example, we have already warned that the use of electronic means for declarations, liquidations, etc. could not be generally imposed simply because there is a sector - curiously the most socially vulnerable - that is barely functionally literate and unable to use the complexity of electronic means of taxation with a minimum of rigour. We have set up an amendment that was not accepted, that imposed priority, but not exclusivity, and now we have sanctions - I would point out because I am interested in highlighting it - so that the false data in a self-liquidation or declaration is sanctioned with EUR 150 and instead, not using the electronic medium is sanctioned with EUR 250. That's barbarity, that's rape. I'm done. Our parliamentary group is going to oppose these amendments because we do not want to go from being citizens to being tax servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u430	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr. Centella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u431	Madam President, as has already been said, amendments from the Senate do not improve the law. The truth is that they don't have much meaning either, and that's why my group is going to abstain in all of them, even though it does, maintaining our critical position in relation to this law. This law is a missed opportunity, as it does not solve the basic problems of our tax system, serious problems that make there are more leaks and more blowjobs than there should be. This should have an explanation, because when groups make positive proposals - the opposition is usually accused of never making proposals, that we always say no and do not propose alternatives - and my group has made proposals, you have rejected them. It is a pity because our tax system has good professionals and there was the possibility of preventing us from having 80 billion euros less income; when you are proposing cuts, when you are proposing a clearly regressive policy, that we should go by blowjobs 80 billion euros is a contradiction. If there was no alternative, that would be a serious matter, but if there is one it is very serious and it makes you accomplices by omission of this situation. My group maintains that there is legislation that needs to be amended, another task for the next Parliament, in which you will not have a majority, but it has been lost some time that has made this country, that this state ceases to have income. My group therefore maintains the abstention, but above all it maintains a very critical position with this law. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u432	Thank you, Mr. Centella. Mr Picó has the floor for the Convergence I d'Unió Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u433	Thank you, Madam President. I said in the debate on the whole of this bill that we faced it from the need to secure three important principles. Firstly, to preserve the rights of the taxpayer; secondly, to apply the principle of legal certainty in tax proceedings; and thirdly, to reduce litigation in the tax system. With the text that follows from the parliamentary procedure, I must tell you that the reform of the General Tax Law does not comply with any of these principles; on the contrary, it is a reform that contains measures that limit the rights of the taxpayer recognized in the Taxpayer's Statute, that gives power to the Tax Administration from our overly disproportionate perspective to the detriment of the taxpayer himself and his defence, and that limits above all the rights of those taxpayers with less economic power, and all this to the detriment of legal certainty, equality and the defence of the rights of the taxpayer. The bill they will pass today contains measures that articulate an excessively discretionary power of the tax administration, which does not sufficiently guarantee the rights of taxpayers vis-à-vis the Treasury, especially for subjects such as small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed workers and citizens, and creates great legal uncertainty and inequality in the administered relationship and administration. I am not going to go into all the assumptions that we do not share and which contain the bill because we are already in the debate in the Commission and then in plenary. I would just like to refer to the amendments adopted in the Senate procedure, which do not deserve a good rating from my group either. Article 199 of the General Tax Act is amended, as prescribed in the CORA, by reducing the fixed amount of a sanction, but by disproportionately and unjustifiably extending the illegal tax, in contravention of the principle of legal certainty in particular. In addition, the legitimacy of the State to apply Title VIII of the General Tax Act in the case of regional aid is broadened. As I said to them, in short, they are measures that articulate an excessively discretionary power of the tax administration, do not guarantee the rights of taxpayers vis-à-vis the Treasury and create new legal uncertainty and inequality in the administered-administration relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bad, very bad reform of the General Tax Law. Our negative vote in the first approval by Congress was unanimous and explicit. On his return now after his passage through the Senate we will re-vote firmly not a bad text that only brings insecurity and does not guarantee the rights of citizens. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u434	Thank you, Mr. Picó. For the Socialist Group, Mr Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u435	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, a modern economy, a modern productive system, a growth based on knowledge and innovation are incompatible with unjust institutions that favour the government party, or that favour the powerful, or that are inefficient. The most prosperous economies in the world are based on institutions that have a high degree of confidence on the part of all actors and citizens. This involves quality public services, reduced tax fraud and also highly competitive companies. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the tax policy of the Government has been in the process of favouring the powerful, friends of the Government and also the party of the Government. I recall the fiscal amnesty that has been welcomed by leaders of the People's Party, which has been welcomed by virtually all known and, in general, defrauding plots of corruption in the country. It has been an indecent and also unnecessary tax amnesty. On the other hand, successive scandals at the Tax Agency have contributed to citizens' mistrust. They have perceived that the laws are applied differently depending on their relationship with the Government. For this government and for this Treasury you have so much, so much value. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the General Tax Law and its connection with the amendment of the Organic Law on the Judiciary should have contributed to building more just institutions, should have amended the government's tax policy, but they have not done so. In our view, the functioning of the institutions is even more important than the means for the functioning of the institutions; indeed, the number of people involved in the fight against fraud has been reduced by 2,800 throughout the legislature. Therefore, we have opposed these laws, we have tabled amendments to all these two laws mainly for two reasons. Firstly, because the Government does not want to publish - and could do so by amending article 95 of the General Tax Act - the names of the defrauders who have taken up the tax amnesty. From our point of view, there is not going to be a real democratic regeneration or total trust in the institutions unless the list of fraudsters and criminals who have taken up the tax amnesty is published. The Government does not want this list to be published, and this is the first reason why we have opposed these two laws. Secondly, because the Government is not going to publish the list of fraudsters for tax offences or administrative sanctions, which the Minister of Finance has been promising for almost three years. They won't even publish the list of convicted fraudsters. They are going to publish the list of convicted persons who cannot pay or endorse their sentence, who cannot buy their amnesty; that is, who cannot buy their pardon. The list of fraudsters for administrative sanctions will not be published if they pay, not even for those with, for example, an administrative penalty of EUR 900,000. In short, unfortunately, the amendment of the General Tax Act does not change the tax policy of the Government, a policy that has favored a few, which has favored the big fraudsters. It is therefore a general tax law that does not allow the list of those who received the tax amnesty to be published. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u436	Thank you, Mr. Saura. For the People's Group, Mr López-Amor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u437	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall proceed urgently with the corresponding parliamentary procedure following the Senate's return to this House of the draft reform of the General Tax Law. Two amendments have been incorporated into the Senate which, of course, our parliamentary group will support. These are fundamentally technical amendments, such as the obligation to present tax obligations with economic significance in a telematic way and, secondly, to make it possible for the public finances to recover State aid which does not originate from a decision of the European Commission. In all other respects, the text already adopted by this House on 7 June 2015 has been maintained and, therefore, as the lawyers would say at a hearing, we have definitively raised the conclusions we made during the month of July in the proceedings in this House. We would like to highlight, despite the many provisions contained in the draft, those that are considered most novel. Firstly, we consider very progressive the advertising of the late ones with the Public Finance, which has a principle of exceptionality with regard to the reservation of tax data contained in article 95 of the General Tax Act and which is made with an exceptional and assessed character: only the late ones whose amount of the debt, that is, of the quota plus the penalty, is more than one million euros and, secondly, when the payment had not been paid in a voluntary period, not being deferred or suspended the debt. In this case, this measure, which is not, I repeat, punishing, albeit distressing, and only the minimum data required from these defendants will be published. Secondly, the conflict of application of the rule, which has been a legislative evolution since the General Tax Act 1963, and the General Tax Act of 2003, is also very new, in which it is considered that the use of improper or unusual acts to achieve tax evasion or evasion should be regularized with the corresponding interest of delay. In this particular case, already our General Tax Act 2015 gives it a sanctioning character and is therefore considered a tax infringement. I would like to refer to a very important aspect, as is the statute of limitations. We all know that the statute of limitations set out in article 66 of the General Tax Act is a general statute of limitations, which refers to the four-year period. The statute of limitations is an institution that serves legal certainty and is now supplemented in this draft law by the amendment introduced in articles 115 and 66 bis of the draft. I said it and I repeat it: This amendment must be interpreted restrictively, sensu stricto, without making academic nuance between the right to liquidate and the right to verify. Only the Administration may verify compensated or outstanding bases or quotas or deductions applied or outstanding within a maximum period of 10 years, provided that they have effect in unprescribed periods. The draft that will be adopted today by the House completes a legislative battery and all the legislative actions that this government has done throughout the legislature. All this battery of standards has the following objectives. First, to establish a fiscal discipline, since Organic Law 2/2012, on Budget Stability, allowed us to return to the fiscal balance that the Socialist Party abandoned and that it has forced us to have to reduce the deficit from 9.1% of GDP to 2.8 of the General Budgets of the State of 2016, reinforcing with budgetary and fiscal discipline the welfare state and laying the foundations for solid growth. Secondly, the objective of this entire regulatory battery is to recover tax collection. The 2007 crisis caused the collection to fall from 2007 to 2009 by EUR 60 billion, putting the welfare state in grave danger. Law 16/2012, on Tax Measures for the Consolidation of Public Finances, contained, it is true, tax measures contrary to our political DNA, which is to lower taxes, but which were necessary to prevent the bankruptcy of the State and which we have been able to reverse in the last year. Thirdly, the aim was to combat tax fraud. Law 7/2012, called the Anti-Fraud Act, made it clear at the legislative level that the PP government would be relentless with fraud, evasion and tax evasion. The results in the fight against fraud support this statement. The Public Treasury has raised €44 billion in what we have been in the legislature, 5 billion more in six months less than in the previous socialist legislature, according to the latest known data. Fourthly, efforts were made to create an enabling environment for growth and job creation. The loss of employment between 2007 and 2011, as a result of the crisis, has led not only to a crack in social cohesion, but to an increase in inequality, so employment growth has been the first goal of this government, and all measures... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u438	Wait a minute, Mr. Lopez-Love. Please, I ask Members present in the plenary to keep a minimum of silence so that they can listen to the speaker, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u439	The Government's priority objective has been to create such an enabling environment for job creation and has adopted, among other measures, the Law on the Control of Commercial Debt in the Public Sector and established the Supplier Payment Fund. This has enabled our Government to pay more than 9 million invoices for 261,000 suppliers, making it possible to maintain 400,000 jobs and to be a model of job creation in the European Union today. These were the objectives behind all the tax reform that has been taking place, as I said, throughout the legislature and which we are now closing with the adoption of amendments to the General Tax Act. This tax reform obviously includes the Law on Reform of the IRPF, the Law on Income Tax for Non-Residents, Corporate Tax, Value Added Tax, the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands and, finally, the General Tax Act. We have achieved a simpler tax system, sufficient to maintain the welfare state and to protect the most disadvantaged, as has been seen in the State's General Budgets, which allows aid to the family or the disabled, as well as to fight effectively against all tax fraud. Today, therefore, the regulatory cycle is closed with this General Tax Act. This is the fundamental rule governing the legal-tributory relations between the State in the exercise of the power of empire and the taxpayers, bearers of fundamental rights but also of obligations contained in our Constitution. This law retains the codifying character in its field and achieves among its objectives the fight against tax fraud, adapting the norm to the new economic realities. Therefore, the necessary balance between the positive tax rule and the proportionality of its punishment appears to be achieved in this General Tax Act. The tension created by tax measures has allowed the welfare state not to break and grow as we are growing in the 3-3.5% of GDP environment. All these measures taken by our Government allow us to say that it is more difficult to defraud, that we are once again increasing the taxpayer base and its taxable bases, in short, and I conclude that we will all pay so that we can pay less. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u440	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez-Amor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-16-CD150916.u441	We move on to the next debate, which is the last item on the agenda. I beg a minimum of silence, please. It's impossible. I understand we're all exhausted. We conclude the agenda with the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Won't the Group of the Plural Left intervene? [[Denial]] As you know, there is an agreement by which if the groups want to intervene they have five minutes. Mr. Centella had asked but now he says no. Is there a group that wants to intervene? [[Pause]] None. Will a vote be taken by consensus or does any group call for a separate vote? [[Pause]] The first agreement shall be voted on separately. We shall call a vote and in a few minutes we shall vote. [[Pause]]
