ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u1	The meeting was resumed. Questions to the President of the Government. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Aitor Esteban of the Basque Group. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, vocational training in Euskadi I would say that it is leading, selective, within the State as a whole, with dual training which is a reference and which seeks a model of excellence beyond basic vocational training and, therefore, with many particularities. On the one hand, legislative, because there are competences according to the statute of autonomy and because there was a real decree of transfers, 1441/2010, of transfer of functions in services in the field of vocational training for employment, which orders that things be managed in a certain way and, on the other, by the system of economic concert at the time of financing. This therefore requires that, with regard to the forms of management, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country can use all of them, from social security contribution subsidies to competitive competition subsidies, etc. It is also possible to combine its reality that, as we have said before, it is quite specific in terms of industrial fabric and in terms of specialization of vocational training, beyond the general structure that may be established by law, and that there is competence to accredit and register the training institutions, as well as the sanctioning power with regard to the obtaining and the possible misuse of the bonuses, or even the functions of programming, management and control in the centres of the Basque Country, beyond the possibility that this group may have centres in other autonomous communities. That is why I ask you whether the Government is prepared to negotiate corrections to the draft law for the urgent reform of the vocational training system.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u3	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much, Mr Esteban. You know why this royal-decree law has been made that is not intended to take away from anyone any competence that corresponds to it under the law in force. The aim of this legislature, as you know, and it will have to be the next, is economic growth and job creation in our country and, above all, to establish solid foundations for the future so that this job creation can be maintained over time. We have made many reforms, you know them, I am not going to repeat them here; but this reform that we are referring to today is crucial, mainly because to have a job today we need, of course, economic activity, but we also need to improve training in Spain. Spain, in the future, will have to compete with trained people and with innovation and not with anything else. You know that training didn't work in Spain as we all wanted it to work, everyone knew it. I believe that this change, this reform is important, training is opened to competition, everyone will be able to show up, win the best, there will be no monopolies, there will be quality assessments, information, control and sanctions if there is fraud; and we have tried to do so with the utmost respect for all the autonomous communities. The aim is not, as I said at first and you know perfectly well, another that can increase employment in our country. I insist: do not take away anyone's skills. Good proof of this is that we have agreed to treat this royal-decree law as a bill and therefore what we want and what we do with it is to express our willingness that we are willing to reach understandings on this matter with you or with any other political group. I insist: the issue we are concerned about is making a useful vocational training reform that improves training and makes it possible to create more jobs in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u6	Mr President, the competences of the Basque Country are not those of another autonomous community, they are special. [[Rumors]] And I have to tell you that my question is not a ballad because this would be the fifth time in this legislature in which the competences in active employment policies are not respected: from Royal Decree-Law 1/2013, Law 18/2014, Royal Decree-Law 16/2014, Royal Decree-Law 1/2015 - all of them already appealed by the Basque Government - and now it would be, again, this law that is in process. Competition is not the same because, among other things, the system of economic concert of the autonomous community must be respected and it has not been done in all these decrees that I have mentioned before. And, on the other hand, the State Public Employment Service, instead of Lanbide, the Basque service, continues to intervene, despite the actual decree already agreed in 2010.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u7	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u8	I would just like to reiterate to you that the deadline for amendments is, I think, final on 22 May, and what I can tell you is that with regard to what is said by the legislation in force and by the Constitutional Court itself, we are prepared to talk to your group to try and find a satisfactory solution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF MR CARLOS MARTÍNEZ GORRIÁN, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DIRECTOR MARÍA DÍEZ GONZALEZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS UNION AND DEMOCRACY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO RECOVER THE INVESTMENT IN THE BANKING RESPONSE THAT IT IS FOR LOST AND BELIEVING TO ALL SPAINERS? [[File number 180/001312]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u9	Question to the President of the Government, by Mr Carlos Martínez Gorriarán, of the Parliamentary Group on Progress Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to ask you, on behalf of my group, what your Government is planning to do to return the sixty-one billion euros invested in the rescue of savings banks so far, from which, as you know and according to the Bank of Spain, only something like 4.3% has been recovered. Bearing in mind that the shares that the FROB still has - that is, the State - in these rescued entities do not cover that amount much less, we want to know what you have planned to return the taxpayers - which is where that money came from - the 58,829 million euros outstanding missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u11	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. I'm going to the bottom of the matter and then I'm going to get into the issue that you're worried about. When we arrived at the Government, as you know, a substantial part of the Spanish financial system was broken and there were two options. The first, letting financial institutions break down, which would have meant the loss of all jobs, the loss of people's deposits, the loss of investment funds and pension plans, the loss of confidence in our country and, of course, there would have been no credit recovery. This was a very respectable option. And there was another that had been followed by the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, France and countries, already in another situation, such as recently Cyprus, Greece or Portugal, which is trying to save the financial system in order to prevent such perverse effects from occurring. We opted for this second option, like all the others, which seemed to us the most reasonable. We asked for credit from the European Union, we were given 100 billion and we used 39,000, a ten-year deficit period and an interest rate below 1. When are you going to recover or how are you going to recover this? At the moment, the state - as you know - is the majority owner of an important bank such as Bankia, from there we will privatize it but we will wait for the best conditions in the market with the aim of achieving the greater recovery of all the amount that has been borrowed and that has a period of ten years' shortage and an interest rate below 1%. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u14	Thank you for your accounting data, Mr President, but I am afraid that is not the bottom line. I will tell you this because many members of your government and you yourself have said many times that this rescue - for several years now, since 2012 in particular - would not cost citizens a single euro. You yourself said a phrase summarizing the situation from your point of view. He said in 2012: It is a credit to the bank that will pay the bank itself. The facts are quite different and this is disturbing. Let us remember, for example, that the Bank of Sabadell stayed with the Mediterranean Savings Bank for one euro, and that really is not a normal credit or a credit that the bank is going to pay, it is a gift. The rescue of the Galician boxes that were later acquired by the Venezuelan group Banesco cost us 8 billion euros, and that is already lost money, obviously. You have spoken of Bankia and indeed the state is the main shareholder. Bankia has recently held a shareholders' meeting where it has already talked about profit sharing. Man, don't you think Bankia's first priority should be to return to the state and therefore to taxpayers as much as possible of the EUR 24 billion we need to activate the economy, to create jobs, to invest in R & D+i, education, health, etc.? The question is still the same, she hasn't answered me. What are you going to do? Are you going to make a tax cut to compensate citizens? Are we going to see measures to readmit the farewells, which many of these entities did to the EREs in their own bank expansions, that in the end this is what has happened? Are you going to make up for the cuts that have been made in recent years in order to calm the financial system? Because it is very good to say that there were two alternatives, but there was never a real debate about those alternatives or their consequences, what has actually happened is a bailout from the bank that has finally benefited private banking and that has meant the disappearance of that kind of public banking that was the boxes made with savings from small savers, SMEs, deposits from public institutions, etc. And this is the question, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u15	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u16	I insist, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran, there were two options. If we had let the financial institutions break, who would have paid the taxpayers' deposits? What was going on with the jobs? What happened to investment funds or pension schemes? What happened to the loss of confidence in our country? That was an option, but no one bet on that option in Europe, no one. There is no country that simply let its financial institutions break down and I believe that there have been beneficial effects. We have regained confidence in the financial system inside and outside Spain, the stress tests the ECB has put us at the head of Europe, credit has returned to our country, the risk premium has fallen, we are financing ourselves at incredibly low prices and of course as never happened in our history, people have their deposits and their work. And what are we going to do? We will privatize Bankia that will have an important value when that value is the best in the market. At this time Bankia - as you know - is a public entity and therefore the owner is the state and therefore the Spanish taxpayers, but the idea is to put it on the market so that...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEVELOPED PEDRO SÁNCHEZ PEREZ-CASTEJON, OF THE SOCIALIST GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE SITUATION OF YOUNG PEOPLE IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/001301]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u18	Question to the President of the Government by Mr Pedro Sánchez, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, I would like to hear your opinion on the situation of young people in our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u20	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez, the main problem that young people have in our country, such as the whole of Spanish society, is unemployment, which prevents an independent life project. It has been the main objective of this legislature and it will have to be the next, as I have said on many occasions, job creation. I can say that there are already positive data at this time. We were starting from an impossible situation, but there has already been a change in trend, although we still have a lot to do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, if you didn't read the papers that write to you and speak with your heart, you would see that it is impossible to say that young people live better since you are President of the Government. [[Protests]] The bad thing that has happened during these three and a half years is not the erraticness of your government's economic policies, but you presume that. You brag about it, Mr. Rajoy. I will give you a fact that certifies the failure of your economic policy and your triumphalist economic discourse: 2 million young people under the age of thirty-four are unemployed in our country. I do not know what you presume, Mr Rajoy, because, as a result of the negligence of your Government, for example, the Youth Guarantee Plan has not been developed over the past year, and as a result only 4% of the young unemployed have taken up that plan. So what do you presume, Mr. Rajoy? What is happening in this country as a result of its economic policies is that right now young people are unemployed or tied to the wheel of job insecurity. Seven out of ten young recruits are part-time, on a temporary basis. You make it difficult and very difficult for young people to work, and you do something else, make it difficult and very difficult for young people to train, because what you have done has been to raise university fees by 40%; you have cut scholarship amounts by 600 euros, that is, an average of 20% compared to what you inherited in 2011, and to a country that in 2011 was the leader in Erasmus scholarships, with an investment of more than 60 million euros, you have left it at just over 35 million euros over the past three and a half years. So you only offer young people two options: one, the passport, and two, the INEM. These are the solutions you are offering to young people. And as a result there are 500,000 young people who have left Spain in recent years because there are no opportunities in Spain, what Mrs Báñez calls external mobility. But I'll tell you one thing. Do not be surprised if those 2 million young people who are unemployed, who are abandoned to their fate as a result of the helplessness of the Government of Spain, and their families in very short time to those who are going to leave unemployed, are you and your entire Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u24	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u25	My papers are written by me, Mr. Sanchez. [[Applauds]] I am not like you, whom we saw in the debate about the state of the nation reading a reply. In any case, I would recommend that you also write the papers, among other things to speak with property. To say here that 500,000 young people have left Spain is a lie. It's exactly 24,638, I have it written here, according to the National Institute of Statistics. [[Applauds]] That is why it is convenient for you to write the papers, for which it is good that you read something before. It seems to me that you are not the best person to boast of job creation. In the last parliamentary term, 1,771,517 young people's jobs were lost in Spain. Therefore, feeling it very much I cannot accept any lesson from you. What I can say to you for your satisfaction is that if you had read - and written something too - about the latest EPA you could see how there are already fewer young people unemployed today than when we arrived in the government in 2011, that the EPA says that the occupation of young people is growing by 4.7% and that the social security data for the last month say that the employment is growing by 9.2%. Therefore, you should write, and above all you should read, and you should know what an economic policy that creates employment, which is what is happening now in Spain, and not an economic policy like that you practiced, that all you did was destroy employment. Its economic policy is a turnaround, it is a turnaround to an era that we are fortunately already over, because, fortunately, today in Spain economic growth is taking place - the first growing European Union country - and job creation is taking place, 440,000 people last year found a job, 600,000 are going to find it now, so we are already beginning to recover the jobs that were lost in Spain when you were in government. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking for silence, please. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs MeritxELL BATET LAMANA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT NEW AMENDMENTS TO THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING? [[File number 180/001303]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u27	Question to the Minister for Justice. Mrs Meritxell Batet of the Socialist Group asked.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u28	Thank you, President. Minister, does your Government propose to punish the media for exercising the right to information?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Batet. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u30	Thank you, President. Mrs. Batet, not at all. This Government is working to promote a strengthening of our rule of law, a strengthening of the system of guarantees and public freedoms and this is not a rhetorical statement, it is a brief summary of the package of legislative reform measures that in this House and in the Senate today are, for example, under debate or have already been approved as the victim's status, as has been the Criminal Code, as has been the strengthening of the system of insurance of compensation to victims of accidents, such as the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act. Therefore, what this Government is doing, what is on the Government's agenda, in the projects presented in this House, all goes in the same direction: to strengthen our rule of law and our system of guarantees. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u31	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u32	Thank you, President. Minister, your government has worked for four years to damage and restrict civil rights and freedoms. I will put three indisputable cases - they have done so from the government and they have done so from the opposition -: they question the freedom of people to marry whomever they want; they question the freedom of women to decide on their motherhood and they have restricted, by law, something as important as the freedom to manifest themselves. But also in the area of freedom of information they have restricted and damaged this essential freedom: they have imposed and broken the consensus to elect the president of Spanish Radiotelevision and have imposed it twice on us in this legislature; they have ended the information pluralism of this public body, also damaging the freedom of professionals working in this public body; they have introduced, by law, a serious sanction for graphic reporters who broadcast images of police officers, the State Security Forces and Corpses. Many journalists in the private media have denounced pressure from his Government. Minister, harming freedom of information is not harming any freedom, because talking about freedom of information is talking about the cornerstone of our democratic system. In the words of the Constitutional Court, it is the essence of the construction of a free and plural society. Therefore, they are attacking freedom in capital letters, freedom, all of it. You are very liberal to privatize hospitals, you are very liberal to sell public housing to vulture funds, but you are very interventionist and very restrictive in recognizing, empowering and expanding public freedoms, fundamental rights, rights and civil liberties. They are very parks when it comes to recognizing the personal sphere. You only believe in a freedom, in the freedom of the market and economic, but you do not believe in the freedom of citizens when they develop as individuals and when they decide in their personal sphere. You practice an inverted liberalism, Minister, which is, in fact, the expression of the most rascal conservatism and the most rascal right in all of Europe. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs Batet. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Batet, I am sorry to disagree absolutely with all the considerations. If something has been done in this legislature from this side of the House, it is to promote legislative reforms that, as I said, strengthen our rule of law, strengthen guarantees, strengthen public rights, and each and every measure has been directed in that direction. By the way, you also mentioned in passing the privatization of hospitals when the Constitutional Court recently revealed that, in the face of the mess that some organized on the occasion of a project to improve the management of Madrid's health, it is fully constitutional. [[Rumors]] Therefore, there did not seem to be any blemish of illegality in that process. On the other hand, all the reforms, as I say to you, Your Honor, are absolutely oriented in that direction. It would be very good if you would also inform the House, because perhaps you do not know what position the Socialist Group is holding in the European Parliament on the occasion of the presumption of innocence directive because you are doing very well there, in the European Parliament, when you are saying that there should not be parallel trials, there should not be early convictions and that the right to information should be co-honored with the rights to individual freedoms. You are doing this magnificent work in the European Parliament and certainly here, when we have to transpose the European directive to be adopted at the end of the year, we will also have to talk about this issue. Your Honor, less artificial debates and more debates stuck on the ground. We will be delighted to receive, in all the reforms we are developing in the area of improving justice and strengthening fundamental rights, the amendments of your ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the improvements that these laws can incorporate and, as I pointed out at the beginning, to work towards strengthening the system of freedoms in our country. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN ASSOCIATION OF THE HERAS LADERA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF IU, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT ADOPTING TO RESOLVE THE LABORAL CONFLICT OF CORREOS? [[File number 180/001297]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u36	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. I beg your silence, please. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Ascension de las Heras from the Plural Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. What steps is the Government taking to resolve the conflict in Post Offices?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u38	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, the negotiations on the collective agreement are taking place in recent months with some significant progress. The Government trusts that such progress will avoid any conflict because the important thing for everyone, starting with the postal workers, is to guarantee stability in employment, also to promote the action of the postal workers that has in mind and future, that is, by framing the negotiation of this agreement in the patterns of collective bargaining of public enterprises approved by the Government Delegated Commission for Economic Affairs and, of course, as set out in the Law on General Budgets of the State. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u40	Thank you, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u41	Mr Montoro, the Government has for too long shown total apathy and abandonment as responsible for ensuring the provision of the public postal service and for implementing the development of an action plan in Post Offices that will enable the necessary modernisation of the largest public enterprise that is left behind the long list of privatizations that count on the possession of the People's Party. During this post office, 11,000 jobs have been amortized and since the negotiation of the agreement, involving 52,000 workers already a year and a half ago, you have done nothing but refuse to negotiate and promote conflict while keeping managers and their salaries even in some cases with scandalous increases. The irresponsibility of your Government, Mr Montoro, leads us to keep open a labour dispute that goes on unsolved. The unions decided to stop it last November in anticipation of a dialogue solution and now, after all these months of unanswered waiting, in the midst of the electoral campaign you have several strikes called, tomorrow and past itself, 14 and 15 May. Mr Montoro, the postal workers are defending public work, fighting precariousness when they call for the conversion of temporary jobs into fixed jobs and demanding the recovery of the basic labour rights they have lost during all these years. You, with your closure and incapacity for dialogue, are solely responsible for the resurgence of the labour conflict in the midst of the electoral process. And now it is up to us to ensure that workers exercise their constitutional right to strike and citizens exercise their right to vote by mail. We doubt, Mr Montoro, that the Government is respecting these rights when minimum services are being imposed with a margin of between 70 and 100 per cent of the workforce. Temporary contracts for strike days are being formalized for overtime; workers are being pressured to be able to distribute electoral consignments when they are volunteering. You can't...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u42	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to remind you and the House that the Government has channelled the job claims of Post Offices through a functional mobility plan for public employees of the company who have the opportunity to provide services at the Tax Agency. According to the information available as of April, 240 employees of the company have expressed interest in providing services at the Tax Agency. This is an offer that remains open and can also benefit hundreds of other postal employees. Furthermore, the Government understands that the improvement of the economic and budgetary situation is making it possible to increase the quality of employment and to consolidate existing temporary employment. To this end, we are considering the application of a legal amendment that will facilitate the transformation of temporary employment into fixed employment in public enterprises. If this amendment is approved, only two consecutive exercises with benefits will be required instead of the three currently covered. In addition, we would incorporate the expansion of the replacement rate. All this is aimed, as I said, Your Honor, at ensuring employment, giving it greater stability and ensuring the present and future of a public service such as that provided by Post and which must avoid any kind of conflict or confrontation at any time, since the Government's sole intention is to secure its present and future. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u44	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION: WHY DID THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM A SUBJECT OF TAXES IN AUTONOMOUS AND ASSISTANCE COMMUNITIES? [[File number 180/001304]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u45	He asked the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Mr Pedro Saura, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, why has the government programmed an increase in taxes in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u47	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Saura, the government has not programmed any tax increases in either autonomous communities or municipalities. The only plan in place by the Government is to reduce taxes, as we have been doing since the beginning of 2015. The drop in taxes in these circumstances that the Spanish economy is experiencing strengthens economic growth and job creation. If your honor is referring to the income forecast of the stability programme of the Kingdom of Spain, what the Government has done has been to collect the initiatives of autonomous communities and local corporations. They are their own forecasts, not only for public expenditure but also for revenue forecasts, as is always done in each programme. There is therefore nothing new; I can even add that the Government's intention is clearly to promote tax cuts to strengthen the process of economic growth and job creation that is taking place in Spain. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u49	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, today I am not going to ask you about the Economic Team, but I find it incredible that at this point you remain the number one ministry when your number two has contracted with the company that you created, that capitalism of friends that you have brought us and that you have done so much damage to the Spanish economy. [[Applauds]] But when elections come, automatically, the PP raises, promises to lower taxes. Fear gives me! Because the last promise was in 2011 and more than fifty taxes went up and averaged 20 billion euros in taxes. Fear gives me! And now we have elections and all the candidates, Mr Montoro, all the candidates of your party have promised to lower taxes, all of them. However, you send Brussels a review of the Stability Plan and say that taxes will be raised in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities, including IBI, by EUR 3.2 billion. And your election program says that on page 37, on page 60, on page 62, on page 114 and on page 115. Of course, when I talk about those pages, I am also referring to the stability programme that you have sent to Brussels. Therefore, a new electoral fraud; but because of this electoral fraud to you and your Government, the citizens will not amnesty it. And speaking of amnesty, Mr Montoro, the report of the judiciary, which confirms that the names of the fraudsters can be published, lays the foundations for the publication of the names of those who receive the tax amnesty. Therefore, Mr Montoro, do a great service to Spain, publish the list and leave. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. I was already concerned because it is the second question from the Socialist Group and I have not yet been asked to leave. I'm losing shape, ladies and gentlemen, I'm clearly losing condition and quality. [[Laughter]] Mr Saura, the good thing about the whole legislature, - not because we are now in advance of an autonomous and municipal elections - is the originality of your arguments. Of course, the facts have given him the reason: there was no economic recovery, no job creation, no reduction of the public deficit, no healing of local corporations, no healing and no reduction of autonomous communities, no guarantee of public services. You've made a full legislature. He talked about the tax amnesty from end to end, and then he asked me to leave. Don't worry, I'll leave now, I'll leave now. I said that yesterday in the Senate, I turn the burra to wheat, which is really the political philosophy applied by the Socialist Party in the government. I told you yesterday too, I have much more respect for what you represent in Spanish politics than for all that you normally do in Spanish politics. And among other reasons, I will give you the data that tax collection is growing in April, in homogeneous terms, more than 4%, after having reduced the IRPF and already reduced the corporate tax by 2015. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u53	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSÉ LUIS ABALS MECO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: Has THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERED THE IMPULSAR YOUR LOCAL REFORM THE SITUATION OF PROVINCIAL DUTIES IN THE VALENTIAN COMMUNITY? [[File number 180/001305]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u54	Question also addressed to Mr José Luis Ábalos, Minister for Finance and Public Administration of the Socialist Group. Mr Ábalos Meco: Thank you, Mr President. Mr Montoro, does the Government consider that the management developed by the presidents of the Valencian Parliaments supports the fact that with their local reform the Chambers have taken over municipal powers so far?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ábalos. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, the implementation of the budget and, therefore, the economic management of the presidents of the provincial parliaments is very clear. The provincial deputies of the Valencian Community have closed the year 2012 in positive numbers: in more than 49 million euros the Diputación de Alicante, in more than 12 million euros the Diputación de Castellón and that of Valencia in more than 58 million euros, when all the closures were negative in 2011. Therefore, no doubt the deputies of the Valencian Community have done a good job, supported and facilitated by the Government of Spain, also with its programme, with its supplier plan, as have all the local corporations of our country. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, I must appreciate that the Socialist Group is asking me this question because I assume that it will agree with you that precisely this work by the Members of Parliament has been favourable in maintaining the provision of services in so many small municipalities in the Valencian Community. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Abalos. Mr Ábalos Meco: Mr Montoro, the People's Party has governed the deputies of the Valencian Community since 1995, that is to say that it has had time to be in debt, to be in debt, to be in debt again and now to be in the situation you say, in which, on the other hand, 97 % of the revenue is transfer from the State, that is to say, the efforts of the just. However, they have been able to put artificial grass, luminaires and other priority things that have made it possible to do succulent business. Look, this is not a frame of The Godfather Part Four, these are the chairmen of deputies that the Valencian Community has had. [[Shows a photograph of Mr. Rus, Mr. Fabra and Mr. Ripoll]] In the center, Carlos Fabra, who is in prison; beside him Mr Ripoll, accused and detained by the police by the Brugal case, when he resigned as president of the provincial party - because the three were the heads of the provincial party respectively - who was given the presidency of the port of Alicante. Five months ago he had to give up for new scandals. Mr Fabra was given when he resigned from the party's presidency - not from the parliament - the presidency of Castellón airport. We lacked Mr. Rus, who is now in fashion. This man so unstoppable that he said of: there are many thieves in my country and many in my party. The people are sick of it, came to say Mr Rus - dixit Rus -, as he also said: whoever puts his hand in the box has to cut it off like Jomeini. It's also Rus doctrine. Well, now we are seeing how fashionable it is in all the media - all without exception, friends and enemies - for one more case of corruption in the Valencian Community? No, unfortunately, it is no longer a case of corruption; unfortunately, it is an element of what has been the client structure in the Valencian Community, of which the deputies themselves have also served. The problem is that what is now uncovered is the basis of a clientry pyramid based on corruption, and on that the People's Party in the Valencian Community has built its political power; that is what really reveals this. How did the People's Party react? In a delayed situation, he's been suspended... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u58	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, in Spain the institutions are working. That photo you were showing is a result of the proper functioning of the institutions. [[Laughter]] That is the case, and there are personal situations in which the reaction does not correspond to the Government or the institutions; it corresponds to political formations, and in this regard the People's Party of the Valencian Community is also responding to certain personal situations. You make a criticism by generalizing individual situations that must also have the presumption of innocence. They embarrass and dirty Spanish politics, that's what they're doing: getting angry. [[Protests.-Mr. Buyolo García utters words that are not perceived]] And that's very negative, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u60	Mr. Buyolo, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u61	... very negative because that does not harm only those who have exercised government responsibilities, it does so just as those who are exercising opposition responsibilities, and it does benefit those who are not sitting in the seats of this House. Think because really the position... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u62	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONI SUCH BOTELLA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT ASSESSMENT IS THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS OF AFFAIRS PROPOSED BY THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION FOR THE MANIPULATION OF THE PUBLIC DEFICIT CIFRS OF THE VALENTIAN COMMUNITY? [[File number 180/001306]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u63	Question also to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Mr Antoni Such, from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, the Valencian Community is going to have the honour of being the first region in Europe to be sanctioned for falsifying Greek-style accounting data. Mr. Montoro, what are you doing about it? How does this situation qualify and, therefore, what assessment does the ministry make of the sanction proposed by the European Union for manipulating deficit figures in the Valencian Community? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u65	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, first of all, you will have to acknowledge - and I hope you will do so in your reply - that precisely the identification of the hidden deficits occurred at the beginning of 2012 and it was at the initiative of the Spanish Government that, with its Supplier Plan, it was the one that brought out these outstanding debts. It was therefore the Government of Spain that brought forward the outstanding payments, it was the Government of Spain that informed the European authorities and, therefore, it was the Government of Spain that requested the continuation of the investigation into this matter from the European authorities. In this regard, President Fabra and Councillor Moragues have already taken steps to ensure that this situation cannot occur in their autonomous community, in order to avoid a practice that the Commission itself calls negligence but rejects any intentionality. I must remind you that it was the Government of Spain, through its programmes, that brought all this to light. The questions I ask you are: Where was the previous government? Where were Mrs. Salgado and Mr. Solbes? Were they not monitoring what they had to monitor neither in the Valencian Community nor anywhere in Spain? [[Rumors]] There they were. Do you know where they were? Requesting compatibility when they left their positions in the Government to go to the private sector immediately, instead of exercising their responsibilities as Government. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u67	Thank you, Minister. I'm sorry, Mr. Such. I pray silently to you all. Mr Such, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Montoro, I didn't understand very well. You are saying that the Government of Spain is the one that floated what was hidden by the Government of the People's Party in the Valencian Community. That's what you're saying, that the PP government hid 1.8 billion euros in bills in the drawers without telling anyone - neither previous governments nor anyone - and you boast that you have brought it to light. What must therefore be done immediately is to request the resignation of all the political leaders of the People's Party in the Valencian Community for having distorted the accounts. [[Applauds]] That's what I should have done. Its responsibility is that of monitoring, indeed, but it also has to be responsible and it does not have to protect such conduct. You must be responsible and therefore ask for explanations and not say that Mr Fabra and Mr Moragues are cooperating. Mr Fabra applauded with his ears at the Valencian Courts when such decisions were made and is a necessary accomplice to all the troupe that has been committed in the Valencian Community. I'll tell you more, Mr. Montoro. You speak of negligence but not of voluntariness. Explain that to the citizens because if it is not voluntary to hide the invoices in the drawers, that we do not talk about small amounts, we talk about 1.8 billion euros - you know how many drawers can be filled with 1.8 billion euros? -, it is a real barbarity. If it is not intentional, go and explain to the citizens what is happening. Mr. Montoro, you have to be a responsible politician and, if not, you have to go home. If you are responsible you have to ask for explanations and never support these kinds of attitudes, because these kinds of attitudes all they do is embarrass decent politicians. [[Several Members: Very well!]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u69	Thank you, Mr. Such. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, it is the Government and the Valencian courts that have prevented these situations from being repeated. You find out? [[Protests]] As I have read, it is the European Commission who has qualified; it has not been qualified by the Government of Spain. And it was the Government of Spain that brought an action before the General Court of the European Union against this investigation. I announced yesterday in the Senate that the government will resort to the sanction in the event that the Ecofin formalizes it because it understands that a regulation of the European Union is being applied, the one of 13 December, retroactively, something that no European or Spanish law should do. Therefore, at least acknowledge that we have paid the bills. Or have we not paid the outstanding invoices either? And, as I said, the socialist governments... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u71	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE PILAR MARI'S DEPARTMENT CONTINENT ALLEGY, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT OBJECTIVE IS THE GOVERNMENT LOOKING FOR TO LOCAL CORPORATIONS? [[File number 180/001307]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u72	Last question addressed to the Minister of Finance and Public Administration, made by Mrs Pilar Alegría... [[Mr Campos Arteseros pronounces words that are not perceived]] Mr. Campos, I haven't heard from you in a long time. Please, let me see if I can't hear you. [[Laughter]] I have the floor, Mrs Pilar Alegría, from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, for what purpose does the government seek to control local corporations?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Joy. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, the government is not looking to control local corporations. They have all their autonomy recognized in the Constitution. What we have done has been to promote a law that defines its competences and guarantees the provision of its services, and we have also made the relevant changes in the laws to ensure that the autonomous communities pay for the conventions, especially in social policies - what we call the social FLA -, which have pending municipalities from all over Spain. Therefore, we are working with them in this area, and I would like to thank the management of the vast majority of the municipalities in Spain that, with their contribution in terms of reducing the public deficit in this legislature, moving to positive balances, have made it possible for there to be economic growth and job creation in our country against all the forecasts that had been made inside and outside Spain. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Joy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u77	Minister, don't bother, but you've been a little confused about your answers lately. You like to talk a lot about effectiveness, but effectiveness can't be achieved by matching numbers to hammers or trying to break or jam and cut rights to right and wrong. Minister, efficiency is achieved by helping people who are having difficulty getting out of them. In that the municipalities play an indispensable role. Do you really not realize that in times like today, when there are so many people going through difficulties, the municipalities play a fundamental role? You will understand, Minister, that this question is an ironic game of words, because your decisions go completely the opposite way. You prefer to put the municipalities between the sword and the wall, because you know perfectly well that it is impossible to meet the citizens' demand when your ministry and government have cut all resources. You, Minister, don't want to face the face. He prefers that it be the mayors who give it, who talk to the citizens and tell them that they have to cut and that they cannot provide their services. You prefer to hide and what you do is close your eyes to the pain of citizens. Minister, you don't trust local corporations. He's a big vigilante brother. However, what a little sighted eye he was with those comrades and friends of his when they did business in the city halls. With you, Minister, the phrase 'eyes you do not see, heart you do not feel' gets all its meaning. And, Mr. Montoro, I understand that you prefer to close your eyes with everything that is going on in your party these days, because you have had a worrying blindness with all the Púnica plot, with which you have done business in the municipalities, in addition to in concerted schools and in private medical and social services. I understand that, because I'm going to retahíla, I'm going to take a walk from popular positions that we're seeing: Francisco Granados, Salvador Victoria and Isabel Gallego, not to mention Mr. Rus, who you keep at the top of the list at the City Hall of Xátiva. Or, Minister, of Madrid Network, although here I prefer not to say anything because I am sure that you are the one who can explain it to us best. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Joy. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u79	Mr President, as was expected, pre-election interventions. [[Rumors]] All of them of high content in intellectual value, of follow-up of the exercise of government; finally, a session... [[Rumors]] I recognize that I am becoming more and more clumsy in my questions. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u80	Please, I beg your silence. Let the speaker say what he thinks. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u81	I would like to refer to you the concept of freedom defended by Mr Miguel de Unamuno regarding the things I have just heard in the House this morning. Your Honor, denying that we start with a supplier plan of more than €9 billion to finance the unpaid bills of the municipalities is denying yourself. Denying that we start making tough decisions from the Government of Spain by raising the IBI to the highest values - not to the media and low - of all the municipalities of Spain is denying the most tangible evidence. To deny that from there the municipalities have made a formidable economic management, going from being in negative to being in positive and as a guarantee of the provision of municipal services, without closing a single municipality, without diminishing in a single number the councillors, is really a very meritorious task that has not done this government, but that they have done all the governments with... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u82	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED TERESA JORDA I ROURA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO DO WITH THE TRANSPIRENAIC STATE OF THE INTERNATIONAL LINE OF RIPOLL-AX-THE TERMS? [[File number 180/001298]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u83	Questions to the Minister for Development. She asked, first of all, Mrs Teresa Jordà, Member of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Ripoll's transpirenaica station is a beautiful building projected in the early 20th century to the likeness of Ripoll's monastery; a building with half-point arches, columns and capitals. It is a genuine work of art that, unfortunately, is currently in a deplorable state of manifest danger. In fact, the building has been deteriorating since 1940, just when Renfe's workers stopped living in it. Since then, there have been many conversations and meetings of the various mayors with Renfe Heritage and Urbanism, with its president or with the Ministry of Development in turn to find, in short, a solution to the imposing building. The only thing we got about it was in 2005, being I mayor, an investment of 500,000 euros to redo the whole roof and at the same time tear down all the partitions. Today, in 2015, ten years later, that investment has been lost due to laxity and the passage of time. Today the building is again, Minister, a focus of insanity and danger. For that reason, I ask you: What are you going to do with Ripoll's transpyrenaic station?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. As you have well described, even in 1924 there were stations without a train and that is what happened in Ripoll almost a century ago, which was made a station by which the train did not pass when it was decided at that time that instead of being international wide it was Iberian wide. Indeed, it is a unique building with great value and with respect to which we, from the Ministry of Development and from ADIF, are talking with all the institutions to see how that building, in addition to continuing with that general maintenance, could be destined for the enjoyment of all the citizens of Ripoll. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u87	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u88	Madam Minister, the transpirenaica station if it is not today an international station was due to the incompetence of the Spanish government a century ago; I do not, of course, point it out to you. And after leaving us at that time disconnected from the other side of the border, which would undoubtedly have benefited from the progress of Ripoll and also by extension of the region, they now somehow also refuse to allocate the building to municipal services. In fact, Adif's option was, at the time, to sell us a ruinous station at the price of speculation. Ripoll can't take it and ADIF, far from making money, is doing what it is doing is losing this money with patches of 500,000 euros that fall into a broken bag if you don't fully rehabilitate the building and give it a use. You know that, but to my tender, you prefer the building to fall before you hand it over to the municipality for the benefit of your people. I ask you, Minister, and I will finish: give up this station or sell it and do it, please, at an affordable price.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u89	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Good thing I'm not to blame for what happened a hundred years ago, and I thank you so much. We, as you know, in Ripoll and in all that railway line Barcelona-Vich-Puigcerdà, offer rail service - that is our main purpose -, which is used by more than 22,500 travellers per year and which we are trying to improve. With regard to the station, Your Honor, meetings have been held with the institutions, we are, of course, open to your proposals, Your Honor. Meetings have also been held with private investors to genuinely try to ensure that this building can be used for municipal purposes or for uses of the general interest of all Ripoll citizens. These meetings have found that the uses can be multiple, from a hotel to municipal facilities. We, of course, are there to collaborate, to support and to help. But what we are also doing is improving services in Ripoll and, therefore, is so important what we have done by allocating more than 3 million to that line in this legislature, or what we are going to do this week, which is to bid the drafting of projects between Parets del Vallès and La Garriga - you know that we need to double that line to improve service to citizens - or also to act in the N-260, which is your region, Your Honor, so that the section between Olot and the 38 can be a reality. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE FELIPE JESUS SICILIA ALFEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: WHEN IS THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED TO FINALIZE THE DIFFERENT PROCESSES OF A-32 TO THEIR STEP IN JANUARY'S PROVINCIA? [[File number 180/001309]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u92	Question also to the Minister for Development, who is the Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Felipe Sicilia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I ask you for the A-32 as you pass through my province, Jaén, and specifically two questions: firstly, when you plan your ministry to complete the works of the Úbeda-Torreperogil section; and secondly, when you plan your ministry to carry out the project of the link and new access from this highway to the city Heritage of the Humanity of Baeza. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u94	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. As you know, the Ministry of Development, despite the crisis, has made a very important effort; it has done so in Andalusia with more than 9 billion budget, it has done so in the province of Jaén, with more than 500 million, and of them 280 million for roads and, a very important part, Your Honor, for the A-32.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u96	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sicily.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u97	Minister, I was asking you for dates, I was asking you for information about the Úbeda-Torreperogil stretch, not that you went through the Úbeda Hills until you reached Torreperogil, which is what you have done with your answer not to answer me. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Minister, the deputy delegate of the government in Jaén, the representative of your government in my province, said: At the end of this year the Úbeda-Torreperogile section will be opened. Look what you said in a letter to the construction company: in March of this year you were informed that there was going to be a realignment in the annuities and a deduction for this year of 23 million euros. And the most serious, minister: they reported in this letter of their ministry - I read textually -, fix as the date of completion of the work - of the section Úbeda-Torreperogil - on October 31, 2018. [[Show a document]] Minister, they've informed the company. Citizens also have the right to be informed. You will report here today in this House: When will the works of that section be completed? In Andalusia there are three heritage cities of humanity: Cordoba, which has direct access to the highway; Ubeda, which will have it and will not be in 2018 as you anticipate but will be earlier because you will no longer be ruling; and the city of Baeza, which has no direct access to the highway yet and could have it. If you are going to remove 23 million euros for this stretch, Minister, you will invest 2 million in carrying out this project to link the city of Baeza. Madam Minister, I hope you do not leave again for the hills of Ubeda. The past of this highway we know it, the citizens of Jaén know it well because we have suffered it: delays in the works, problems with expropriations, with payments; that is the past. I ask you for your management and for the future that depends on you, Minister, don't tell me about the past, don't look for excuses, don't go down the hills of Ubeda as long as this highway passes through this city World Heritage Site. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u98	Thank you, Mr. Sicily. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm not going down the hills of Ubeda, I'm staying here at the Congress of Deputies. It was the year 2010, Your Honor. [[Shows a photograph of the former Minister of Fomento Blanco López.-Protests]] This was the Minister of Development that you all remember. [[Mrs. Ramón Utrabo utters words that are not perceived]] And this was what the Minister of Development said then, that the works of Highway 32 were suspended by the cuts, the section Úbeda-Torreperogil, the section Torreperogil-Villacarrillo and the section Villacarrillo-Villanueva of the Archbishop. Your Honor, that's what I found. I found the half-stop works, I found that all the sections of that highway and the contract... since you've taken a role out of a contract... [[Mrs. Ramón Utrabo utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u100	Mrs. Ramon, silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u101	Do you know when those works should have been completed? Your Honor, in 2010 and 2011, according to the contracts. - I'll send them to you, Your Honor, so you know. Mr. Blanco announced in this Congress, in July 2010, the halting of these sections. It seems a lie that you speak of expropriations, since you had all the expropriations of Spain without paying and also in Jaén. [[Rumors]] In Jaén they had paid 2.5 million euros, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] We are working especially on the Linares and Villanueva stretch of the Archbishop, Your Honor. We have invested 93.5 million in this legislature and, as a result, in November 2012 we put in service Ibros-Ubeda and we also paid 580 farms that you had not paid, which must have value. Also this year, Your Honor, we will complete the works of the Linares-Ibros section. That's what we're going to do, we're going to take back what you had stopped: the works of the Torreperogil-Villacarrillo and Villacarrillo-Villanueva sections of the Archbishop. We will continue to work on the drafting of projects ranging from Villanueva del Arzobispo to Albacete and, with regard to Baeza's link, we will finish the project and bid on it. What Mr. White didn't do, and you all do, the People's Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u102	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON MARTÍ BARBERÁ I MONTSERRAT, OF THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: WHAT ARE THE REAL GROUNDS OF THE IMPUGNATION PRESENTED BY THE GOVERNMENT TO THE MATRICULATION PROCESS IN CATALUNE? [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 180/001299]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u103	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. The formula is the deputy Don Martí Barberà of the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Wert, over and over again you and the People's Party are carrying out legislative initiatives and judicial actions to destabilise the educational model of Catalonia. Specifically, its most important pillar, its successful model of linguistic immersion, a model created to positively correct a historical situation of inequality with regard to Castilian. I recently reminded them of the oral and written domain data of Castilian and Catalan. If you remember, the conclusion was that Spanish as a co-official language has no problem. If we add to that the high percentages of audience of the television channels in Spanish, the number of movies in Spanish and the books published in Spanish, I assure you that the Spanish enjoys better health than the Catalan still. Therefore, we ask him: What are the real reasons for the Government's appeal to the Catalonian registration process accusing the Generalitat of inaction and omission?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u105	Thank you, Mr. Barberà. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Barberà. You ask me for the real reasons. The real reasons are exactly the same ones that led the Supreme Court, on 28 April last, a couple of weeks ago, to rule that precisely the inactivity and omission of its duties by the Government of the Generalitat made it necessary to validate the order of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, ordering that a subject of a truncated nature, in addition logically to the Castilian, should be taught in Spanish in order to comply with what the Constitution, the constitutional doctrine, the jurisprudence doctrine of the Supreme Court and the doctrine of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia itself order in this regard: that the fact that Catalan is a fundamental vehicle language in teaching, to which no law of the State has ever opposed, must be made compatible with the non-exclusion of Castilian as a vehicle language in a reasonable proportion.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u107	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Barberà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u108	Mr Wert, you can talk about judgments, lawsuits, legal bases, talking and talking, but they are only alibis that you are using thanks to your absolute majority to divide Catalan society. You, say it, would like to impose on Catalonia the Basque system that consists of three different linguistic models or, better still, the Navarro, which has four and offer by dividing the territory. Mr Wert, why so much contempt for Catalan? Why does this persecution sicken our model of social cohesion? He has renounced his participation in the Catalan curriculum, has excluded us from the Spanish curriculum, Catalan has been excluded from the truncated subjects, is trying to eliminate individualised language care and has come to reserve EUR 5 million to encourage some families and achieve their obsessive goals. Mr. Wert, the broad consensus around the Lley d'Educació de Catalunya and its model of linguistic immersion is indestructible. If a repressive dictatorship could not with our tongue, do you think you can? He's running out of time. Neither their reform is going to be implemented nor our model of linguistic immersion is going to disappear. Mr. Wert, this is how you will end up in the head of the Ministry of Education. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u109	Thank you, Mr. Barberà. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. You argue against all the evidence and against all the rulings of the courts to which I have referred - I insist -: the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, that the possibility and the need for a sustained offer with public funds, in which the Castilian also has in reasonable proportion a vehicle condition, constitutes a measure of segregation and exclusion from Catalan. It's the opposite! In literal terms, the Supreme Court has just said this in the judgment to which I referred a few minutes ago, which says that the system you propose for individualized care - I quote literally - leads to a situation of virtually identical discrimination to separation in class groups on the basis of ordinary language. You tell me about historical background that certainly do not make the case and, I will tell you, that today the situation of the Castilian in the educational system of Catalonia - I insist - despite judgments and the last of yesterday, ordering that 25% of school time is used as a vehicle language; it is a situation that the different courts... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u111	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs ISABEL RODRIGUEZ GARCIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: CAN THE MINISTER GUARANTEE THE NORMAL EXERCISE OF SANCTION IN THE SOCIAL ORDER IN CASES THAT AFFECT HER PARTY? [[File number 180/001310]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u112	Question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Mrs Isabel Rodríguez, Member of the Socialist Group, put it this way.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I don't know if you share the labour law that your party, the People's Party, applies to workers. Specifically, I mean what Cospedal coined as deferred layoffs in the form of simulation. Your Honor, this was not just a pathetic intervention by the PP secretary general to the media that will pass on to the history of our country, but this is a very serious thing, and it is that in times of economic crisis, when you applied your labor reform, when the workers suffered, you, your party, hired your treasurer already involved in the Gürtel case until before the papers came out and paid him 21,300 euros a month. They put him driver, secretary, office on Genoa Street and, in case he didn't have enough, a Christmas basket at his house. That is what you applied as labor law to this worker. In exchange for what this salary, what was the recompense, was your silence what you were buying? Mrs Báñez, if Cospedal has committed a fraud in the hiring of the treasurer and in the contributions made to Social Security, that is what you have to answer to me here today; and if you are going to take the necessary measures to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate, Social Security and the Public Employment Service comply with the requirements made to them by the High Court of Justice of the Community of Madrid, which are the same ones that have already given them the judgment in the Court of Social Affairs. That's what I want you to answer to, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u114	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, Spain is a democratic and legal state, and it is the law that guarantees sanctioning power and it is the law that determines that the institutions that have to value, judge and, in their case, sanction irregular or fraudulent conduct are: the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate and the courts of justice. The law applies in all cases and applies throughout the national territory. You, as a socialist, are not endorsed to come to this House to talk about simulation, because what is simulation, Your Honor?, is simulation putting in the ERE of Andalusia intruders fraudulently in connivance with the Andalucian Junta?, is that simulation? Madam Member, it is the law and only the law that establishes equality between the Spanish. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u116	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u117	Mrs. Báñez, the simulation has been coined by you. I come here to question you because I am the opposition and you are the government. Of course we agree that the law is being enforced. See if the law is going to be enforced that you are going to sit on the bench when the trial of the Bárcenes case begins; you are going to sit on the bench and then - because you are the same, the People's Party - assists you in the right not to declare against yourself, assists you in the right to remain silent. But in this House, in the Congress of Deputies, you and the rest of the Government, as leaders of the People's Party, have an obligation to explain to the citizens, and here you cannot remain silent, Your Honor, here you cannot remain silent. [[Applauds]] If Mrs Cospedal made a contract fraud, she would already have to be terminated as secretary general of the People's Party. And you as responsible for the employment policies of this government, which is of the same party that she runs, would have to be filing your resignation if you are unable to enforce labour legislation in your own home. That's what should be happening in a serious country. Nine appearances we have requested and nine noes. You don't speak, but the citizens will speak in the next elections. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, with great honor I feel in the blue bank because there are a majority of more than ten million Spaniards who gave confidence to Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Despite his heavy weight, in Andalusia more than two hundred and fifty colleagues of his are sitting on the benches giving explanations to Judge Alaya and the courts - Mrs. MP: a little bit of respect -. [[Applauds]] The Ministry of Employment and Social Security, through the Labour Inspectorate, pursues fraud and irregularities in the application of labour standards, and does so in all cases. It does so with autonomy, independence and absolute professionalism. You do not respect the autonomy or independence or professionalism of labour inspectors or courts of justice. We do, because we believe in democracy, we believe in the division of powers. What you're implying with those questions is that you think otherwise. I tell you that labour inspectors do their work with neutrality and objectivity, that they are a body that acts with absolute independence, either under denunciation or on their own initiative, and do so as they have to, with absolute confidentiality. And the attacks you make in this House have to prove them in the courts, honourable Member. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE SITUATION OF THE TOURIST SECTOR IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/001302]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u121	Questions to the Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what is your assessment of the situation in the tourism sector in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u123	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I make a positive assessment if we look at the total number of international visitors who have visited us over the past few years, particularly in 2014, when we hit a record when we reached 65 million tourists. It is not only a question of the number of visitors, but also of the overall expenditure that these tourists make in Spain. A record was also set last year, reaching €63 billion. In addition, we have had an extraordinary news for the tourism sector just four days ago: the World Economic Forum, after evaluating more than a hundred criteria, has chosen Spain as the country of the world that has the highest competitiveness index, from the tourist point of view; it includes not only what can be conventional strengths and assets of the sector - all that has to do with climate, beaches, etc. - but also other issues that are highly valued when it comes to choosing or not a tourist destination such as security, the National Health System, etc. Therefore, without prejudice to the fact that we must continue to consolidate ourselves as one of the world's references in the field of tourism, the evolution of the sector in recent years can be described as positive.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u125	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u126	Minister, we know that Spain is a world tourism power. In fact, we are the third receiving country of international tourists and the second in income, but all this despite his Government. Rajoy promised in election campaign to cut tourist VAT by half, and lied; not only did he not lower it but he raised it 2 points and today we have the highest tourist VAT in Europe and the whole Mediterranean. This means a loss of EUR 1 billion and about 19,000 jobs per year. You have promoted gas and oil explorations in tourist areas: in the Balearic Islands, in the Canary Islands and in the Costa del Sol, and you have said barbarities as great as that is positive for tourism. In addition, the luxury of halving the tourism budget has been allowed. In fact, it has virtually eliminated tourism dynamism and competitiveness plans and plans to improve the hotel plant. For example, the Qualifying Plan of the Costa del Sol has been loaded. That's what you've done. Moreover, you have done nothing to end seasonality; in fact, you have brutally cut down on vacation plans for older people, which you know is essential to maintain the sector and to generate employment during the low season. They have taxed SMEs and self-employed people in the tourism sector. With regard to national unemployment, what you have done has been to halve investment and cut the workforce by 500 workers. By the way, the only one they had to throw out, that they haven't, has been to the president of Paradores for her nasty management and for some little more than you and I know. Do you, Minister, hear twelve-hour contracts serving tables for 500 euros, or four-star hotels where more than half the staff are practically fellows, do they sound like you? I have to tell you that since the crisis began so far, the number of workers in the sector has been reduced by half a million and, as a result of his Government's labour reform, contracts are more precarious every day and wages are more miserable. That is why I am asking you here today, I demand you in Parliament, to stop hurting the tourist industry, to bet on quality tourism, with quality employment and decent wages. Minister, take care of the tourism sector, because after 24 May many of you will have plenty of time to do tourism; that is, paying for it from your pocket. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u127	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u128	Your Honor, I really have to recognize your unparalleled political value, that is to say, I have never seen anyone in this House who, in the face of the extraordinary evolution of the first sector of the Spanish economy, is angry as you have been angry today. [[Applauds]] It turns out that we are the third world destination - I remind you that when we arrived we were the fourth -; it turns out that we are the second in tourist spending; it turns out that where there was a disastrous, near bankruptcy, situation of the company Paradores we put it in figures that again are positive and you get angry. I really don't understand. It is a pity that the World Economic Forum has determined that Spain is the country with the greatest tourism competitiveness in the world. Don't be angry about it; that's good for us, but not just for the government; it's good for the whole of Spain and, if I hurry, it's good for you...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u129	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED GOVERNMENT OF TARNO BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM: WHAT HAPPENED TO THE ELECTRIC FACTURATION FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMER IN THE LAST YEARS? [[File number 180/001311]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u130	He also asked the Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism, Mr Ricardo Tarno, of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what has been the evolution of the electricity bill for the consumer in recent years?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u132	Thank you, Mr. Tarno. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u133	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I would like to say that, over the last three years, the bill for an average low-voltage consumer that is hosted by what is called the voluntary price to the small consumer, an invoice that includes the term of power, the term of energy and the taxes that are paid - both the electricity tax and the value added tax -, over the last three years has fallen in absolute terms to EUR 67, which means in relative terms a decrease of 8.6%, which contrasts completely with the evolution of the eight years immediately preceding where the same invoice had risen for the same type of consumer in terms of EUR 351 and in percentage terms to 82.8%.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u134	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Tarno.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Soria, your Government, our Government, has undertaken a number of essential reforms for the Spanish economy. The reform of the electricity sector has made it possible for small consumers to gain purchasing power, for businesses to be more competitive, for jobs to be created, for wealth to be created. Just like in so many things, there are two models to do them. There is the progressive model that, from what you have counted in this House, means that monthly the value of the invoices progressed, the invoices went up. The small consumer, with whom some members of this House are so filled in their mouths to defend them, had to pay much more for a vital and basic service such as electricity. And then a model of doing things right, of working, which is what this government and the People's Party does that has allowed those families who are suffering from the crisis at least to have in the electric bill, in the receipt of the light that we receive every month, a major drop. The Group of the European People's Party and I call on you to continue with the reforms, to keep going; that is the only way forward and that is the only way we will follow the path of growth and employment. Thank you, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Tarno. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u137	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This average consumer I referred to earlier, which accounts for 60% of all electricity consumers in Spain. The other 40% is not within this modality because they choose freely and voluntarily or have a bilateral contract with an electricity marketer or be within the standard contract modality, and under these conditions it has to be unique and exclusive to the negotiation they undertake bilaterally. For this average consumer to whom I referred, in 2003 the electricity bill per year was 424 euros and in 2011 it was 751 euros, therefore an increase of 351 euros. But that invoice that was 751 euros in 2011 in 2014 was 708 euros. This obviously does not happen by infuse science; as you have said very well, it is the result of the results that have been achieved by the reform policies, also in the energy sector, which the Government has undertaken. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN LUIS GORDO PEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT ACTIONS IS THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS GOING TO TAKE, IN THE FIELD OF HIS COMPETITION, TO RESPONSE THE celeRATED DEPOBLATION OF CASTILLA And Lion? [[File number 180/001308]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u139	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Environment, by Mr Juan Luis Gordo, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, Castile and León has lost 87,000 inhabitants in the last four years, 3.4% of its population, and according to the INE it will lose until 2023 195,000. Much of the rural environment in the provinces of Castile and León is on its way to becoming a true desert and many villages have an expiry date. Madam Minister of Finance in office, because, as you know, Mr Montoro did not want me to answer this question: what fiscal - fiscal - actions does the Government intend to take to respond to the accelerated problem of depopulation? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u141	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u142	Thank you, President. The Government has been working since the beginning of the legislature to generate economic activity and employment opportunities in Castile and León and throughout Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u143	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gordo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u144	Minister, I'm asking you to come to the subject. Twenty-eight years of government by the People's Party in Castile and León have led us to a limit situation: economic atonement, lack of industrial fabric have led to a massive exodus of young people, ageing and depopulation. Madam Minister, the problem of depopulation is mainly that of the Castile and León Council, but it is also a part of the Government. We expect leadership from the Government and so far we have met only with tax cuts. Minister, Castile and León needs future, needs employment, needs people, businesses and entrepreneurs. We are left with the Pujalte and the Trillo who are going to fill the pots and we are left with the policy of clienting their ministry with the social action groups. That is why what we are asking for, Minister, is an economic action plan that creates wealth and sets people, a fiscal policy that gives benefits to businesses and the inhabitants who are in these highly urgent listed areas in order to respond to depopulation. We call for priority action also in the funds, in the allocation of funds from Europe and Spain. And we ask for an index that adjusts the allocation in the share of State taxes and that does not continue to cut us, as they have done, by 50% in rural development plans and 80% in incentives to set up businesses. Castilla and León dies, dies and we need a second reconquer, but a technological, economic and fiscal reconquer, and his government is doing nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u145	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u146	Thank you, President. The agricultural sector and the rural environment also benefit from the tax reduction promoted by this Government and in order to counter depopulation there is no more effective policy than to boost economic activity, improve the profitability of farms and encourage diversification of the rural environment, and this Government is dedicated to this, in all areas and with all the tools. The Spain-European Union Partnership Agreement includes a specific reference to regions with demographic challenges - Castile and León - as the Government's main concern. EUR 330 million of ERDF funds have been allocated and the regional programmes will establish the actions in each territory. Your Honor, agricultural activity is very important in Castile and León throughout the territory. This government has negotiated €47 billion for the Spanish agricultural sector, so that it is competitive in all sectors, Castile and León will receive €7.2 billion. This means that this government, and against all odds, because there were huge cuts in the European Union, has guaranteed 40% of the incomes of 90,000 farms by 2020; of them, 1,000 for rural development, for actions that allow people to be set. We have increased rural development funds by 14%, EAFRD: EUR 120 million more. For what? To alleviate the scandalous treatment received by this autonomous community with the previous Government. You have to be very brave to be socialist and talk about rural development in Castile and León. Between 2006 and 2013 you took EUR 661 million from Castile and León for rural development, 44% of the funds you had received in the previous period from Brussels. It is the most arbitrary distribution ever known to benefit autonomous communities governed by the PSOE to the detriment of Castile and Lion for issues that now seem to you to be so concerned. We have invested in irrigation; a basic element for rural development, and as I wanted to talk to you about fiscal policy, I will tell you that we also support it from this point of view. By reducing the modules when needed and supporting the system of modules for farmers and farmers, Castile and León this year will benefit from a savings of 100 million euros on the tax base. The reduced and super-reduced rates of VAT for food have been maintained... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u147	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING THAT Is this the 15th occasion - a FORAL LAW APPROVED IN NAVARRA RESPECTED WITH NAVARRA CITY, HIS INSTITUTIONS AND THE OWN DEMOCRACY? [[CANNABIS CLUB REGULATOR]] [[File number 180/001281]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u148	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality, by Mr Sabino Cuadra, from the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u149	Minister, do you consider that the 15th time recourse to a foreign law is respectful of Navarra citizenship, its institutions and democracy itself?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u150	Thank you, Mr. Quadra. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Cuadra, the Government scrupulously respects the legislative action of the Autonomous Communities, in this case of the Foral Community of Navarre, when they act in the exercise of their powers, but as we are so scrupulous, if the legislative action of your Parliament is contrary to the Constitution and the legislation in force, as is the case, we appeal it to the Constitutional Court. This is what happens with the regulation of cannabic clubs in Navarre, and that is why we have brought the appeal to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the way to respect, everyone, institutions and democracy is to comply with the laws. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Quadra.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u153	Minister, there are already fifteen resources and suspensions of so many other laws passed by the Foreign Parliament. This is a record throughout the State, besides these laws did not ask for the overthrow of the monarchy or the abolition of the army or the declaration of the independence of Navarre, but they had to do with things day by day, with the needs of the people, with the chickpeas, to understand us: with the health co-op, with the health care of immigrants, with the evictions, with the application of the IBI to the Church, with the extra salaries of the officials... You, the PP and also UPN, presume that the regime of autonomy existing in the Spanish State is the summum of the world and that Navarra is the panacea of all this, but in this you lie, as in other things, more than you speak, because the truth is that in recent years Navarra has been losing or seeing how it reduced its competencies: health, educational or public service competences, and this has been due to a centralist constitution, shameful improvement, the abusive application of basic laws and a constitutional court made in its image and likeness. With all this you nullify all those laws that are not of your political taste, and to this must also be added that Navarra has another record, that of having more government fines per inhabitant. This, together with the above, shows that Navarra is now at the door of political and social change and institutional sanitation and disinfection. Faced with this, you, instead of responding democratically, do so in a rough way, nullifying and suspending laws and imposing fines. Faced with this, we can do nothing but defend our right to decide, our sovereignty in the small, the medium and the large, in the political and in the social, in the for today and in the for tomorrow. And as soon as this morning arrives, Minister, please take your hands off Navarra, leave us alone.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u154	Thank you, Mr. Quadra. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u155	As you know, the responsibility for you trying to bypass the legislation or powers that the Constitution marks cannot naturally be the responsibility of the government that invokes the law, which is the most democratic. There is nothing more democratic than invoking it and trying to protect it. You know that the legal services of the Parliament of Navarre reported negatively prior to the popular legislative initiative on which it was based. They reported negatively because it exceeded the scope of the powers they could exercise. They therefore acted against the legal reports and against the evidence of the law. In that sense, I don't know what you can complain about if the consequences of your actions are what you already knew you were going to have. If we talk about Navarra, a dear outlaw community that we respect, that has special competences and that comes before the adoption of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, you respect Navarra. What do you want to do with Navarra? What is your project for Navarra? Do you want Navarra to remain an outlaw community, proud of itself and able to govern itself or do you want to integrate it into another community or what project they have for the outlaw that has always distinguished Navarra? Those who put Navarra's forality and Navarra's autonomy at risk are you, because you want to make it subject to another political project that empties the identity of the shipwrecks of content and we will always be defending the foral and special character of that community that is very close to me. As long as there is a government in Spain of the People's Party, the Navarros know that they will rely on their forality, their autonomy and their way of governing themselves. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u156	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u157	We move on to the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, Mr Urbina, of the Joint Group, asked about the Government's position on fracking. Mr Urbina has the floor to develop his inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we certainly bring to the House an issue that is not new. In fact, the fracking issue has already been dealt with in this House in various interventions and appeals. [[The Lord]] It is precisely this that shows the concern that exists in society with this subject, no longer only in the Spanish State and in Euskal Herria, but that at the global and European level the social rejection of this type of method of extraction to obtain energy is increasingly evident. This is demonstrated by the fact that in different States moratoriums are being prohibited and are being applied until it is clear exactly whether or not all of these reported risks are verifiable. As I said, this very thing is evident in the Spanish State, no longer only in Euskal Herria and more specifically in Araba, but also in other parts of the State, as in the Canary Islands. The social rejection of fracking is evident. This may make the position maintained by the Spanish Government and its insistence on maintaining a method of extraction more incomprehensible when, at this point, there is enough evidence of the risks and harm involved. I imagine that you will not be surprised, for this reason I have told you, that it is precisely a honourable Member who raises this issue here in Parliament. I imagine that, as I have previously commented, you are aware of what the social reality in Araba is with regard to fracking. Otherwise, I suppose his colleague Minister Alonso has given him due account of the reality there, even of the balances they have to make - it is also true that for electoral reasons - in relation to fracking. There is a social majority in Araba against fracking, which gives us the two keys by which Amaiur precisely raises this question to the Government of Spain: respect for the environment and also respect for the will of the social majority in Euskal Herria and in Araba. Therefore, in our people, as in many others, we find ourselves in a position contrary to founded and informed fracking. Two years ago, in this House, this issue was brought to the attention of the Government by the Group of the Plural Left. And with regard to what was reported two years ago, I believe that during all this time the risks to which reference was made have been identified. We were then talking about the interference that fracking posed in the environment and the risks that it entailed for the safety of society and for the health of those environments where it is practiced. And we did so with reports from experts who have analysed the subject, some prepared at the initiative of this House such as that of the Geological and Mining Institute of Spain, in which there is clearly talk of a risk of water pollution, air pollution or seismicity. We are talking about issues that, as I said, during these two years, since the previous question was raised, have been being observed and accredited. Therefore, we are no longer faced with elucubrations, but with certainties. And an example that I think is illustrative and that comes from a pioneering country in the practice of fracking as is the United States - where it has produced a series of consequences that have caused many States to have ended up banning it - is the report made by the United States Geological Service that, analyzing the consequences of fracking, has found the proliferation of earthquakes in those places where it has been practiced. Therefore, we are no longer talking about risks, about hypotheses; we are talking about certainties that affect the environment, as has been clear throughout this time, and that affect the safety and health of the population. We also believe that the argument against the economic viability of fracking has lost its full support. That is why, Minister, under these conditions we consider it necessary to bet on another energy model that really respects natural resources and also the population. That is why we advocate, as does the social majority in the Basque Country, that fracking should not be applied and bet on another energy model. What is happening here is that we are not talking about the environment, about what we are talking about here is about other interests, about the interests of certain lobbies, about the interests of economic elites - which is what the Spanish Government is looking at - not watching over the integrity or the interests of the population, no; what it is doing is watching over the economic interests of certain sectors and economic lobbies. That is the question and the explanation of the position of the Spanish Government today. Of all this is aware the society of the whole Spanish state and especially of Euskal Herria and Araba, so they say no to fracking. In addition, it does so on a well-founded and informed position, to which I have previously referred, and it has expressed it in many ways; it has expressed it with massive mobilizations, in consultations, and it has also expressed it in legislative initiatives. I'll mention two of them. Reference has already been made to one of them, which is the one expressed in Navarre, with the adoption of the Anti-Fracking Act, in October 2013, by the hand of the opposition, thus assuming. And the other is currently under way in the Basque Parliament, it is an ILP, with more than 103,000 signatures and which, presumably and always waiting uncertain about what the PNV is doing on this issue, has all the facets of moving forward. These are two clear examples of the will of Basque society and are reflected in both parliaments. The first of these, as my colleague Mr Cuadra has already said, was appealed by delegation of the Government - which is what you do when you do not have sufficient institutional representation to impose your political criterion - and which was clearly confirmed by the Constitutional Court, as it could not otherwise be, in view of the content of your pronouncements, most of them with an absolutely political character, as is the case in these types of issues. With regard to the second, that of the Basque Parliament, which is in the process and comes from the hand of the ILP, you are already in a hurry to try to ensure that it has no effect, that it is not confirmed, as has been known in the press. In view of the matter, we are not only talking about the environment, but, in these terms, we are talking about a question of democracy on a basis that I believe is basic and absolutely logical, namely that those who are going to receive the effects of that practice - in this case, fracking - in the places where they live, are those who decide which natural resources and how they work and extract those resources. It seems logical that those who affect the consequences of this practice are those who, in the first instance and definitively, decide whether they are correct from the point of view of respect for the environment and from the point of view of respect for the health and also of the safety of these people. It seems logical that it is the people who decide whether or not fracking is convenient and that it is the people who decide whether fracking is right or not. In our people, Minister, the position is clear: another energy model is being defended, fracking is clearly not being said, so the only thing left to the Spanish Government is to respect this will. That is why I was telling him that we are talking about the environment, but also about democracy. Finally, I would like to end this speech with a different subject - and I will be brief, Mr President - by denouncing the persistence of political trials against Basque militants today in the Spanish State and the persistence of convictions based on statements that have been denounced as having been obtained with ill-treatment. [[Finish your euskera intervention]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Urbina. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I will give some consideration to some of the questions raised by the honourable Member. He began his intervention by referring to the fact that polls, investigations, using hydraulic fracturing, had been rejected in the Canary Islands, which is known as fracking. I would like to tell you that there is not a single request for research, research or exploration of non-conventional resources using hydraulic fracturing or fracking on any of the seven islands of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands. I don't know if you were referring to other types of surveys, but of course no one has ever proposed using hydraulic fractures in the Canary Islands. If it were, logically, like any other application, it would be considered; if it met all the requirements that are set out both in the Environmental Assessment Act and in the Hydrocarbons Sector Act itself, it would go ahead. But I want to tell you that, so far, there is absolutely none. You are also talking about your environmental risk intervention. I believe that none of the honourable Members who are present in the House knows of any kind of industrial activity that is 100 per cent exempt from any risk as a result of its development. What's important? The important thing is that in the face of a given industrial activity, institutions legislate to minimize the possibility and the likelihood that such risks will exist or materialize for both people and goods as well as the environment. You have also spoken in your speech about the rejection of this technology in some States of the United States of America. Here I would like to make some considerations. If we can talk over the last few years about a real energy revolution, that is what shale gas has been like in the United States. Do you know why? Because it has enabled them to obtain non-conventional resources that will allow the United States to be fully autonomous in terms of gas through non-conventional gas in a short time, and fully autonomous in terms of non-conventional oil resources as well. And in addition, in a while they can become the world's first gas exporters and the world's first oil exporters. But, more importantly, the availability or not of energy such as gas or oil at a cheaper price than that of its competitors has allowed the United States to allow, over the last few years, not a few industries, precisely European where the price of energy is higher than that of the United States, to move from Europe and just to the United States, with the implications that this has for industrial activity in Europe, for economic activity and above all for employment. When you look for the reasons why in the United States over the past few years there has been a growing process of re-industrialisation as the opposite occurred in Europe in parallel, you have no doubt that one of the most important causes is precisely in the energy price differential, mainly gas. Today gas in the United States is paid at about three and a half dollars, in Europe up to three times and sometimes even more. That is why Europe loses industrial competitiveness in favour of the United States. Thirdly, you were also talking about the need to bet on another energy model - you said it twice - and the question is, what energy model? Because, as far as I know, there are not many European countries that have a mix - a combination of the different technologies with which electricity is obtained in Spain - as diverse as Spain has. In Spain, the generation of electricity contributes nuclear energy, hydropower, wind power, photovoltaics, thermosolars, we have biomass, we have cogeneration, we have coal, we have gas; therefore, there is a certainly diversified mix. I have been able to see that I was thinking of an energy model in which there is a greater weight of renewable energy. In 2014 of the total electricity generation in Spain 43% came from renewable sources. Today in Spain, in 2015, if we are in relation to meeting the targets set by the European Union for 2020, and very particularly as regards the 20% share that renewables would have to have in primary energy, we are above those targets. Therefore, I do not know whether in this energy model you are proposing is to dispense with gas, to dispense with oil, to dispense with coal, to dispense with nuclear energy. And if that's the case, what's the alternative? Because the alternative, logically, would have to be considered if we wanted to change the energy mix in our country. You also mentioned that there were autonomous communities that had opposed different rules and laws to hydraulic fracturing techniques for obtaining non-conventional gas resources. True, there are autonomous communities that have legislated saying: prohibited fracking in this autonomous community. What's the matter? The point is that this is something that is included in the basic legislation of the State, it is not the competence of any autonomous community. It is true that it is the autonomous communities that ultimately have to authorize or not the corresponding permission to carry out this type of prospecting using hydraulic fracturing, provided that this prospecting is to be carried out within a single community, because if it affects two neighbouring communities, which are neighbours, then it is the State that has to authorize it. However, when an operator requests an authorization from an autonomous community to carry out a hydraulic fracture for gas or oil, it has to make the decision on the basis of the basic legislation of the State established for that purpose, because otherwise the operator would go to the courts and would most likely give him the reason. It is true that when an autonomous community - of whatever colour - has legislated banning fracking technique, the Council of Ministers has authorized the President of the Government to go to the Constitutional Court to appeal, but not for the argument you have said. I thought I understood you that as a result of the fact that the party supporting the Government does not have sufficient representation in certain autonomous parliaments, through the delegate of the Government an appeal is made to the Constitutional Court; and I thought I understood you that as the Constitutional does what the Government tells you, then you are right. Man, let me say, with all due respect, that it seems to me an argument of alarming simplicity. The Constitutional Court does what it does to ensure that the requirements, principles and guidelines contained in the Spanish Constitution are complied with. It is true that whenever the Government, the Council of Ministers, has addressed the Constitutional Court to raise the fact that a certain normative initiative of an autonomous community - such as those of hydraulic fracture - is not in accordance with the Constitution, logically, the Constitutional Court has ruled in favour of the Government for what it said before, because this is the basic legislation of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, whether or not the techniques and technologies of hydraulic fracturing are shared has nothing to do with what you proposed from the lobbies. This is a matter of national energy security. You know that the Government has developed a national security strategy where many aspects are included, and one of them is precisely that which has to do with energy, because energy is not only a basic input from any economy, but energy has to be a secure energy from the point of view of its supply, it has to be balanced from the point of view of the different sources with which it relies in order to obtain that energy and it has to be an environmentally sustainable energy, but also economically and financially sustainable. For these three purposes, the national energy security strategy is directed, where no source is excluded for any kind of motivation or ideological consideration. It is true that we have no prejudice, but, yes, what this Government has done in relation to hydraulic fracturing technology is to introduce amendments to the regulations in force in Spain to, on the one hand, increase the requirements required by the Environmental Assessment Act for any type of authorization that is made in relation to this technology and, on the other hand, something that you mentioned in your intervention, establish compensation to the owners of the land where this authorization takes place and also to the autonomous communities and the local authorities closest to the territory where these practices are carried out. In this regard, I would like to mention the recently approved amendment of the Hydrocarbons Sector Act, which sets out these additional considerations, I insist, to increase the guarantee of people and goods and also environmental. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u161	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Urbina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the energies we are talking about are renewables and clean energies, not fossils or nuclear, it is clear, and we have made this clear on countless occasions. In addition, you spoke of a fundamental premise or couple, and it is the risk of the extraction of certain energies, that all the obtaining of energies has risks. This is not exactly so, it is evident that there are some who have more than others. If something has become clear during all this time are the risks, and, as I said, to some extent certainties of those risks, that produces fracking. Therefore, there are risks and risks and in the case of fracking we talk about certainties based on expert reports that you have perfect knowledge of. He has also raised energy independence in the United States, and I ask him: Whose energy independence? I don't know very well about my people and the Spanish state. What I do know is that this energy independence will possibly come from those economic elites and economic lobbies that are pressing globally and insisting that fracking spread all over the world and, through the trade agreement between Europe and the United States, the TTIP, this is to be made viable. That is the reality with which we find ourselves, there are economic lobbies and elites that cut off all of this. You referred to the legislative changes and focused on a concrete fact, but the reality is that what the Spanish Government is doing in the end is to facilitate all this processing so that fracking can be implemented. Sample of this also is - we can see it directly in Euskal Herria - how many companies - and to whom they are linked - are waiting for the fence to open in order to be able to start all these prospections. That's the reality and that gives us the real picture of what interests are behind all this. I think it is important that we speak clearly on this subject. You have been talking about democratic regeneration and anti-corruption for some time now. This is a good example for that, fracking, a good example of clientelism, of revolving doors, of economic lobbies. That's what it's meant for, and that's what you're thinking about when you talk about fracking. That is the reality, that is the commitment to the democratic regeneration of the People's Party through the Government of Spain. We're not dealing with a competition issue, no. It's a much more basic matter. That's how we perceive it at least. It's a democratic issue. You talk to me about competition, state legislation... I've raised a question before that that I think is quite more basic, and it's hearing people who are going to suffer the effects of a method of extraction that has very big risks. It seems logical to me - I think so - that it is in that territory where it is decided whether that is the right thing to do or not, that it is decided which natural and energy resources are appropriate to exploit in that territory. That's why I tell him I see him from a different perspective. I do not think that this is a question of competence, it is a question of democracy, of respect for the majority will of a people, in this case of the Basque people. That is why I had previously proposed - I maintain it and we believe it from Amaiur - that the Government of Spain is left with respect for the majority will of the Basque people. It would be a good start to addressing other issues. And in this case they have said it very clearly: Fracking Ez. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Urbina. The debate is concluded by the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u164	You have referred again to the issue of renewables and clean energies and said: we are in favour of renewables, clean ones, not fossils or nuclear energy. Are you considering that 22% of the electricity produced through nuclear energy - of the eight reactors are now in operation in Spain - will cease to be produced? If that were the case, do you plan how to replace it? Do you plan that the electrical energy produced in the combined gas or coal cycles, which is also fossil, ceases to be produced? If so, what would we produce it with? With renewables? With wind? Solar? Thermosolar? By the way, when the sun or wind fails, because from time to time they fail, what would be the backup technology? What would back him up? Would it be the gas? Would it be coal? Would it be the oil? What technology would we have there? Because this whole renewable speech here seems very good to me, but let's tell people what the reality of the energy system is. If you produce everything with wind or all with sun, you have to have a backup technology that, in addition, you have to pay, use it or not use it; and that payment is being transferred to you, me and all the Spaniards at the end of the month in the receipt of the light, because you have to pay the eventuality that at some point it will fail. Therefore, it is not just a matter of saying that everything is renewable and that there are no fossils or nuclear energy. What is the alternative that you propose? I have not said that there are certain extraction technologies that are more at risk than others, what I am saying is that every type of industry always has a risk, it is never 100% guaranteed that there will be no risk, only that this government has introduced amendments, both in the Environmental Assessment Act and in the Hydrocarbons Sector Act, to require more requirements, more conditioning to this type of authorizations. For what? Just to increase that kind of assurance. You were talking about the energy independence of the United States and that of Spain and that all this has to do, in your opinion, with the economic elites or I don't know which lobbies. The government acts on the basis of what it believes is the general interest of Spain, and the general interest of Spain - also its own - is that the 100 million euros that the Spaniards use every day to buy energy from the rest of the world, we can reduce them through a decrease in energy dependence, increasing independence and decreasing vulnerability. For that we have to be able to know what kind of natural resources we have, whether conventional or non-conventional. Finally, he said that everyone here decides at home because this is not a competition issue, it is a question of democracy. Democracy is precisely what allows us all to be here, to come here, to propose rules, to approve them or to reject them, and all the rules to which I have referred today in this matter are rules that start from where the sovereignty of the Spanish people is, who are here; you too do not like that, but that is democracy. It cannot be said that this is not a competition problem, it is a problem of democracy, it is democracy that allows you to sit there and I to sit in my seat as well as all the other ladies and gentlemen. Democracy, of course, has a lot to do with democratic regeneration too - you have said it -. But let me tell you something, Your Honor, you cannot even teach anyone the slightest lesson of that, because you, as long as you do not condemn the murders that have taken place in Spain, are not legitimized to give absolutely nothing lessons to anyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u165	Thank you, Minister. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE GOVERNMENT'S DEFENCE POLICY FOR PREVENTION OF BIOTERRORIST ATTACKS. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 172/000311]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u166	Urgent inquiry by the Catalan Parliamentary Group into the Government's defence policy aimed at preventing bioterrorism attacks. [[Convergence and Union]] Defends the interpellation Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, three weeks ago the Secretary of State and Head of Cabinet of the President of the Government presented to the Constitutional Commission the report I have and which I show you from the rostrum, the annual national security report. After reading it, my parliamentary group and the spokespersons for the Interior and Defence are greatly concerned about the lack of clear references and a clear and developed strategy on bioterrorism. When we talk about bioterrorism, we don't talk about a threat of the future, we talk about events that have already occurred: the anthrax attack in the United States Capitol, whose disinfection cost millions after the September 11 attacks, and the attacks on Tokyo's subway. There have also been statements by the Government; the only one I can quote right now from the rostrum is a appearance a few months ago by the Secretary of State for Security, Mr Martínez, who informed the Committee on the Interior that in Spain, chatting had been identified - I quote - in a forum near the Islamic State on the use of Ebola as a poison weapon against the United States and against the West. I think it is good to remember that the strategy of defence against bioterrorism in Spain comes from afar. On December 11, 2001, before the terrorist attacks on September 11, at the Royal National Academy of Medicine, then medical colonel Luis Manuel Villalonga Martínez, of the General Health Inspectorate of the Ministry of Defence, in an intervention entitled General Aspects of Biological War, already pointed to the bioterrorism threat. He said - I quote -: There is a biological threat in the field of military, strategic and terrorist operations. I'm finishing the appointment. Ladies and gentlemen, the European States and the United States and Canada have had a clear and in-depth strategy to combat bioterrorism. In 2005, most European States - and I can refer to some of them in more detail, of course France, Germany, Denmark and very active Scandinavian countries - reported that the vaccines they had purchased had become obsolete and that what the French Government was already committed to in a response to last week's French National Assembly: the purchase of third-generation vaccines. But perhaps the most comprehensive project on combating bioterrorism - once again - is the project that was adopted in 2004 in the United States, the Bioshield Act, the biosecurity law to combat chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear weapons. There is a budget, because in the end the policies are defined by specific budgets and this is the last report of the unit of studies of the United States Department of Defense on the millions dedicated, specifically, to combating the various threats linked to bioterrorism: anthrax, smallpox, botulism, nuclear radiation and nerve system attackers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a reality before which we are concerned because the information we have so far in the national defence strategy, presented three weeks ago by the Secretary of State - number one in the rank of Secretary of State - and head of cabinet of the President of the Government, is non-existent in the matter of bioterrorism, and in a very specific aspect that we discussed in the Constitutional Commission and which I would also like to bring to the fore and debate in this inquiry with the Minister of Defence, I am referring to smallpox and the fight against smallpox. In this country, and throughout the world, people under the age of thirty-five are not vaccinated from smallpox because it was eradicated in the 1980s with an intense campaign of great involvement promoted by the World Health Organization. What information do we have? The information that we have - and that is public - is that the virus exists and that strains are kept in the United States - specifically at the Center for Infectious Diseases in Atlanta, called CDC, as the name of my party, but it has nothing to do with - and also in Russia - at the Vector security laboratory in Koltsovo - and that in the summer of 2004 the United States Government reported that certain vials with that forgotten virus appeared in an undeclassified place - the specific place - of the United States was not reported. On the other hand, advances in biosynthesis have opened up a new pathway for the reappearance of smallpox. The number of people with access and funds, especially non-State organizations such as the Islamic State, is increasing to systematically reconstruct the virus using techniques that currently exist of genetic material synthesis. So far research has been able to reconstruct other dangerous pathogens, such as the polio virus, which has already been artificially and genetically reconstructed by synthesis in a laboratory, and the so-called Spanish flu virus, as well as other pathogens as complex as Mycoplasma bacteria; therefore, rebuilding the smallpox genome is a possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, this is part of the past, but of a past that at the time was terribly deadly. We will easily remember how at the time the Australian Aboriginal population was annihilated, nearly 100 percent annihilated by the smallpox virus and how the mortality rate in the United States, in the indigenous population of the United States, was 80 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the situation in Spain right now, and in this connection is the policy that we can put forward as a spokesperson for defence, for the interior and for health. What are the facts, ladies and gentlemen, Minister? Spain adopted in 2003 a plan for the preparation of smallpox, entitled Recommendations for action and response to the emergence of a case or an outbreak of smallpox. It was approved by the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System on 15 April 2002 and on 7 February 2003 the Government acquired 2 million vaccines against smallpox. At that time all developed European and American countries were buying, making provision for vaccines. Since there was a great deal of demand for supplies from multiple countries, it was difficult in 2003 to find a vaccine provider and they had to be purchased diluted at 1:10. That was the purchase of 2003, but these vaccines are not current because they expired several years ago. This is the information that we have, provided by the Ministry of Health and which leads us to a very simple conclusion: ladies and gentlemen, today, in 2015, while other countries are providing third-generation vaccines for the fight against bioterrorism - the United States has acquired more than 28 million units -, Spain, waiting for better information that the Minister can provide me on method, approach and prevention and reaction, at the moment does not have the appropriate tools to fight the smallpox virus, and the entire population under thirty-five years is exposed to it. It is important that Spain has legal instruments - and this is another dimension that I would like to put to the Minister and that will certainly be an inspiration for the future motion resulting from the debate -, I do not know whether with a legal rank, with a ministerial rank or with another rank, with instructions that I know in some cases have to be discreet because we are talking about the field of defence, but with total transparency. The United States could illustrate to us, because this law - the law of biosecurity - is extraordinary about the mandate and the follow-up of the funds, about the updating of it in June 2014, absolute transparency of the United States Government before Congress, before the Capitol, to report on the fight against bioterrorism. And disappointment, the clear disappointment of the parliamentary group is the absolute absence of references. A reference, the success of the Ebola Emergency Committee, and it did not cost us anything at the time to congratulate the Government on the good performance and the good reaction in the area of Ebola. But the whole fight against bioterrorism cannot be summarized on pages 129 and 130 of this report without more detailed information. Mr Minister, sometimes the object of an inquiry is to raise an issue in general, it could have gone into more detail from the comparative models, from what is currently being done in France, Germany, very actively in Denmark, but I think the case is being raised and what we look forward to is a response, a more elaborate response, a more sophisticated design than that reflected in this annual national security report and one reflected in Mr Moragas' response to the Constitutional Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u168	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. I now give the floor to the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you bring to the House today a matter of remarkable importance, to which precisely because of its gravity we must approach, as you pointed out, with due reservation, not so much because of the condition of the problems linked to it, but precisely because you are talking about the perverse use of certain scientific knowledge in terrorist activity. There has to be, in conclusion, reservation and comedy, beyond the fact that some parts of the matter by which I am asked may be subject to classification, as could be precisely the discovery of certain anti-terrorist agents, whose public awareness might warn those who want to make them of why they do not have to go in order to achieve their objectives. The World Health Organization has always advocated that information in such events be truthful and contrasted to avoid confusion, speculation and collective panic. You are asking me about defence policy in relation to the prevention of bioterrorism attacks. This brings together two risks envisaged in the national security strategy: terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This union, fortunately unverified, is also in line with the National Defence Directive, which already defines conflict scenarios in which the hybrid is equalising and even shifting to the conventional as to the possibility of the threat, something we are talking about here specifically. Weapons of mass destruction had so far been primarily elements to be taken into account in the assessment of conventional risks to national defence. Indeed, the entire current security system is based to a greater or lesser extent on nuclear deterrence as a point of balance, as a guarantee that conflicts between the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council will not become armed conflicts; deterrence or, as was said a few years ago, the security of mutual destruction, which has also proved to be an effective system for cooling active conflicts such as that of India and Pakistan and deafening other larvae throughout the world. Today the potential relationship between terrorism and weapons of mass destruction is certainly worrying, it is a threat that we have been preparing for for fourteen years. Since the attack you cited at the World Trade Center, the asymmetric threat is perceived more intensely and the interest of non-state actors in biochemistry, nuclear and biological agents is being detected by intelligence. In this context, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1540 of 2004, which obliges States, and thus their armed forces, to combat this type of terrorist threat. Immediately at the national level as well as in the defence and security organizations to which we are a party, appropriate steps have been taken to bring the institutions concerned under pressure. It must be, and is, a cross-cutting approach - you mentioned it too - and holistic that, as you will easily understand, runs the Department of National Security of the Presidency of the Government and in which we collaborate the Ministry of the Interior, which has the main competence if we refer to the fight against internal terrorism; the Ministry of Health, responsible for public health and health surveillance and alert, which is very important in this case, and, for our part, the Ministry of Defence in its own responsibilities and with the character of an element of support for emergencies. Our system, which is constantly evolving, is based, like that of all countries in our environment, on the continuous assessment of risk and threat. Without going further and as a sample, the Government is currently working on the extensive network of biological alert laboratories, known as Relab. Returning to the subject of the inquiry, in the field of defence we have developed a specific and incardinated NBQ defence doctrine in NATO. The crisis triggered by the shipment of carbon-containing packages in the United States served as a revulsive to integrate civic-military response capabilities to biological incidents. Thus, the NBQ, nuclear, biological and chemical defence units - surely the best prepared to deal with this type of threat - were integrated, with the capabilities of decontamination and recognition in the system of response to biological incidents. In this doctrine it is the responsibility of the personnel of the military health corps to develop and collaborate in health protection activities in the NBQ environment. In this way, personnel of the military health corps were responsible for training the personnel of the State Security Corps and Forces to manage possible incidents of this kind. On the other hand, these staff and capacities are integrated into the technical reference groups established to manage this type of crisis. The international commitments initially made by Spain in relation to the NBQ defence have resulted in the acquisition of the capacity for decontamination of victims as well as presumptive detection at brigade level and confirmed identification at the level of the NBQ defence regiment, all in relation to the main biological agents, including poxviruses such as smallpox. Currently, in addition to the NBQ regiment, the UME also has advanced capabilities of this type. The following lines of action are included in the defence strategy against bioterrorism in particular by the Armed Forces. Epidemiological warning systems have been developed, which is essential in this case. Major biologic agents with potential bioterrorism use are included in the mandatory reporting disease system, establishing collaborative and information-sharing relationships with civil health for epidemiological surveillance and control of communicable diseases. Capacities have been integrated into health systems, such as the system of decontamination of affected persons, and in this regard the NBQ defence and non-health units have the capacity to decontamination of victims, materials, equipment and vehicles, and sanitary facilities for isolation. Within this doctrine the restriction of movements has also been established as a form of disease control, and health units can be used to establish quarantines and isolation, depending on operational needs and in support of the civil authorities. At the same time - and as you probably know from the dissemination of the recent agreement of the Council of Ministers - the works of improvement of the 22nd plant of the Central Military Hospital of Defense are currently being carried out in order to be able to care in appropriate conditions of biosecurity for individuals affected by extremely infectious agents that could affect the population. As far as training is concerned, the correct assessment of the biological threat and the response to biological incidents are, of course, well known. Therefore, 30% of the curriculum content of the NBQ defense specialist course is dedicated precisely to biological defense. On the other hand, the Armed Forces collaborate with the National Civil Protection System in training activities for voluntary personnel of civil protection groups, as well as local or municipal police, along with personnel of the State Security Forces and Bodies. A good example is the fact that in the past Ebola crisis it was precisely the Armed Forces, and in particular the Earth Army Health Brigade, that were responsible for carrying out training activities for the correct use of personal protective equipment. Communication policies have also been established, as the proper assessment of the threat and knowledge of biological agents always reduces the level of alarm in society. For this reason, personnel of the military health corps have been, and will continue to be, integrated into the communications teams of the Army or the Ministry of Defence in relation to crises related to the use of biological weapons. With regard to interdepartmental integration and coordination, the response to a biological incident involves the integration of capabilities - including, of course, those of nuclear, biological and chemical defence - into the National Crisis Management System, in order to ensure proper and holistic incident management. This integration and coordination is particularly close between the Ministry of Defence and the State Security Forces and Bodies. It serves as an example that personnel of the military health corps, among others, participate actively in the training of personnel of the National Police Corps, Civil Guard, Ertzaintza and Mossos d'Esquadra, and also form autonomous emergency hospital services, such as the Summa 112 of Madrid, the Sacyl de Castilla y León or the SEM of Catalonia or, at the municipal level, the Samur-PC of Madrid. Also for a few years now, extra-hospital emergency health units or the Red Cross have been involved in joint exercises and exercises in which biological defence activities are carried out. Finally, with regard to the generation of response plans, the System for the Monitoring of Diseases of Compulsory Declaration of the Armed Forces is integrated into the National Epidemiological Monitoring Network for the preparation and revision of protocols for diseases included in the system. Going to the heart of his intervention and in relation to the virus of smallpox, eradicated disease whose natural or intentional emergency could have the catastrophic consequences that his lordship pointed out, in all training activities a special emphasis is placed on his study. Early detection of the virus with a correct epidemiological surveillance system will allow us to establish appropriate control measures, including quarantine and isolation, as well as immunoprophylaxis, to reduce the possible transmission of the disease. With regard to the development of new therapeutic products and the maintenance of stocks on the basis of threat analysis, the need for the Defence Pharmacy Centre to produce, within its petition, anti-dotal drugs against chemical agents of war, as well as polyvalent antibiotics against major biological agents has been established. Similarly, potassium iodide is produced for adults and children to deal with other incidents such as radioactives. At the same time, a continuous analysis of new therapeutic products is carried out for possible integration into response plans and is in continuous communication with pharmaceutical companies to monitor the development and application of new products. In the particular case of smallpox virus, the Defense Pharmacy Centre has had a strategic vaccine reserve since 2001. The health authorities established, on the basis of risk analysis, a post-exposure vaccination policy in case of spread of the virus. The honourable Member, in short, the Armed Forces and in particular their NBQ defence units are trained in biological defence, enabling them to detect, decontaminate and prevent the spread of biological warfare and bioterrorism agents in the event of such an event. All of its NBQ defence policies are integrated into NATO's standardization agreements, in the response plans of the Ministry of the Interior and in the protocols designed for this purpose by the Ministry of Health, in all cases with the necessary knowledge at the highest level of scientific current and with the availability of the latest technologies and equipment available in any country in our environment. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u170	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that at the moment the House has much and better information than could be distilled from the annual report, from the annual national security strategy. I am aware that the Minister read the speech, the appearance, and he has also had access and handled the report. I believe that it is urgent and indispensable to update and incorporate, in this integration policy, coordinated work between different departments all the information that you have transferred to us, because the official report, the reference report that the international community certainly has in mind, is the report that is coordinated by the Presidency of the Government, and that is a report in which there are simply brief references to the Ebola response unit, but there are no references to the information that you have transferred to us and that I personally have been reassured because of your response to my question it is clear that the Government is working. You have started with the reservation clause, which I respect absolutely and which I can understand, so what I will tell you now does not understand it as a frontal replica. There are other models in which transparency is chosen to an extreme degree. This report, which we can access through the Network, through the Internet, and which is part of the information service of the United States Congress, informs us exactly of the measures, of the budgets allocated, as well as of the inappropriate countermeasures - inappropriate countermeasures -, making in this way critical by the United States Government itself; it informs us of the funding amounts, of the replacement of the countermeasures, of the prioritization of the countermeasures. [[shows a document]] I therefore respect the reservation clause and thank you for the additional information you have given us regarding what happened in the debate in the Constitutional Commission three weeks ago, but I have put to you an alternative model in which not only do legislators access this knowledge, but it is hanging on the network so that anyone can access it. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this strategy must be integrated immediately. You have spoken of a strategy that 14 years ago is being developed by the ministry and that no one, fortunately, has ever raised the flag of the alarm about the bioterrorism struggle. Those who have raised the flag of alarm are those people who were reported by the Secretary of State for Security, Fr. Francisco Martínez, to the Constitutional Commission, when a chat was detected talking about bioterrorism as a possible threat to the countries that share Western values. It is therefore good that the population is aware of all the instruments available to the Government, that it is working with this holistic approach - as you have rightly said - to combat bioterrorism, because that is not known. And it is true that to prevent a conflict you can practice silence, but when those who threaten, non-state actors do want to use it and start using it in the Network, it is very important that society has the peace of mind to know that the Government, in coordination with the autonomous police - you have made reference - with the hospitals and health departments, is also working on this aspect. You've made a special reference to smallpox, which I appreciate. He has told us about effective antibiotics and product studies that can be integrated. I have raised something very simple for information that comes to us from the Ministry of Health: vaccines acquired in 2003 are expired. You are currently sitting next to the Minister of Finance, who in the end will have something to do with the replacement of these expired vaccines. I would like you to be able to inform us in more detail about this aspect. In the United States, the United States Government has already acquired 28 million units of smallpox vaccines, third-generation vaccines to fight smallpox because, in addition to antibiotics and new products, the most effective way to fight smallpox is to acquire third-generation vaccines. Verbal time is very important, you have used the expression 'that will allow us', I would like to know about the particular position of the Government and the measures that are being taken in coordination with the Defence, Interior and Presidency of the Government, together with Health. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Their response reassures us, their response, as a copy-paste, would have to be integrated into the National Security Report this afternoon because the debate on the subject in the Constitutional Commission left us very concerned. I think we need to reflect on measures of transparency and greater information to this House in line with what I have shown you about the United States and also in practical policies we will have to take the appropriate budgetary and strategy measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u172	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. Mr. Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Your Honor. I think there are three parts to your presentation; I am glad to have listened to one of them, to your concern. Indeed, the Government is doing things together from the point of view of training, from the point of view of the integration of its capacities and from the point of view of the concrete measures being taken. I believe that the policy, let's say, of transparency of the United States comes to where it comes from. I have tested entering some specific areas to see what kind of antigen is being used in the United States to combat bioterrorism, and obviously it does not appear. And it does not appear for a very obvious reason: because if someone explains what is going to be fought with, who has the capacity, as his lordship has rightly pointed out, to genetically or chemically modify these agents, he has a huge lead to develop others. But having said this, which is the subject of the most elementary prudence with which we are talking, I remain with the approach your lordship makes to knowing what the latest developments may be in the effective fight against a bioterrorist attack, and in particular we have talked about the issue of smallpox, which is certainly not the only one, and the capabilities we have. I've been talking about the Ministry of Defense's reservation against smallpox. And just as I have reassured you, you leave me a little worried about the elements of expiration, which is certainly not what comes to me from the military pharmacy about the vaccines that might exist. But I am going to investigate all those that could be linked to other departments, since that circumstance could be affecting the main objective of what we are doing here, which is precisely to prevent and, in its case, to combat a bioterrorism attack in which this type of action, particularly vaccines, has to be the most important element, in addition to those others that I have mentioned here that are also very important, training, joint action, analysis of the population when it is believed that such an attack can occur, something that, as you have seen in the United States and in other countries, is considered an essential element to prevent the spread of the disease if that can occur. With this task that remains for me to investigate the issue that concerns you about the expiry of vaccines that might exist in other areas, I assure you that the Government is doing its policy of combating bioterrorism in accordance with the instructions set out in the international defence agencies to which we belong and in those others to which we are also united through the health development of our countries. Moreover, we have - because that is the responsibility of the defence in a very special way - the constant monitoring of the anti-terrorist activity and the communication between them on any kind of attack - which is what derives from the intervention of the Secretary of State for Security - or thought on this matter. But I want to warn you one thing. The entire antibiotic doctrine states this: we must not believe that the bioterrorism attack is an easy element for the terrorist, it is a development that requires an extraordinary technological capacity, it requires a series of very important security measures for those who are developing the attack, it can be extraordinarily counterproductive and it can have a very important boomerang effect and that is why it has been discarded on many occasions. It's not an easy-to-use item. However, it is an element in relation to which, precisely because it affects security, we have to plan and develop countermeasures as if it were really easy to use. Before I finish this appearance I want to pay tribute to the Airbus A400M crew members who lost their lives last Saturday. Yesterday I was able to be with your families and I want to send you from here, from the seat of popular sovereignty, once again the embrace - I am sure shared by all of you - in closeness and affection. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u174	Thank you, Minister. The Bureau - I believe on behalf of all Members - also shares its solidarity with the victims of the accident in Seville on Saturday. Thank you. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE GUIDANCE OF TAX POLICY CONTAINED IN THE UPDATE OF THE 2015-2018 STABILITY PROGRAMME AND ITS EFFECTS ON DISABILITY. [[File number 172/000312]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u175	The next question, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is about the orientation of fiscal policy contained in the update of the 2015-2018 Stability Programme and its effects on inequality. For your defense, Mr. Saura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, social cohesion in our view is a good to be respected, a good to be preserved not only for ethical and moral reasons but also for economic reasons, but your Government's economic policy has helped to increase inequalities in Spain. What is more, there is something that we are deeply and most importantly concerned about: that its medium-term economic policy bets on growth but at the cost of equality. That is what worries us most, if any, that its medium-term economic project for Spain is based on growth at the cost of equality. It is true that this is part of their ideological project and their way of seeing and understanding society, but, in our view, in addition to being unjust, it is irresponsible because without social cohesion the suffering of citizens is greater and less lasting and less solid economic growth. The fundamental question of updating the stability programme is essentially the combination of the evolution of collection, the level of public expenditure and social policy. In my view, that is the substance of the documents sent to Brussels. In short, what emerges from them, Minister, is a government's commitment to a model of society, a bid to jibarize the state and a regressive fiscal policy with a very obvious consequence, which is the increase in inequality. [[The lady]] This I just said I'm going to hold on to in four ideas. The first, for the honourable Members to understand, is that the government's medium-term objective is 38% public revenue in relation to GDP. Since the public deficit targets must be met, Minister, this implies that public expenditure, which is currently at 44 % in relation to GDP, must be at 38 % in relation to GDP. Consequently, as far as income is concerned, we are in line with the 28 countries of the European Union - only Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Ireland or Romania have lower public revenues than Spain - and, from the point of view of public expenditure, far from the euro area average, where, as you know, public expenditure is between 48 % and 49 % of GDP, and, of course, very far from 55 % of France or Denmark. It is a state of minimum welfare, because the aspiration of your Government, Mr Montoro, is a minimum collection. The aspiration of the socialists and the aspiration, in our view, of society as a majority, are higher levels of income and those higher levels of income do not in any way imply an increase in taxes. I am talking about another type of growth model, a growth that would involve greater collection, because if employment is of higher quality the collection could be greater, and a bet, logically, to increase the tax base and fight effectively against tax fraud. The second idea I wanted to convey to you, ladies and gentlemen, is that the evolution of public revenue and expenditure between 2011 and 2018 shows a regressive fiscal policy. For the whole period, fiscal policy - and when I talk about fiscal policy I always talk about income and expenditure - increases the social gap, as well as the transfer of income from lower income to higher income. I'll explain myself. Since 2011, public revenues in relation to GDP have grown four points. From 2011 to 2018, according to the government, public revenues will grow by four points. Approximately one point has been devoted to tax reform, which, as we have shown on many occasions, is primarily a gift for higher incomes and large corporations. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the richest 10% of this country takes more than 50% of the cost of its tax reform. However, despite a four-point increase in collection over the whole period 2011-2018, the stability programme says that public social expenditure falls by three points relative to GDP, from 28 % to 25 %. When I talk about social spending, I'm talking about housing, education, health and social protection. In other words, throughout the period the collection has grown four points and social spending has declined three points in relation to GDP. If we adjust these three points to the cycle, Minister, social spending is actually reduced by two points of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, if taxes are raised, mainly indirect taxes, we must at least compensate middle income and workers with the highest social expenditure, especially if these people, these incomes and these workers have undergone reforms such as the labour market, labour reform. In other words, the collection is growing and yet it does not compensate the citizens who are suffering the most from the crisis and the reforms of the Government. Furthermore, Minister, from the loss of weight of social expenditure in GDP, more social cuts are coming in nominal terms, if we take into account two important aspects that are derived from the stability programme that they have sent to Brussels. The first is the reduction of 100,000 public employees for all administrations in the period you have considered. Sixty per cent of the cut in public employees is for the Autonomous Communities; that is, 60,000 less public employees in the Autonomous Communities, which are basically teachers, teachers, university professors, doctors and ATS. Secondly, public consumption, which, as you know, 90% is composed of public employees' remuneration and intermediate consumption, in absolute terms remains constant and in relative terms loses two points in relation to GDP. These two data, which are derived from the stability programme, lead us to say that not only does social spending lose weight on GDP, but there will also be real cuts in this government's social policy. The third idea I wanted to convey to you this morning is about the fall in income, which for this government is an excellent excuse, a great opportunity to make a smaller, more jibarized social state. That's his ideological choice. In other words, as much as the collection increases, you do not want public revenue to exceed 38% of GDP, because when that happens you are going to lower taxes to the richest 10% of the country, because you govern for that 10% primarily. In their stability programme they will not want, despite the increase in collection, to increase from 38%. That is why I say to you that the fall in public revenue is an excellent excuse for making a small public state, as small as possible, one of the smallest social and welfare states in the European Union. The fourth idea I wanted to pass on to you this morning to your ladies and gentlemen and to the Minister is also very clear. Higher public revenues do not necessarily represent a remorse for economic growth. Quite the opposite. The most developed countries, the most productive countries, the most competitive countries, the countries that work best on the international stage, are the countries with the highest levels of public income and the highest levels of social expenditure and public expenditure. Only the countries of northern Europe should be looked at. In short, Mr Montoro, what you are asking, the most important of the stability programme, the fundamental question, beyond the discussion of growth figures, which many analysts do not believe, is that you describe a model of society, a model of social policy, a state of minimum welfare, jibarized, because you take advantage of the fall in public income in this country to say that this is your model and that when we move from 38%, which is to be at the tail of the European Union and the developed world - at the level of the Congo, for example - in public spending, you are going to lower taxes to higher incomes. This is what they're gonna do. This is what your stability programme says, and this is the important thing. There are two models, yours, the ideologically right, and a progressive alternative model. Spanish society cannot and does not want to have a minimum social state, because social cohesion - as I said at the beginning - is a very important good, a very important good from the point of view of minimizing the suffering of people, but also from the point of view of competitiveness. We're playing a lot. There would be less suffering and more economic growth. What is at stake in that stability programme that you have sent to Brussels is our country's social model. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister for Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u178	Madam President. Mr Saura, I will summarise what the Government intends with its policy and its stability programme: creating employment. This is the great term that makes a socially cohesive society, which makes us have a society of equal opportunities: employment; employment for young people; employment for women under the same conditions as men, in short, employment, opportunities for occupation. That is the stability programme that the Spanish Government has referred to the European Commission and the other European partners, because it is the one that allows, the only one that allows Spain to tend to be what it is not today, a country more based in terms of equity than it was in the past. You rise to the rostrum and make an ideological approach - it is completely in your right - that is not supported by a single figure that you have read or understood from the stability programme. Nor does it stand for ideological reasons, because when we talk about taxation, you make some claims for ideological reasons that are completely out of tune. We will see the history of our country in terms of inequality. Indicator 80/20, that is, the indicator that makes the difference between what people with the highest economic capacity and those with the lowest economic capacity in our country are taxed. What's wrong with that indicator? From 2005 to 2007, Spain was slightly above the European average, until 2008, ruling a socialist government. What happened to that indicator? That he went up and distanced himself from the European average. When? What did the former socialist government do to make that happen? Losing a job. I'm not talking about tax reform, no, I'm talking about losing a job. If employment is being destroyed in Spain, the most expressive indicator of tax inequality goes up. Next indicator: Gini index, what happened with the Gini index in 2008 in Spain? That we were very close to the EU average. What happened from then on? That it got worse dramatically, that it went up. What has happened in Spain since 2008, in addition to the fact that it governs the socialist government, with the good it does, in the sense of the social protection it gives? That Gini's index goes up. Why? Because 3.5 million jobs are destroyed in their legislatures. That's how I read them. Next indicator: poverty, Arope indicator. What about poverty in Spain? From 2009 onwards, it goes above the European average. Why? For the destruction of jobs. And I keep reading it. Poverty risk rate: it also goes up. It also does, of course, the rate of risk of child poverty, which goes up in Spain when we enter the phase of job destruction. This is absolutely fundamental; it is the statistics of the European Union. That's right, you have to read them, you have to handle them from time to time and get out of so much ideology and so much prejudice; you have to go up to the rostrum, rather than asserting prejudices, with graphics and statistics. The government program, what is it? Let us have twenty million occupied in the next parliamentary term. That is the programme of the Government, which we have the same level of occupation that we came to have before the 2007 crisis, the crisis that did not exist in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, because they will all remember that this crisis did not exist and that is why we got into it without elements of prevention. From there, how do we get this, Mr. Saura? As we have done during the first years of this legislature. What have we done? Reduce the public deficit and preserve the welfare state. Or wasn't it? Have we kept the welfare state at 27.5 % of gross domestic product or has it not been? Of course that has been the case; it has been because that is what the weight of our expenditure on pensions says, which has risen. Unemployment expenditure has also risen, unfortunately, because millions of people have had to use those unemployment benefits; it is now falling because we have more and more jobs, which is what it is about. That stability programme projects more than 500,000 jobs by 2015 and, with that pace of job creation, we will be 20 million in the next parliamentary term. What have we done in this legislature, with figures, Mr Saura? Are these the figures or are they not the figures for this legislature? Have we not mobilised liquidity programmes for the autonomous communities and municipalities worth EUR 183 billion, of which 70% have gone to finance social protection in our country, i.e. health, education, social services? What would have happened if we hadn't mobilized those 183 billion euros with public hospitals, public schools and social benefits, including dependency? What would have happened? I ask a rhetorical question, because the answer is very easy. If these years had not been able to pay the debts, it is clear that the pharmaceutical laboratories in Spain would have been withdrawn and that hospitals would have had to be closed. But no hospitals have been closed in our country; on the contrary, they are open and hospitals continue to be opened as, of course, there is a demand from the population. But these are numbers, I'll bring you the numbers. I understand that the figures, compared to the rhetoric the Socialist Party spends... He goes up to talk about ideology and the government talks about the figures he has mobilized in this legislature. Have we reduced the public deficit in this legislature? Yeah. And has that had to do with us having job-creating economic growth today? Everything has to do with everything; that and the structural reforms that we have introduced. This is the first time in Spain's economic history, the first time, that jobs are created with thresholds of economic growth slightly above 1%. It's the first time it's happened to us. We will have done something in terms of changing and modernising labour relations in our country. Is it the first time that surplus jobs are being created in Spain, or do you know, that you are a full professor of economics, some stage in our history where we have been able to create surplus jobs in our current account vis-à-vis the rest of the world? Do you know her? No, no, This is the first time this has happened, and that has to do with the reforms we are implementing. The Government's plan is to continue the reduction of the government deficit. How? Moderating the growth of public expenditure, making nominal expenditure grow less than gross domestic product in nominal terms. That is possible, and it means that the stability programme is also incorporated, the maintenance of public expenditure per capita in our country is reported, something which his lordship has not read. Public expenditure per capita, which is actually the benchmark in terms of the maintenance of public services, in this stability programme would be, closing 2018, at 9,289 euros. In 2007, the same figure, the same ratio, was 9.339. Therefore, what he plans is a cut that leads us to the same per capita expenditure as in 2007. These are also figures, Mr. Saura. You have to handle the numbers and read them to them. [[Show a document]] You go up to the rostrum to make a series of statements about ideological prejudices that are not sustained in any number and with such confrontations happens what happens. Is this the case, or is it not, in the stability programme that the Spanish Government has submitted? The other figure, the last one, refers to tax reform. How are we gonna make people get more jobs? Growing up. How are we going to get wages back into purchasing power? Lowering taxes on wages; we have already begun to do so with the first phase of tax reform that is being implemented this year. You say that this tax reform is for 10% of the population, but it is on the contrary, Mr Saura. For 70% of Spanish taxpayers who are making the income tax declaration today, these months, these weeks, the 15th and 16th tax reductions mean a 25% reduction in their personal income tax. This reform is for those who have less income and that means you're liberating economic capacity for it, isn't it, Mr. Saura? [[The Lord]] Aren't these the figures for tax collection? For that is what we are doing and that is what is facilitating the recovery of consumption. Among other reasons, why is consumption growing in 2015? Because we've lowered the income tax. By the way, we have lowered the income tax, something we did not say in our election program, because we were already afraid of what we were going to find. In our 2011 election program, we didn't say a word about lowering the income tax, but we've lowered it by 25% to taxpayers with incomes up to 24,000 euros, and that's what you call tax reforming for the people who earn the most in Spain. There is not a single figure of what you have come here to discuss and put before the Government, Mr Saura, but we are pleased to be at your disposal to clarify the policies. The difference, I insist, between a country in northern and southern Europe, apart from the size of its state, is in employment, whether people have jobs or not. That's the big difference. If people don't have jobs, they don't have jobs; if young people don't have jobs and they don't have jobs, we're never going to be Europe of the north, of the center, of the middle-south. In Spain we need to create jobs and those are the budgetary policies that we have to emphasize, keeping the other elements of social cohesion, treating our elders with a pension scheme that has allowed pensions in Spain to advance in this legislature and gain purchasing power - more than 2 billion euros increase -, maintaining, for the reasons I said before...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u179	Minister, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u180	I'm done, Mr. President. As I said, maintaining the fundamental elements of our welfare state - we are Europe - and making tax collection respond effectively to parameters of equity, because if we do not do so it is not that we are not Europe, that we will not generate trust and investment and, above all, we will not be able to create jobs. Employment is already being created, Mr Saura, and now ask yourself how your Lordship has contributed to this process of job creation in this legislature, which you, as the Finance Spokesman of the Socialist Group, have systematically denied, opposing each and every one of the proposals for economic and budgetary policy reform that the Government has brought to this House. Fortunately, today we are already in a different process. I hope that we can agree on some of the elements of the motion put forward by the Socialist Group following this inquiry and that we can say that there are elements in which the great political formations of our country can coincide, particularly in the great objective of job creation. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. I will give you a first consideration, Mr Montoro: You have a big problem in politics and it is that you do not respect anyone, you do not respect your opponents, you do not respect Members of the House, you do not respect the media or the social partners. Mr. Montoro, have some respect. I read exactly the same as you read the stability program, you know perfectly well. I have one point of view and you have another, so far we can get there, but from there saying that I haven't read it and that I haven't put numbers on the table reflects that you have a problem. I insist, I am not the one to give advice to you, but you have a problem of education and respect with the other groups in the House and with Members. I did not want to tell you, but at this point I have to do it: You have a problem of education and respect, yes, of education and respect. Secondly, the problem is what kind of employment. That is the question: what kind of employment, because, point one, there are 700,000 fewer jobs right now than when the legislature began, and point two, the employment that has been created is not new employment, it is sharing of existing employment. That is the issue, that is the question: what kind of employment, because it turns out that workers who are in the lowest income decile, those who paid EUR 495, have lost a 25% purchasing power, that is, they charge EUR 414. But can you live with 414 euros, a 25% loss? No, no, The essential thing is what kind of employment, because moreover, if employment is of that quality, the collection of the Tax Agency is smaller and the welfare state is worse. The key is the type of employment and in that sense what you have raised is an increase in inequality to grow, let us not forget. There is a tailwind of the international economy that is changing the European and international economy; there is a change in European economic policy thanks to social democracy, because you did not agree with that change in monetary policy. Moreover, you have been betting on inequality and that is what worries us, because it does not resist the medium and long term. That bet on inequality does not withstand sustained growth over time, that is the problem. There's the productivity data. In this stability programme, total factor productivity is zero or negative. That's the key, it's productivity, it's the type of job, it's salary. He told me about what they've done. Of course we have experienced the deepest crisis that is remembered in a very long time, but you the welfare state have made it much smaller and, in addition, you have made an income transfer from bottom to top. I'm going to give you two data. The average income and the workers have been taxed essentially indirectly by 20 billion euros, data from the IGAE, of the General Intervention of the State Administration. And discretionary spending on these people, who are in their hands, who have nothing to do with pensions, has fallen by 12 billion euros. IGAE says that, not the Socialist Group. Look at the figures, Mr. Montoro, that I look at them. Therefore, in the face of the greatest crisis in history, in the face of the greatest increase in inequality - as the OECD says, that Spain has experienced the greatest increase in the inequality of developed economies - the response they have given at this time has been to increase taxes on middle and low incomes by EUR 20 billion and, in addition, to cut discretionary public spending by EUR 12 billion. You always count the milonga of the reduction of the public deficit. I'll give you two data too. First, the public debt has increased since you became Minister of Finance by 43%. Secondly, the public deficit that falls to the central administration, to yours, to which you direct, is 8 billion euros higher in 2014 than in 2011. Mr. Montoro, how can it be? The central administration, which you lead, has a deficit of 8 billion euros more in 2014 than in 2011. What a coincidence!, they have cut off, yes, the autonomous communities, which have among their competences the welfare state. Mr. Montoro, don't breast-feed. You spend more, you have a deficit of 8 billion euros higher than in 2011. By the way, as far as the external sector is concerned, Spain's net external debt has been at 93 % for a very long time, that is to say, what we owe the rest of the world clearly is at 93,5% exactly and public debt close to 100 %. But what medals can this government put on in the fight against the external deficit and against the public deficit? In view of the picture we are experiencing - because the International Monetary Fund tells us that in 2020 the unemployment rate will still be 20% in Spain -, in view of the problem of unemployment, the problem of the type of employment we have in our country, in view of the increase in inequality - the largest in the developed countries - how does the Government respond? I'm going to sum it up easily. The collection is going to grow by four points in relation to GDP - I have already explained it to you -, one is carried by the higher incomes and the larger societies with their tax reform and it turns out that, despite increasing the collection, social spending on health, education, housing and social protection is reduced by three points. Don't tell me that's gonna increase social cohesion. There is more collection and social spending decreases by three points; if we adjust it in relation to the cycle, two points. Is that the policy of social cohesion? No, that's a regressive government fiscal policy. Most importantly - I told you at first - you want to have a welfare state and a public spending of 38% on GDP. That's their social goal. I would remind you, Mr Montoro, that this means being at the tail of the countries of the European Union, even at the tail of the least developed countries of the European Union, even at the tail of the least competitive countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u183	Mr. Saura, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u184	I'm done, Mr. President. That's putting us on the line of the welfare of the world. Spain will have as much public and social spending as the Republic of the Congo. Is that the aspiration you have for Spanish society, to have the level of the Republic of Congo? Thank you, Mr. President. And, Minister, I give you a piece of advice: have education with the rest of the political groups and with the parliamentarians of this democratically elected House. Thank you again, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u185	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister for Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. The reference to education has touched me because, if your honor has felt very upset when I reproached you for the ignorance of a figure, how would I feel after the parliamentary sessions that I am living with the real atrocities that your lordship says about me every day? And they're not numbers. As I'm telling you, I've been freaked out. The skin of the honourable Member and the Socialist Group to give rules of respect in this House! Finally, Mr Saura, if you want me to give you all your speeches and all the disqualifications you have made to me personally, which, by the way, none is based on figures. That's why I was saying that I really like to talk about figures, because there is one of the stability programme that you are completely unaware of: how much employment you expect to create with the stability programme, and it's full-time employment, you don't distribute employment in terms of national accounts. You want that one? About 500,000 a year. Employment of the EPA. Do you want that or do you prefer the employment of Social Security affiliates? No, he doesn't want to hear about what's happening in Spain. Mr Saura, do you and the Socialist Group not respect a country that is creating 500,000 jobs a year? Do you really think this is something to be ruled out? He says, "No respect. What you do not respect is the initiative of the Spaniards, they have never understood it. You went up to the wave of an economic recovery that we left you in 2004, spent what you wouldn't have to spend at the time, made tax reforms like those of 2006 and 2007, tax collection went down €70 billion and left us with drawers not empty but full of invoices. All that public debt we've had to use, where did it go? I have already explained: to pay the commercial debt. Who had the commercial debt? When I was Minister of Finance, there was no such problem with the use of 409 and 413. I have had to return to be Spain's finance minister to pay the accumulation of commercial debt bills that socialist governments had not even been responsible for monitoring. [[Applauds]] And from there, the important thing is that we've been able to pay them. Or haven't the bills been paid? Mr Saura, haven't the invoices been paid in Catalonia, Andalusia, Asturias, the Valencian Community? He says, he's increased public debt. Why is public debt increased? To pay the bills they left us. Or are they not in the management of that entire territorial welfare state administration? Ask them, ask the rulers of the Socialist Party who have ruled with the United Left. Have they not paid the bills because the Spanish Government has been promoting these liquidity mechanisms? We have been able to mobilise €183 billion from 2012 to the beginning of 2015, 70% dedicated to the welfare state, ladies and gentlemen. And that's not worth it, no, that's because there's a government that likes to increase public debt. It's fantastic! Really remarkable and notorious, Mr. Saura, the handling you do. With regard to the tax reform of the Government, it is not that it does not handle figures, what you do is damage those figures. But how can you go up to the rostrum to say that we have lowered taxes to the richest in the country if when we arrived at the government the big companies were not paying corporation tax and with us they have paid it and are still paying corporation tax during this legislature? How can you say that the reform that we are now implementing really does not outweigh the decline of the IRPF over the lower incomes when objectively it is so, quantifying itself and without quantifying? What happens is that you and Mr Sánchez like the demagogic approach and say: You work for 10% of the Spanish population, who are the rich. They have put this kind of political statement here, and from that they repeat, repeat and repeat in case anyone doesn't analyze the figures, but this is objective. Can you seriously deny that the reduction that has been made in the IRPF this year no longer benefits lower incomes? Are you serious? He doesn't mean it. The day you go up and say it seriously maybe you can look at it differently because you will not fail to recognize, Mr Saura, that your position throughout this legislature has been the same: to disqualify the government and its actions. However, we will have done something right when we are the leaders of Europe in growth and job creation; we will have done something right when we have exceeded the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund, which in July 2013 forecast for Spain zero growth in 2014. International Monetary Fund. We have surpassed them by far and now the forecast is that in 2018 the unemployment rate in Spain will be at 15%. If we continue with these policies of reduction of the public deficit and structural reforms, Spain at the end of the next legislature could again have the same occupation rate that we had before the crisis, before 2007, also having a much more homologable unemployment rates with our European environment. We are Europe to have a welfare state, to participate in a process of political integration that guarantees the welfare of our citizens, but we are also Europe to be a society of equal opportunities, where our young people, all social strata and of course women find the same opportunities as the rest of the members of that society. That is why we are Europe, and that is why we can say today that we are proud to lead economic growth and job creation in Europe. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u187	Thank you very much, Minister for Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u188	Let us now discuss the motion that we did not discuss yesterday. Both this motion and the decree-laws and other laws, plus the amendments to the whole that we will see later, will be voted on Thursday. The motion is from the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, on the development and implementation of the Organic Law 8/2013, of 9 December, for the improvement of the quality of education is being done by the Government. Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u189	President, ladies and gentlemen, headline yesterday morning: 'Euskadi, leader in educational excellence'. I wonder what the minister will think today. Euskadi, leader in educational excellence. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I do not say this, as the report presented last Monday points out, which has been prepared by the Professionals for Ethics and entitled 'Educational policies in Spain-Ranking of educational excellence 2015'. As you will know, this is an independent civil association made up of professionals from all over the state and, by the way, nothing suspicious of being conniving with this parliamentary group. The study, based on the latest data published by the Ministry of Education in February of this year, analyzes and weighs 58 indicators, organized in nine areas: schooling, graduation, suitability, early educational abandonment, social initiative centers, educational expenditure, ratios of computer resources and complements and efficiency in educational expenditure. And it is conclusive: the Basque education system is the best. Our rating, measured in parameters of excellence, is 8.8 out of 10. Minister - you are not here, but I suppose you will listen to me or read me -, who is wrong and who is going to shut up? Who's it gonna be? Who is blinded and emptied in an obsession that is incomprehensible to all the educational administrations of the autonomous communities that are not of their color, which is incomprehensible to practically all the parliamentary groups of this House, the education sector and civil society? Moreover, I would dare say that it is incomprehensible to many of your fellow players and party players, some of them my friends. Well, you, Minister, your ministry and your government. And the worst part of it is that you have tried to make up your loneliness, your impeccability throughout the process of managing and processing the Lomce under false offers of dialogue while you, your ministry, your Government and the People's Parliamentary Group give it support, acted like monkeys in Gibraltar: covering your ears so as not to listen and closing your eyes so as not to look. And not only that, you have also demonstrated - and now I am referring to the minister - a defachation contrary to any political ethics by concealing your inability to carry out the political program of your party, of the People's Party, in the matter of education: your commitment to generate an ex novo law where to collect your model, that of the People's Party, because we cannot forget that Lomce is nothing but a LOE, it is LOE, a socialist law, subjected to surgery because we do not know what interests they have never been able to justify. To this end, the debate has been curtailed, all the bridges have been blown up, all the consensus that has been forged for years without achieving the essential objective of bringing stability to the education system. And even worse, while they offered dialogue dialectically they have been bombarding by land, sea and air the pillars of the social state, also in the matter of education: re-centralizing, standardizing, destroying equity, generating inequalities, undervaluing the role of the teacher in education, removing the decision center from the classroom, the educational center, reducing the law, laminating competences to the autonomous communities in a fraudulent way - I understand that a law fraud - with the sole interest of grabbing all power. In short, by building a two-speed country and thus perverting the essentials of democracy. He has been launching attacks with all the artillery of the State against his own languages, sowing discord between the citizens, inoculating hatred towards the Basque and Catalan with interests that I understand have been clearly sectarian and electoralists. What if I didn't rate the shootings, for example, of the popular mayor of Vitoria-Gasteiz, Javier Maroto, towards the Basque country? Or the recent statements of the government delegate in the Basque Country, Carlos Urquijo, denouncing a supposed lack of freedom suffered by Basque citizens - and I quote literally - asphyxiated by linguistic impositions? For I personally believe that they are lies, so, simply and plainly, I will not call them in any other way, the euphemisms remain. And what about the recent appeal lodged by the Ministry of Education against the Catalan Enrolment Decree, which aims to impact fully against the one, questioned in Catalonia, model of linguistic immersion? They are wrong because that makes us stronger, because despite their attacks we will continue to express ourselves in our language, despite the obstacles and the policy of bassura we will continue to speak in Basque and Catalan. [[Pronounce words in Catalan and then in Basque]] They couldn't with us in forty years of dictatorship, and they're going to be able now? They won't believe it! And they're wrong, and forgive me for the expression, because it's the silly genre to destroy what works instead of improving it; because it's the silly genre to uniform on the basis of lowering expectations; because it's the silly genre to try to carry forward a project that's touched by death. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party - I am once again addressing Minister Wert who is not a Member - you have failed to convince and have come to the stage of the draft draft of the royal decree of assessments in the same way as you have done throughout the process of processing the Lomce: without any consensus, in absolute solitude and at a stroke of decree, of revalidation and of absolute majority. I conclude as I started: 'Euskadi, leader in educational excellence'. Its evaluation system does not serve us, it does not serve any model of learning that is based on competences, such as Basque. I therefore call once again for consensus, I call for reflection. Think about it, we've done it. You are likely to be faced with the last chance to try to reach a minimum consensus on education. Therefore, by appealing to his many offers of dialogue - the minister the other day during the debate of the interpellation on three occasions offered the possibility of resuming the word, active listening - I trust that they will vote in favour of this motion and agree to temporarily suspend the processing of the royal decree by initiating a process of open dialogue with the autonomous communities, the parliamentary groups that make up the House, civil society - since we have negotiated an amendment with the Group of the Plural Left - based on a new model of governance with the unanimous commitment to reach the consensus that education requires and that society requests us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u190	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. Amendments have indeed been tabled. Firstly, Mr Álvarez Sostres has the floor for the Joint Group - three Members will speak. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum to defend my two amendments to the motion tabled by Mrs Sánchez Robles, which relate primarily to the form of final stage tests. I would like to make a few comments on this, not so much because of your intervention which has been - by using a term - dysfunctional with regard to the essence of the motion, but about the essence of your motion. The first thing I have to say as an observation is that the tests - here we should not deceive - are different. The tests - as they are contemplated - are in the sixth of primary orientations, information on mathematical capabilities, philological capabilities, environmental capabilities but have no titling effect. On the other hand, the final stage and baccalaureate tests do have titration effects, they go on trunk matter and are also developed with a homogeneous standard pattern for the entire education system. Evidently, they are used to measure the school system itself. It is important not to mix some evidence with others. By the way, Mrs. Sánchez Robles, they're not invalid. Look, the revalid term refers to a terminal test proper to the 1953 Curriculum and, by the way, the COU was also terminal and no one dared to call it revalid. This is not proof of revalidation, I honestly believe. They are external tests of a terminal nature, but they are neither revalid nor can be used derogatively. In any case, this is a technical issue but it has an important political background. The background is that 17 school systems can be considered to exist in our country. You recognize it yourself when you talk about school systems in Spain. You're confused about all this. If I may, the problem is that in a territorial model such as the autonomous one, the model of educational governance must be changed by the Ministry of Education and by the autonomous communities. The collaboration and educational consensus of these two institutional elements are essential for the development of a rule of this kind. Therefore, having schools is also essential for the principle of school autonomy. In my opinion, in your motion you consider that this House should be involved, but I understand that this House should not be involved - this House has already been involved - as the Autonomous Communities are not involved in their regional parliaments. It is a matter of implementation, management, government and not legislative power. In any case, I try to make some constructive observations far away from those of some communities that rose up at the Sectoral Conference on Education...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u191	Mr. Alvarez Sostres, you have to finish. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: I'm done. That's absolutely wrong. It is not very educational to get up from a collaborating or collaborative meeting. I do not agree and I am quoting the Council of Asturias which was one of the ones that rose up. The external, informative or titling tests have, in my opinion, been the only positive thing of the Lomce, a socialist law suffocated with liberal principles, which brings this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. For the Joint Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 23 April this year the BNG presented a PNL urging the ministry to paralyse the draft royal decree regulating the final evaluation tests of primary education, ESO and baccalaureate, i.e. the disabled and also to open a process of dialogue with the whole educational community and with the autonomous communities. Therefore, although not in its entirety, it coincides in part with this motion by the Basque Group. Ladies and gentlemen, the unrest and strong opposition caused by Lomce did not end on the day that the PP approved it in this House. From that moment on, the problems and the constant conflict that caused their development were evident. The invalids, we warn in their moment and we keep it, contrary to what Mr Álvarez Sostres has just said, for us are one of the most perverse elements of the Lomce because they represent a barrier to the continuation of studies, a measure that responds exclusively to a totally classist and elitist conception of education and that facilitates the exclusion of the most socially disadvantaged from the right to education. Its objective, the objective of these external tests, which we can also call them in this way, is to measure results without taking into account the economic, cultural and family context and circumstances and the shortcomings and needs to achieve those results. These are difficulties that are widened for the student who needs reinforcement and cannot cope with it by paying internships. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, invalids mean the disregard for the professionalism of teachers, as their work is questioned insofar as the result of the continuous evaluation loses value compared to the tests of invalids that condition all the pedagogical and didactic work, adhering to the preparation of the student to overcome the invalid. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, it is the guiding thread of this government's policy. The draft royal decree blatantly invades the powers of the autonomous communities. The preparation and content of the tests is centralized without even facilitating the possibility of evaluating the contents to be fixed. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. In the purest uniformizing style of the Government, this draft royal decree transforms, at best, into something merely secondary or superfluous the culture, history, geography or economy of Galicia. The tests are designed and translated in Madrid without taking into account either the Autonomous Community or the Galician teacher. Like Lomce herself, this royal decree, as it stands, is totally inconceivable for the BNG on the merits and for the forms that cannot be more powerful by the ministry that insists and persists in a modus operandi taxo, lacking dialogue, a lonely path that distances it more and more from the educational community and that, of course, we will not endorse and that is why we will support this motion. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Errekondo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u195	The Government of the People's Party continues its efforts to impose its model of State by attacking with particular virulence the colonized nations such as Euskal Herria, their symbols, their culture, their language and especially their education. Its objective is clear, to carry out the second colonization, as Minister Wert himself confessed, by Spanishizing the students, indeed, from education, using the Lomce as a lethal weapon, as we have denounced a thousand times, an indoctrination, segregation, reactionary, centralizing law that sends thousands of teachers to the street. They dare even if in Álava, Vizcaya, Guipúzcoa or Nafarroa the People's Party is a residual party and whose representation in these upcoming elections will fall to the ground, as you know. Let's go to the motion. We would like to make two assessments with regard to the motion. On the one hand, we are concerned that we forget to demand the repeal of the Lomce as a necessary condition, just as we committed ourselves to the rest of the opposition parties. On the other hand, we believe that it is a mistake to put forward a dialogue at this stage to agree on end-of-primary, secondary or baccalaureate evaluations, while applying Lomce by supporting the third-primary evaluation itself. That is, the implementation of the Lomce is implicitly being supported when it is intended to reach an agreement in part. That is to say, it is at least certainly curious that at this point the PNV calls on the Spanish Government to open a dialogue with the autonomous communities, in our case with the Basque Government, while refusing to listen to the educational community of Euskal Herria, which this week has called for it to stop applying Lomce and not to carry out the evaluation of the third of primary school, before which hundreds of families are proposing a plant so that their children do not come, both in the autonomous community and in Nafarroa. In conclusion, Amaiur has it very clear. On the one hand, the People's Party Government must immediately repeal the Lomce and put aside the development of its decrees and the parties we have committed ourselves to in this Parliament we must be consistent with our decisions and we must act against the law and its decrees both here and in the rest of the institutions. [[Pronounce words in Basque]] The education of our daughters and children was decided at Euskal Herria and the Spanish Government only had to respect it. Your intrusions must be over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u196	Thank you very much, Mr Errekondo. An amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Plural Left and Mr Sixto has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u197	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sánchez Robles said in the past plenary that Mr Wert could not be deprived of closing the curtain without setting fire to the gunpowder tank and sending the consensus ship. In my group, we believe that you are certain that since the ministry you could not deprive yourself of throwing more wood into the fire to ashes our country's public education system, but we disagree that you have ordered the ship of consensus to pick up, because frankly we believe that by a lot of words the ship of consensus never existed. Never has there been the slightest sign of consensus throughout this parliamentary term, that the Minister has reached agreements, beyond his statements in this rostrum. The educational counter-reform was imposed. As you rightly pointed out, they should have been concerned that it had eleven amendments in its entirety, but they did not have the slightest concern, nor did they have any concern that the whole educational community would stand against it. To this imposition, legal by the majority but totalitarian in the forms, there have been another series of impositions in successive decrees, once again endorsed by that majority and rejected also once again in the educational fields. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as we said at the beginning of this parliamentary term to Mr Wert, when one does not believe in democracy in the educational field it is difficult, if not impossible, for it to be put into practice when it comes to legislation. The destructive machinery of the system is put into operation with the implementation of the revalidates. Our children are being subjected to controls and subsequent segregation according to them and schools to a ranch which will force them to abandon a model of education where all capacities could be developed to focus on a purely competitive system; that is, the malots, so called, will be relegated to being part of the cheap labour force, as they have been responsible for devaluing the FP and further cutting budgets to compensate for the difficulties. That is why we reiterate once again from this forum our commitment to repeal the Lomce in the next parliamentary term if, as we hope, the political landscape favours it. As for the motion that you bring us here today, we agree that the processing of the draft royal decree should be suspended and that a process of dialogue should be initiated, although we believe that this process of dialogue should include social organizations, civil society, as we say in our amendment and as we have finally agreed. On this line we had tabled this amendment. With regard to the second point of our amendment, which is finally withdrawn in the compromise, we would have liked to refer to the agreement signed to repeal the Lomce. We therefore thought that it was not time to set up a working group that could, due to the dangers of parliamentary mechanics, delay and end its days without reaching any point. However, in the interest of consensus on the compromise, we have deleted our second point from the amendment and reached an agreement on the first, integrating civil society into the negotiating process. However, I conclude by telling you that we do not believe that there is a negotiating process, we do not believe that the People's Party maintains that will, which, beyond the declaratory practice, does not become a reality. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u198	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. In the course of fixing positions, first of all, for the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u199	I shall speak briefly, Mr President, to say that we are going to support this motion. It seems to us that the content is correct. During the Lomce process, we have already warned the Government that, apart from other fundamental differences we had about the direction of the law, it had a very serious development problem that would create chaos in the education system. Well, unfortunately we were right and this law, by its way of passing, applying and developing, is sowing chaos in the educational system. We are faced with the possibility that some autonomous communities will decide to do evaluation tests and others will not; that some centres will do so and others will be denied. This is the result of an educational model whose fund the People's Party never wants to enter into discussion and also of a renunciation by the State to exercise its competences in the minimum matters left to it. The way to solve these fundamental problems is not to sow chaos in the educational system. That is why we believe that the PNV proposal presented by Mrs Robles is appropriate. Indeed, people who have skills and have the capacity to decide will have to sit at a table. That being said, it is also true that every time we talk about education in this House, the most extraordinary things are said, and very few have anything to do with education. It is not true that the invalids are perverse, there are educational systems of countries that have better results than ours, in addition to countries with much more democratic control of the institutions, which include this type of evaluation systems. The point is to agree on how to do this, to be consistent with the educational model, and to be useful and useful for something. Above all, I insist, do not sow chaos in a system that is already quite chaotic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Barberà has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group is going to support the motion of the Basque Nationalist Party: to suspend the processing of the royal decree that develops the final academic evaluations. Proposing dialogues to build consensus around any aspect of the educational model, to improve it, will always count on our unconditional support. In Catalonia we do apply to the real situation of education the concepts of dialogue, consensus and broad majority, and thanks to this we have the Llei d'Educació de Catalunya. But Mr Wert, during his speech, has already put the limits on his already famous model of dialogue. They know that one of the biggest discrepancies that has caused the Lomce has been the new competitive distribution and the new structure of subjects, now classified in trunks, specific and free autonomous configuration. With his special tone and vocabulary, Mr. Wert disqualified the previous competition distribution, which kept all subjects in the same category and shared the determination of the components of the academic programming of each of the subjects between the State and the autonomous communities. A formula that allowed harmonization, since 65% of the curriculum depended on the state - it harmonized - and the remaining 35% allowed the different autonomous communities to focus on those differential aspects that each territory has and that enrich the educational model. Well, Mr. Wert, neither short nor lazy, describes this model as capricious, which started in a way that he thought was wrong. While he says he is willing to engage in dialogue, he already sets limits: the previous model was capricious. Ladies and gentlemen, have we spent more than thirty years in a capricious education? Wouldn't there be any better way to propose dialogue? In addition, in his intervention, he finally recognized the legal strategy that allowed him to try to homogenize and re-centralize education. From the very beginning of exclusive competence - the issuing and granting of certificates which undoubtedly corresponds to the State - it begins to machine. How can we homogenize education in the state? How from Alcalá Street, 34 can we get to impose what we want students to study throughout the state? And how do we disguise him? Solution: Let's talk about skills, let's talk about external evaluations, let's say this is the new fashion in Europe and that we bring the latest that exists. PISA tests are the perfect alibi. Ladies and gentlemen, this message from the People's Party began to be built in 2012. Do you know that since 2000 PISA competition tests have been carried out in Spain? What a novelty the People's Party brings! Do you know that communities like Catalonia when evaluating skills, from their own budget increase the sample to know more about the real state of education? If the Autonomous Communities do not fear PISA and value it as a valid instrument for external evaluation and which serves them to evaluate and reorient the educational model. If the PISA tests are samples and serve and support all the arguments of Mr. Wert's changes, why do they want to impose external census assessments with academic value to improve the level of education? If they have neither the budget to make them nor the human structure to, in a short space of time, give the academic results and be able to apply the improvements with the necessary technical guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sostres, these tests are definitely revalid. The ongoing evaluation, the most modern in existence, will not prevent the plans of the People's Party, since the final tests will determine the future of the students, since that future resides in the degrees. No, ladies and gentlemen, the aim is not to improve education, the aim is to homogenize education in all territories from state structures and to move to domination, to impose an educational model to strengthen a model of state that is nothing like what we have had so far. They intended to do so without making much noise, but their inability and clumsiness, together with their desire to impose on pride, have caused so much noise that the reform that brought the Lomce will never apply. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to mention that this morning Mr Wert, in comments with journalists, considered that the Spaniard is discriminated against in Catalonia as was the Catalan with Francoism. I guess that's another example of the obsession you have and that we reminded you this morning against Catalan and against the model of linguistic immersion, isn't it? Maybe it was a bad interpretation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, tell your Minister to quickly rectify those views or if not, to appear in the Commission and say what arguments he has used to declare these false claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Barberà. For the Socialist Group, Mr Bedera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u203	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, article 62.3 of the Logse stated that the general evaluation of the education system will be carried out by the National Institute of Quality and Evaluation, and pursuant to this legal mandate, in June 1993, the Royal Decree regulating its organization and operation was adopted. If I thus start my intervention, with this quotation, it is to highlight, to highlight that it was a socialist government that launched the educational evaluation in our country and that created the body responsible for carrying it out, the National Institute of Quality and Evaluation, which exists today and which, of course, has deserved international prestige. The socialists believed in the evaluation and we continue to believe in it, but one thing is to evaluate and another thing very different is to implement a system of revalidated overnight, segregating and useless for the detection of problems or the improvement of learning, but, eye, very effective to exclude the most vulnerable student or to favor through ranquines the centers of urban areas with high purchasing power. Ladies and gentlemen, it is false that the invalids are the common note in the European Union, as Mr Wert repeats. Evaluations are common, but not the revalidated ones proposed by Lomce. In summary: at the end of primary school only Belgium, French-speaking Belgium, has a disability, but Lomce leaves this possibility open when it allows the autonomous communities to foresee the repetition of pupils who suspend it, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is an educational aberration with children aged eleven and twelve. At the end of compulsory secondary school, in nine countries of the European Union the degree is obtained through examinations carried out by the teachers themselves of the centre; in another twelve there is a combination of internal and external examinations; another ten are based only on notes and work carried out throughout the course; only Ireland, only Ireland, grants the secondary degree with an external final test. In other words, the revalidation of compulsory secondary education is an anomaly in the European environment. At the end of the baccalaureate, it is true that final examinations are common, because in many countries they do not exist, they do not have selectivity. But, note, despite this, six countries give the title for continuous evaluation; in three they give two titles, one for final test and one for the joint opinion of the course; in three others the title depends on the work of the course and an internal final test; in ten others the title is issued through a combination of external proof and final examination; only in Ireland and France they give the title after a revalidation such as the one proposed in Lomce. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality in the European Union, even if Minister Wert tries to disguise it or distort it. Paulo Santiago is a senior analyst in the OECD Directorate of Education and Skills, that is, a colleague of Mrs Gomendio in a few days. Well, Paulo Santiago recently presented the OECD's review report on educational evaluation policy and stated that there is no international tendency to implement invalids with consequences for students, but standardized evidence that monitors the system and corrects errors. And he added that ranquins are dangerous because they can cause only that which is evaluated to be imparted. Please note that this expert also did not know that the invalids in Spain are going to do test type. But the voices of the experts, of the educational community, of the faculty, of the AMPA, of the students, of the educational administrations of the autonomous communities, as has been said here, have only recently been valid, as throughout the legislature, asking for more wisdom and dialogue. For that reason, ladies and gentlemen, five autonomous communities, representing 52% of the state education system, left the last sectoral conference, tired of being treated, Mr Wert - I am glad you are here - like the former civil governors, who came to Madrid to receive slogans and then reproduced them in their provinces. That's what's happening. Today the Basque Group, by the way with an institutional sense that the Government lacks, proposes a motion to make a final attempt to reach a broad agreement before adopting the actual decree regulating invalids. They have spoken to the minister who, as many times, offers a dialogue in this House while carrying out a burning land policy in the State Official Gazette. The Socialist Group is not going to stay. That is why my group is going to support this motion, even though I know that Mr. Wert's extended hand is just one more episode of ministerial posture. We will support it knowing that the government will shut up for an answer because it is one thing to preach and another to give wheat. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u204	Thank you very much, Mr Bedera. For the People's Group, Mrs Moneo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening carefully to the proposer of the motion and to the successive speakers, I have no less to regret once again the particular, partisan interests and at this point in time what doubts it is that the electoralists behind this initiative and the speeches of their lords; interests, on the other hand, far removed from the general interest. Let me tell you that this is neither a motion to reflect nor to collaborate nor to contribute, nor even to try to improve one of the most relevant and most impactful measures in educational reform such as evaluations. Again, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of using the parliamentary procedure to achieve what neither law nor parliamentary arithmetic has allowed them: to paralyse the Lomce. We are faced with a new staging that gives continuity to that commitment that some of your ladies and gentlemen assumed months ago in order to paralyse the Organic Law of improving the quality of education at the slightest opportunity - they said here and signed it out of here -, disregarding the parliamentary process and getting involved in a supposed lack of dialogue that simply hid before and continues to do so now the true nature of their interests: either mine or nothing. They have done so before and they do so today, also responding to different interests: some, because they have a fear worthy of analysis that the existence of an educational model of very different success than they have been defending for years; others, because in this of education, as in other matters, they would snuff out the constitutional principles; and others, because they intend to ignore the competitive order established by the Constitution and the different statutes of autonomy, trying to set up an isolated educational model, where it does not matter that we are evaluated, provided that this is done by an international body such as the OECD and not by a law resulting from the sovereignty that emanates from this House, of which, by the way, you, ladies and gentlemen, are part. Therefore, let's get rid of the gap, talk about education and explain with meridian clarity, first to the families, what is wrong with them having reliable and accurate information about the situation of their children, of the rest of the students and also of the other centers, and whether these centers also meet the expectations they have placed when choosing that educational center and not another one. Let us also tell the educational institutions themselves that the information that can be provided by the evaluations will enable them to verify the result of the autonomy granted to them by this law. Let us explain to the teachers, the most appreciated guides of the students, that with the evaluations they will have an effective instrument to correct the possible deficiencies of the students and also of the system, and that this will be able to lead them towards success. We must also explain this to the Administration itself, to which the information from the evaluations will enable it to act in those centres that do not meet the minimum requirements required, but will also be able to detect those areas that, due to their particular difficulty, will need preferential action plans. Let us tell society as a whole, ladies and gentlemen, that for the first time there is an opportunity for families, pupils and teachers to have equal opportunities in access to quality education. Can you really claim that this is bad for the system and bad for the students? The reality is that the abandonment of the functions of some governments, on the one hand, and ideological fundamentalism, on the other, have made our education system negate for years one of the most valued and effective measures in the search for quality education; a measure adopted by those countries that have achieved a marked improvement in the results: twenty-four out of the thirty-four OECD countries have an external and standardized test; seventeen countries in Europe have this test. But it is that both PISA and other international reports point out that those countries that have external and standardized tests improve their performance 16 points, for example. This means that if Spain gets to have this test we would be on average in the OECD countries, something that some of its lordships and governments have stolen from the Spanish education system. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you for a little rigour and seriousness in view of one of the most important changes to the education system. Mrs Sánchez Robles, I will not deny you the good results of education in the Basque Country, but you will recognize me that they still have to improve. Other humble communities overcome them in PISA: Castile and León surpasses them in mathematics; Madrid and Galicia surpass them in science, also La Rioja, and in reading they surpass Madrid again and Castile and León; you are the seventh. So stop living in isolation. If they strive to get up from the negotiating tables and ignore the application of a law of compulsory compliance, they will turn education in their autonomous community into a reduction of resistance and paralysis in the face of the wave of modernity, quality and excellence that will prevail in the rest of the system. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs Moneo. Mrs Sánchez Robles, although you have already said so, for official purposes I ask you what you are doing with the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u207	President, we've managed a transactional. I'd appreciate it if you would give me a minute because I think it's one of the few that calls me right in the House and, as you know, the name is the most important thing a person has. My name is Sanchez Robles, not Robles. I say this because, starting with the Minister and ending with some of the Members of this House, they call me by a name other than my own.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u208	That minute you totally deserved it. I want everyone to remember, it's Sanchez Robles. The president always calls him Sanchez Robles, that's for sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u209	We now turn to the validation of Royal Decree-Law 5/2015, of 30 April, of urgent measures regarding the marketing of the rights to exploit audiovisual content of professional football competitions. To present this royal decree-law, the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to appear before the plenary of this House to request from it the validation of the Royal Decree-Law of urgent measures relating to the marketing of audiovisual rights in professional football competitions. [[The lady]] In the same way as the intervention, I would like to say that it is the wish of the Government, and I obviously extend it to the groups of the House, that this royal decree-law should be the subject of the widest possible consensus in this House and beyond. I will frame the issue very briefly in its social and economic context. I shall begin by pointing out that both amateur and professional football are phenomena of extraordinary social, economic and media relevance in this country, as your ladies and gentlemen know. By brushing the quantitative dimensions of this importance, it is enough to say that the licenses of federated footballers amount to about one million; according to the latest data there are 856,000, in turn grouped into 21,500 federated clubs, and account for 25% of all sports licenses in the country. From the point of view of professional football and its potential as a sporting phenomenon, in these days when we are experiencing the final stages of European club competitions, it would be enough to point out that in the past year, in the competition corresponding to 2013-2014, two of the four semifinalists, the two finalists, obviously also the Champions League champion, were Spanish clubs. That situation, as far as the main club competition is concerned, is also repeated now as regards semifinalists, and hopefully also as regards finalists after this afternoon. From that point of view, it is Europe's first sports power. The second most relevant competition at the club level, the Europa League, also last year had a Spanish champion and, in the competition of the 2014-2015 season we met again with a Spanish club on the way to the final. Apart from this, of course, are the successes of the Spanish Selection that are in everyone's mind. Professional football is therefore an element of singular importance, as I said, not only sports, but also social and economic. The part to which this royal decree-law refers, which is that of the marketing of audiovisual rights, is of extraordinary economic importance, since these audiovisual rights, even in a situation that, as I will describe, does not allow to exhaust all the economic potentials that it could have, comes to represent a very high proportion of the income of professional clubs: between 17%, which is the smallest proportion - in clubs with higher budgets - up to no more than 90% of the income obtained by those clubs. In this context, the regulation, through this royal decree-law of the commercialization of the audiovisual rights of the national competitions, has as objective scope of application the two professional leagues, that is, the leagues of First and Second Division, and the competitions of national scope organized by the Royal Spanish Football Federation, that is, the Cup of his majesty the king and the Super Cup. And as for the type of rights that are regulated, it covers any type of issue, i.e. live or deferred emissions, full or summary emissions, open or coded emissions and free emissions or payment emissions. It does not include this object of treatment - which is not amended in a different regulation - the treatment of radio broadcasts which, as you know, are subject to compensation for the costs that these broadcasts entail for clubs and which are therefore basically under the umbrella of the right to information. With regard to temporary delimitation, commercialization is provided for in the Royal Decree-Law in blocks of three years, i.e. marketing rights cannot last more than three years and, the markets on which they are projected are all markets, both the domestic and international markets in their broadest scope. Why regulation? As you know, up to now the treatment of these audiovisual rights has been based, from a conceptual point of view, on the so-called right of sand with opposition, that is, it was understood that the right was the club in whose premises the element of competition the party was dealing with with with the right of opposition to that right of the club which opposed it, which is the most classical form, and it was almost necessary to speak in terms, at least of the great competitions of the countries where it is most important in these competitions, of the most archaic regime that applies. Indeed, more than this system is this lack of a system, which presents a high number of inefficiencies and poses a high number of problems. In the minds of all your ladies and gentlemen, there are those who have been calling themselves football wars, precisely in terms of different types of litigation and discrepancies in the management of the marketing of these audiovisual rights. What are the reasons for this inefficiency or the problems posed by the system? Firstly, a breakdown of the offer. In the face of a concentrated demand from operators seeking to market these rights, this deterioration in supply, which meant a certain limitation in the collection of resources in national markets, brought with it, above all, a very important limitation of profitability in international markets. Let me give you some very expressive figures on what these limitations entailed. I made a reference a few minutes ago to the power of Spanish clubs in these European competitions, and that power is nothing more than a reflection of the importance of national competition itself. In this context, please bear in mind that with data from the last season 2013-2014, the resources brought together through the sale of audiovisual rights over national competitions were, in the case of Spain, 766 million euros compared to 1,875 million euros brought together by the British competitions, by the Premier League and the Second Division and even 846 million obtained by the Italian Series A which has an appeal, let's say measurable through other metrics, much lower than that of the Spanish competition. There is also a second dimension of inefficiency in this deregulated system which refers to the income imbalance between the different competitors, and which not only has the obvious implication that results from an excessive imbalance from the point of view of the economic survival of the actors themselves, but also has a considerable implication, from a point of view that we could consider strictly sporting, that is, from the competitive balance that must be sought. I referred earlier to the part of the revenue that television rights represent, and I said that in the case of clubs that have less capacity to generate revenue by other channels, they account for 90% of that revenue. But that being the case, it is even more striking that so far, as these revenues were distributed, two clubs that received a larger proportion of them had 33 % of all the revenues generated by the system and, four clubs, 45 % of that total revenue. This undoubtedly has an impact not only, as I say, on the economic balance of the clubs - with the consequences that this has so much with regard to the debts to Finance and Social Security - but also with the very viability of the sports anonymous societies or the clubs basically sports anonymous societies. Thirdly, I have pointed out earlier, this has historically led to a very high degree of conflict over the content of contracts for the assignment of rights. They were individual contracts which established clubs with different operators or with different intermediaries in the operation, which gave rise to a high level of litigation, which in some cases led to spectators not being able to access these broadcasts, these audiovisual rights, which made Spain the only exception in the context of those countries where professional football competitions are most important, and I am referring to England, within the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Italy. Only in Spain, so far, these audiovisual rights were not the subject of centralized marketing. In turn, this centralized marketing, in the case of France and Italy, has been dealt with by regulation; and in the case of Germany and England, by agreement between the parties. What are the objectives of this royal decree-law? However, without the numbering order assuming priority over its importance, the objectives are, first of all, the most obvious, that of ordering the management, operation and control to increase the performance of the system. Secondly, to ensure the viability of the institutions and the competitive balance. Thirdly - and I will insist on this later - we are strongly promoting support for amateur sport. Fourthly, to encourage the development and consolidation of audiovisual markets which, despite having started in Spain with remarkable vigor, precisely because of the lack of adequate discipline in the marketing of these audiovisual rights, have had limited development in Spain - I am naturally referring to pay television -. And also, because it is the function of the Government to promote conditions for the satisfaction of debts and obligations to Finance and Social Security to be met in the best possible way, to improve the economic and financial control mechanisms of clubs and sports companies, which entails a greater guarantee that the revenues of the State Tax Administration Agency and of course the Treasury of Social Security will be aligned. In short, we are going to seek a regularisation and a greater economic balance in professional football, which, like some of the figures I referred to a few minutes ago before your ladies and gentlemen, shows that it is a sector of very considerable economic importance. Finally, from the point of view of European legislation, the system of exploiting the summaries of competitions must be aligned. I shall refer briefly below, ladies and gentlemen, to the regulation adopted by the Royal Decree-Law. From the point of view of ownership, the matter which has been the subject of some kind of confusion on the part of the public as to who it is, I would like to say that it is based on the classic concept of ownership of these rights. A concept that has not been changed in the successive occasions when it has been the subject of specific regulations, neither in the Sports Act of 1990 nor in 1997, has always remained the title and, on the other hand, it has always been operated under the assumption of the ownership of the participating clubs and, indeed, it is the same thing that is done in this royal decree-law, but - this is the new element - understanding that this title of the clubs in order to be able to produce this commercialization, in the sense that the norm establishes it, has to appear the compulsory assignment to the organizing entities of each of the competitions of these limited marketing powers - that is to say - to the aspects that are the own of this regulation, which are those that refer to what happens in the perimeter of the field of play. Therefore, what is beyond that scope logically remains as a right of ownership of each of the clubs. This means that the condition of participation in professional football leagues implies that the participating clubs accept the assignment of that title with regard to the marketing of their audiovisual rights to the benefit of the organizing entity, in this case the National League of Professional Football. It also means that the teams participating in the competitions organized by the Royal Spanish Football Federation, that is, the Cup of His Majesty the King and the Super Cup of Spain also have, as a condition for their participation in this competition, to assign these rights to that federation. Marketing is carried out by establishing a number of general conditions aimed at meeting cleaning, transparency and competition requirements in the way it is carried out and is carried out under two different modalities: exclusive marketing and non-exclusive marketing. It is a question of narrowing down the three-year space to which I referred earlier, and with a configuration through packages of a system in which a public, transparent, competitive and non-discriminatory tender allows such marketing in the most efficient terms. A number of specific rules are added to the Royal Decree-Law to avoid over-concentration, non-competitive concentration, and therefore limit the number of packages to which a bidder can access whether an operator or not. In addition to this exclusive marketing regime, there is also a non-exclusive marketing regime in which more than one or all those wishing to aspire to these rights can participate. Within the standard, it is very important to establish the criteria for the allocation of the quantities obtained. By summarizing a rather complex treatment of the issue in the Royal Decree-Law, I would point out that as far as the division between the First and Second Divisions is concerned, the former will obtain 90% of that income and the latter 10%. How are those revenues distributed between the First and Second Divisions? 50 % of the revenue corresponding to each of the two competitions in the case of the First Division and 70 % in the case of the Second Division - at least 70 % in the case of the second - shall be shared equally among all participants. The remainder, 50 % in the case of the First Division and not more than 30 % in the case of the second, shall be distributed according to two criteria. One, that of the sporting results, which in the case of the First Division will refer to the previous five seasons and, in the case of the Second Division, given the lower stability in the presence of sports clubs and public limited companies participating in the first Division, will only cover the last season and will be taken into account the classification they have obtained in the respective competition. The rest of the variable part of the distribution of these revenues will take into account the social impact of each of the participants who in turn will consider the collection in box office of the stadiums of the clubs, the generation of resources of all kinds, merchandising, transmissions, etc. And what is the purpose of these distribution criteria? That in the face of a current situation where the disproportion between clubs receiving larger amounts and those receiving smaller amounts is the highest of all European leagues, we are moving towards a system in which initially the ratio between clubs receiving more and those receiving less is 4.5 to 1 - we are always talking about the First Division - but to the extent that the revenues obtained by this marketing exceed EUR 1 billion and until they reach EUR 1.5 billion, this ratio will be progressively reduced in such a way that, once those revenues are reached of EUR 1.5 billion, the ratio between the highest and the lowest is 3.5 times to 1. In the meantime, for the next six seasons, a transitional formula will be agreed according to which all clubs will have to perceive at least the amounts they have received in this last season. For the Cup and the Super Cup it will be the Royal Spanish Football Federation that does so, since it is the one who, as far as the end of the Cup is concerned, will obtain all the revenues and distribution criteria, and a formula is provided for it to be the organizer of the competition, that is, the Royal Spanish Football Federation, it will be the one that chooses to give the management to the league, in which case it is guaranteed the greater of two quantities or 1 % of the total of all rights or a closed amount, if it is less than 1 %, 10 million euros. Of course, this refers to the stages prior to the end of the Cup and Super Cup and all revenues correspond to the federation. On this basis of income distribution, it is important how the Royal Decree-Law establishes a number of obligations of beneficiaries to distribute a significant part of these income for the benefit of certain social functions. The most important of these is the 3.5% that has to be committed to a compensation fund, which has been called the Downset Compensation Fund, so that those clubs that lose the category, that is, those that move from First Division to Second Division and those that move from Second Division to Second B, can face the economic imbalance that this loss of the category entails, and there is no repetition of the case that we have so often seen that the loss of the category ends, in the medium and even in the short term, with the disappearance of the club in question. There is a 1% that must be assigned to the Professional Football League for the international promotion of our competitions. This is particularly important because what basically explains the lag in the ability to generate income from our professional football, through the marketing of audiovisual rights in relation to other competitions, is that the international sale of those rights so far has had a very limited capacity. It is about getting that international sale which, as I say, has been very limited so far, I do not say that it achieves what is achieved by the Premier League of England, which is the first, but rather that it comes close to what seems to us to be a rational objective of obtaining revenue from that international sale, which would be around 400 or 500 million euros. 1% has to be given to the Spanish Football Federation for promotion of amateur football, and this also with a minimum guarantee of 10 million for this attention. Finally, there is 1.5 % administered through the Higher Sports Council for Solidarity, from the point of view of support for high-level non-professional sport, job placement of professionals, support for women's football, support for basic football, support for professional associations of football unions, etc. As far as the expected impacts of this standard are concerned, as I have pointed out, the aim is to bring the marketing of audiovisual rights in our competitions closer to the economic potential they can have. We have set reasonable short-term targets of EUR 1 billion, from which, as I said a moment ago, EUR 400 or 500 million must be obtained from the international marketing of these competitions. The aim is also to improve competition and the development of television markets. An important aspect of the rule on which I would like to draw the attention of your honourable Members is that it is envisaged that in the marketing that is carried out, through pay television, it is necessary to make available to all operators on fair terms basic rights of image, transmission, so that the development of pay television that has to do with this better and safer discipline of the marketing of rights benefits all operators. Moreover, it is very important, and I would like to stress this, to the extent that a rule of these characteristics has to improve the economic and financial control of competitions. In line with the International Financial Fair Play provisions of the year 2010 and the regulation of economic control of sports clubs and public limited companies, launched following an agreement between the Higher Sports Council and the Professional Football League in April 2012, changes are made to the Sports Act that strengthen the financial control of public limited companies. In short, they are aimed at ensuring a serious use of economic resources by these companies to safeguard situations such as the current ones, in which high debts to the Public Finance and Social Security entail a risk of disappearance in any event where there are an excessive number of entities in a competitive position with creditors. It also has a positive gender impact as resources are devoted to the promotion of women's football. It has a positive budgetary impact, as the resources to be managed by the Higher Sports Council will allow for the inclusion of high-level athletes in the special scheme of self-employed workers and that 0.5% devoted to the attention of non-aficiency football, to the support of football unions, etc., also has a positive budgetary implication, since so far these were resources that were obtained from the State's General Budgets. In short, it is a matter of simultaneously providing not only greater economic returns that will improve competition and also improve the possibilities for the operation of these clubs, but also of attending to a number of social services such as those I have described in this intervention. The reason for the extraordinary and urgent need of this rule has two fundamental dimensions: the first of them, as you know perfectly well, is that all the interested parties in the matter have repeatedly asked the Government to enact this rule and that is the cause, and that is the second reason, which has to do with urgency, with the fact that after the agreement that was signed for three seasons in the summer of 2012, this season that contract ends and most clubs do not want to continue to maintain individual contracts of the kind that have been made, they understand that there is a situation of insecurity, that situation of insecurity is particularly harmful to enhance the international sale in the sense to which I have referred. For this reason, the whole football sector, apart from the fact that there may be some interests that are not fully satisfied with the content of the rules, are pushing to use this exceptional way of the decree-law. In conclusion, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Government has the determined purpose, once this rule has been validated, of facilitating a frank dialogue with those actors who express some major discrepancies with the content of this rule, although in many cases these discrepancies do not actually have so much to do with the content of the rule as with other outstanding issues in other normative frameworks and even fundamentally in the conventional framework, in the regulation that, on the one hand, the collective agreement, and on the other hand, the convention currently in force between the Professional Football League and the Spanish Football Federation, and that this spirit of dialogue and overcoming these difficulties will put it into practice outside the validation of this actual decree-law for which I call for the support of the Chamber groups. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u211	Thank you, Minister. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mrs Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u212	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the dust that has been lifted by this royal decree gives an idea of the economic and business magnitudes that can be talked about. Professional football, that of the big ones, has long since ceased to be a sport to become, at best, a sport show, but above all in a big business where there are big interests at stake, never better said, and where no one wants to lose their privileges. What seems clear in this totum of alleged grievances is that the Higher Sports Council - and ultimately you, Minister - has acted as usual. For example, the common complaint of all parties is that it has not been dialogued and everyone feels alone. The criteria for the distribution of revenue from the sale of the audiovisual rights of the First and Second Division clubs, in our view, will lead to the rich, with the cooperation of the Government, being even richer and more powerful and to the widening of the differences between them and the rest, which in practice will increase the inequalities between categories. Article 5 of the Royal Decree establishes these criteria for the distribution of income between the First and Second Divisions in a ratio of 90/10. Only by way of example, Minister, will I tell you that in France 65% is allocated to first-rate clubs and 35% to second-rate clubs, which, without going into detail, seems to be a more proportionate distribution and that, above all, it can contribute more to solving the problems of non-payment that professionals may face. On the other hand, once the revenues obtained from marketing have been distributed, Article 6 sets out the mandatory contributions to be made by each entity. Here, too, in our view, the involvement and effort of clubs remain insufficient. Although it is a small step forward in relation to the current situation, we understand that objectives such as the development of amateur football or the contribution to the rest of the sport through the contribution to the Higher Sports Council are far from being met. In short, there is also, through this royal decree, a real stake in football and basic sport in general, which is precisely the one who is most in need of resources, action and political will for its impetus and promotion. Another aspect that we understand more than questionable is that contained in article 7 of the royal decree. Paragraph 1 of this Article provides for the establishment of a monitoring body for the management of audiovisual rights. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is no need to be a great deal of understanding in this matter to see that this control body is in the hands of the two leading Spanish football clubs and the president of the League of Professional Football, who will also be the one who will clear the possible draws in the votes. These three members are permanent; the rest - two more first and one second - complete the organ and a priori do not seem to have more function than the merely decorative. They will understand that if the control of the management of audiovisual rights will always correspond to the two clubs, which receive much more revenue than the rest for this purpose, and the quality vote to the president of the league, it does not seem to be a very fair or transparent body. I would also like to reflect and set out our position on the controversy that arose in parallel with this royal decree and derived from the tax treatment of footballers' image rights. The BNG has always advocated progress in tax inspection in order to effectively fight avoidance, evasion and tax fraud, especially between high assets and capital income. But, ladies and gentlemen, what we are defending is a global plan and not just specific actions in an election campaign with media objectives, where once the spotlights have been turned off everything remains the same. At this point, and at a time when the social majority of the Spanish state has suffered a lot, it is not acceptable that the income of elite athletes always end up in other countries or tax here as societies in which the partner is the footballer himself, paying less taxes and benefiting from formulas that unfortunately continue to be covered by the current legislation. Nor is it acceptable, ladies and gentlemen, that the debts of the clubs - especially those that are larger, richer and powerful - with the Public Finance and Social Security remain billionaire. Here, Minister, let me tell you that the Government has not taken sufficient measures to put an end to a situation - compared to that of any company, even more so if it is a small or medium-sized company - which is absolutely scandalous and discriminatory. We conclude, Madam President, by referring, beyond this royal decree, to the sport policy in general of this Government. That so insistently promised sport law is still pending.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u213	Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u214	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. ... and there is also a ban that is anachronistic and that we cannot understand, which is the prohibition that the selections of the different territories can participate in international competitions. Minister, there's a lot of work to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u215	For the same group, Mr Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u216	Mr. Wert, you have to be a very bad person, very fanatical. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] You're an ignorant, an ignorant. You're an ignorant man. [[Applauds]] It cannot offend thousands of people who were beaten, beaten, for speaking Catalan during the Francoism. You can't match...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u217	Mr. Tardà, Mr. Tardà, just a moment. Don't change. Mr. Tardà! [[Mr. Tardà i Coma: Whoever alters this gentleman, alters coexistence]] Mr Tardà, we are in the national Parliament. [[Mr Tardà i Coma: Indeed]] You have used for quite some time issues that have nothing to do with the subject before us. Go back to the subject. And since I am convinced that the minister has understood you in Catalan because he speaks Catalan, I do not but he does, there is no problem. But go back to the subject that, if I'm not mistaken, it's something related to sport and you're not exactly talking about sport. [[The Lord]] Mr. Tardà, get back to it, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u218	It's businesslike of you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u219	Mr. Tardà, it's over. Your personal indignation cannot turn you into personal offenses to any member of this House, or to any member of the Government. You take those words off. [[Mr. Tardà i Coma: It's not a...]] Mr. Tardà, I don't know if you know your words aren't picked up because I took his voice. I took it away because I'm talking. Please, let's do things right. [[Mr. Tardà i Coma: What are you laughing at, Mr. Wert?]] Mr. Tardà, it's all right. [[Mr. Tardà i Coma: We can't...]] Mr. Tardà. [[Mr Sixto Iglesias pronounces words that are not perceived]] Mr. Sixto, please, it's all right. [[Mr. Tardà i Coma: You are a...]] Mr. Tardà, leave the rostrum, go to your seat. The words you have spilled are not collected because I have removed your voice. I'm sorry, Mr. Tardà, use a more presentable language. [[Protests]] Mr. Tardà, I call you to order. For the second time, the third time, you leave the plenary. [[Mr. Coscubiela Conesa: When these things happen.-Mrs.Vazquez Blanco: Shut up that you weren't there!]] Mr. Coscubala, shut up, this isn't going with you. [[Mr. Tardà i Coma: Affected thousands of people beaten for forty years]] Mr. Coscubala, Mr. Tardà, keep quiet. [[Mr. Coscubiela Conesa: The children of those who put us in jail for speaking Catalan above say this]] Mr. Coscubala, it's all right. I understand that he likes the protagonism a lot, but it's not his time. [[Mr. Coscubiela Conesa: I don't like being insulted]] Mr Coscubiela, the matter is over. It's over. [[Applauds]] We are in the national Parliament, we are in the Spanish Parliament. Please don't offend people. It is well enough of the moral priorities of certain people in this house. That's it! Next time you leave the room. It's over. [[Mr Coscubiela Conesa utters words that are not perceived]] Do whatever you like, go to lunch if it's okay with you, which is what you're doing and it's okay with me, or stay, do whatever you want, you're in your right. [[Mr. Coscubiela Conesa: Now I'm staying]] Let's go to the debate, what is being discussed here, which is a royal decree-law. If you want something related to the Minister of Education, ask for your appearance and you will have the debates that you consider appropriate, but under these conditions, this is not a debate and this is the Parliament of the word, not of the offence or of the screams. We continue the debate, I call on the representative of the Basque Group, PNV, Mrs Sánchez Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u220	Mr Tardà, Mr Coscubiela, do not worry because, whatever it takes and despite whomever it takes, we will continue to live and feel in Basque and Catalan. [[Applauds]] That said, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to defend the position of the Basque Group in the face of the promulgation of Royal Decree-Law 5/2015 of 30 April 2015 of urgent measures concerning the marketing of the rights to exploit audiovisual content of professional football competitions. I'll go straight to the point. We do not argue that the stake in the centralised sale of professional football audiovisual rights is logical and consistent with the prevailing trend in European football and most major sporting events. In this sense, we believe that the forecasts contained in the royal decree-law that is brought today for its validation by this House represent a clear advance in some aspects such as the granting of guarantees to the Tax Agency and the General Treasury of Social Security for the collection of debts, the inclusion of solidarity mechanisms with other high-performance athletes, the support to athletes competing in international events, the support to entities participating in non-professional categories of football - you have cited some such as women's football and the Second Division of the league championship or the support to amateur football practice - but it must be meridically clear that it contains other elements with which we do not agree at all. I'll quote some of them. First, the composition and functioning - already referred to here - of the control body insofar as it intends to perpetuate Real Madrid and Football Club Barcelona and that, together with the president of the League of Professional Football, would always have the power to decide since they hold the majority and in addition the president of the League of Professional Football holds the vote of quality. Secondly, the possibility of early termination of existing audiovisual contracts, which is provided for in the first additional provision. Thirdly, the limitation of the powers of the Royal Spanish Football Federation for the promotion of amateur football, since the percentage allocated to the lower categories is allocated directly without intervention of the Royal Spanish Football Federation or the fact that they have not taken into account the interests of AFE footballers, coaches or referees, simply and simply because they have not been given a voice in the drafting procedure. Furthermore, Minister, they have lost a golden opportunity to regulate issues as important as the need to ensure the financial balance of clubs and to preserve equity, equality and fair balance in competition. Minister, just like what I'm going to tell you now, you can understand me better. With the current regulation and saving the preference in the collection of debts by public administrations, many of the clubs that have accredited a ruinous management will be able to continue to be indebted to the ears and exercising dishonorable competition for those other clubs that have accredited a diligent economic-financial management, or what is the same, Minister, they continue to give nature letters to situations of sporting mobbing to the extent that they do not tackle them. I'm wrong anyway, convince me. I'm going to ask you a direct question. The case I'm going to ask you about is real. Does it seem legitimate to you that a club that accredits a debt of EUR 600 million can use, for example, a greater indebtedness providing as a guarantee the income coming from the sale of audiovisual rights and thus continue to fatten the balance of its debts to make multi-million-dollar registrations to the detriment of other clubs that, for example the Athletic, the Eibar and the Real, keep their accounts sound? I don't think so. This is also true of clubs that have managed responsibly and transparently, placing them in a situation of clear competitive disadvantage. I personally find it outrageous and, so I can know from other fans and football fans like me, to them too. Based on our position on the substance of the rule, we protested head-on against its processing as a royal decree-law for the reasons I will set out below. It is an incontrovertible fact that the actual decree that is brought to validation today has been drafted without the knowledge of the vast majority of the parties concerned. Its concrete content was unknown to almost all the clubs - and I say the concrete, the literal; another thing is that they have heard or been told questions - and sports anonymous societies, for members of the Professional Football League, as well as for the Spanish Real Federation of Football, for the Association of Spanish Footballers and for the rest of the professional football agents, who only became aware of the decree on the day of its publication in the BOE on May 1, 2015. In addition, Minister, I really tell you, it is exasperating the recurrent and abusive recurrence that the People's Government makes of Article 149.1 of the Spanish Constitution, always bearing a competitive, generic title, which says: establishing the bases and coordination of the overall planning of economic activity. Yes, but why is it being misused? In order to annihilate the exclusive competence of the Basque Autonomous Community and other autonomous communities of the State with regard to sport, as recognized in its Statutes of Autonomy and, therefore, in the block of constitutionality. De facto they are deprived of the legitimate and constitutional participation - as I said - in making decisions such as those that this royal decree-law regulates. Anyway, more of the same. Having said that, if so relevant are the reasons that have led them to the promulgation of this royal decree and given that they intend to intervene in the market of television rights deriving from football, do you not sincerely consider it necessary that this regulation be made by law whenever it affects - and I would ask you to hear me - rights as relevant as the right to image - article 18 of the Spanish Constitution - freedom of the press and communications - article 20 of the Spanish Constitution - right of ownership - article 33 of the Spanish Constitution - or freedom of enterprise - article 38 of the Spanish Constitution - among others? What a contradiction, Minister. It is, in some ways, a curious way of squeezing and twisting the Constitution to do and undo as you want. The truth is that I suppose that in his duet he will argue that the clubs have asked him - we have already been able to read it in the press - the League of Football and bibibaba. Frankly, his ministry has nothing in nature to listen to but when they are interested, that is, never, because if we refer to Lomce, scholarships, universities, never throughout this legislature, except on this occasion, the opinion of the sector has been heard. On the other hand, regulation by royal decree - and you know it well, there are repeated judgments of the Constitutional Court - can only be done on grounds of urgency, which are not justified in the present case. They are not because the individualized sale of rights has been taking place for twenty years, Minister, and it is being done, bad than good, fifteen to be more accurate. [[The Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, Wert Ortega, delivers words that are not perceived]] Initially it was a more nimious thing, yes, with the consent of all involved and there has been no change in the circumstances that serves to justify the sudden urgency, this regulatory rage and computer. I would remind you that the report drawn up by the subcommittee on professional sport, which is the starting point of this royal decree-law, was published in May 2010, that is, five years ago. In addition, there is not enough consensus among the actors involved in the professional football market, Liga de Fútbol, Real Federación Española, AFE, clubs, etc., regarding the content of the new regulation, so the promulgation via royal decree-law has resulted in the current conflict situation. I will give you some advice, I sincerely believe that it would be very convenient and practical, in addition to respecting democratic principles, to open a previous debate - which has never occurred - in which the actors affected by the measures and the public, the representatives, can intervene. In short, the Basque Group is not in favour of this legislation by decree - you already know it - and elaborated, moreover, without having the recipients of the norm and behind the backs of society. Therefore, in our view, the proper formal procedure for the enactment of the new legislation must be the proper one of a bill, which, following the timely parliamentary debate in which the opinion of all the agents involved can be heard, finally results in the enactment of a law that facilitates consensus, if not of all professional football, which will be complicated, but at least of a majority of it. Minister, you can't go in like an elephant in a junkyard to intervene in a market of its relevance. And that's what you've done. I do not know if you realize that all your problems always come from the hand of a lack of consensus. That's where you always start to suffer. You have at this moment on your shoulders a strike that I dare you that will bring nothing but harm to your ministry, your government and your party, the People's Party. Honestly, in Spain you can live without light and without water, but not without football. It's just a warning. That is why I find it very unwise to vote against, as they have announced, your parliamentary group, the People's Group, that this royal decree is being used as a bill. In the meantime, we will continue to advocate for dialogue and reserve the capacity to make constructive proposals in the field of sports, so I am already telling you that, given the refusal to proceed as a bill, we will abstain in the vote on the royal decree-law and of course we will vote in favour of it being dealt with as it is and as a matter of this relevance it deserves. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Sánchez Robles. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. There is currently a 1990 law that is clearly out of date. The current PP Government had committed itself to drafting new legislation as soon as it arrived at the Government. They have had four years to discuss this situation, to talk and listen to all the actors who are part of the sport sector. However, they now bring, when the legislature is finalizing, a real decree by the way of urgency. That is what you have now agreed on from this compromise, which is now urgent, now. It is a real decree that steals the debate, which shields the PP proposal and also listens only to a part of the sector, so that none of the political groups in the House can improve it through amendments. It should be noted that an amendment or updating of legislation after twenty-five years would have to lead to an improvement of the law, of the sector and of all the actors involved, but this is not the case. For example, once again women's sport is obvious, which is relegated to a sort of second division B. Is that how women, especially sportswomen, see the government? What about equality and parity? Doesn't it apply in sport or is it only done when they generate enough screen fees and revenues? And what about the historical debts of the football clubs with Hacienda? This recognised debt must be remedied. While people are waiting for the Treasury, every year football clubs receive a special treatment that citizens already want for themselves. On the other hand, it is certainly striking how we find ourselves here in public law by legislating on private law - yes, professional football clubs are entities of private law - in theory because some of the actors involved have not been able to reach any agreement. If we paid the same attention to sport in general as to football, another cock would sing to us; but no. Not all sport is football or all football - for the distribution that is fixed here - is Real Madrid and Barça. Bread and football, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister, we have a lot of doubts about everything that has been said. That is why we ask the Government to reconsider it, to renew the process and to draft the actual decree that we are being brought to this House today, which would give the opportunity for the necessary debate and consultation between all the actors involved in sport and the various political groups in order to improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u223	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Mr Wert, you have started your speech just as you have concluded it, calling for consensus and dialogue. I ask you directly: does that mean that the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of the processing as a bill of this royal decree-law? [[Pause]] For what is in the 'Diary of Sessions': the Minister's face of poker, the Cardinal's face of poker, the People's Parliamentary Group's face of poker. Ergo, your call to consensus is nothing but a hollow call, a siren song for our ships, like Ulises, to crash into their reefs. However, you, Mr Wert, more than like a mermaid sometimes behaves like a chimera, releasing genuine gaznidos that attack intelligence, I say this to you because of the episode we have just had in this House. From my parliamentary group, the first thing we would like to do about this royal decree-law - which we already see is that it is not going to be treated as a bill, even though it is one of the issues that we all demand from all the groups in the House - is to analyse the general framework in which you draw this royal decree-law; a framework in which, first, we must take into account the issue of football debts, the interest that the Minister of Finance has in being able to increase the collection of everything that is pending from football clubs. It is, or at least has been attempted by the management of the Higher Sports Council, a reduction of that debt which has been historic by the clubs, which is one of the elements to be taken into account in this regulation. Secondly, there is indeed an obsolete model, which we do not share with the countries in our environment, in the management of allowances, a model in which everyone sells it for their part. It is interesting, necessary and shared by the vast majority of the world of football to go towards a centralized management model, a model comparable to that of the countries of our environment, and that, even we can share. Now, in that framework, where there is a low and comparable collection also to that of other countries in our environment, but which is trying to increase, there is a very unequal distribution, which is also a fundamental problem that needs to be corrected, but also all this occurs in something that has not come out in the previous interventions, which is the framework of the audiovisual market of pay-TVs in which we move; a framework that in recent weeks, linked in addition to at least the time, contemporary or contemporary to the drafting of this royal decree-law, has seen variations in the ownership of rights, in the ownership of the channels, and more in a country like Spain, where the percentage of cable television we have is much lower than that of other countries in our environment. That is to say, the government with this royal decree-law is trying not only to correct an injustice in the sharing of rights, it is not only to make a centralized sale that will allow for greater profits abroad, but also to promote the conversion into a business more comparable to that of other countries in our environment: that of pay television. I mean, when you increase the money you have to give to clubs, somewhere that money has to come out, it doesn't fall out of the sky, it doesn't come from the European Central Bank. The reflection we want to make on the citizens as a whole from my parliamentary group is that someone will end up paying this increase, from the 800 million liquidated to the 1.5 billion that is intended to be liquidated. This will be paid by citizens through a change or increase in the pay-TV model we have. Also, one of the fundamental elements that has been within the framework that has modulated this royal decree-law are the criticisms of the management of the Spanish Football Federation; criticisms that in some case have led to some statement with exabrupt included by the governing body of the league with the containment of the Cardinal, who today honors us with his presence, but that has led to a criticism that also has consequences regarding how the distributions by the Spanish Football Federation are modulated in this royal decree-law. The concern of my group is that all this at the end is based on a calculation of reaching in four or five years about 1.5 billion euros - I hope - and if no guarantee clauses have also been included that no one will lose out on all this. But, in the end, the big question is: Will the calculations be well done or will we be faced with a new bubble that has led to the situation in which Spanish football is currently found? Because the history that has brought us here has also been plagued by changes in the models of management, debt forgiveness, debt renegotiation and now it's about redundancy and new account, looking for a new business niche to increase all that ability to collect football so that there is a greater distribution and a coffee for everyone, which would be desirable. For my parliamentary group, as for the rest of the House groups, it is absolutely necessary that this royal decree be treated as a bill. Why? What amendments would we make? What issues do we consider to be improveable, even sharing the general philosophy of the need to go to a centralized model of audiovisual rights management? First, correcting the lack of prior negotiation that has occurred - other spokespersons have already told us - has not been directly negotiated with most clubs, we do not know how far the negotiations have come, but of course they have not included something as important and as necessary for football as are the footballers themselves, who have declared themselves in open rebellion and on strike. But, for example, my group would also find it absolutely necessary - we would put forward an amendment and then the People's Parliamentary Group, with its absolute majority, would decide whether or not to accept it - the division between First and Second Division, that 90/10 which seems unfair to us and which should go where other countries in our environment are going. We also believe that we need to ensure that wages are paid, not just those of the direct football workers, but also that of the humblest of the last club. That is to say, whatever happens, not only Finance and Social Security, which must have guaranteed the recovery, but also football workers will have guaranteed that they will receive their wages. In addition, the need to ensure the participation of workers' representatives; understand that this is said by a political force that defends the interests of workers. There is also a need for something that has been answered and that is one of the reasons for the strike: to modulate the reform of section 76.3 of the Sports Act. My parliamentary group would also present amendments and dialogue and propose that a consensus could be reached on increasing support for women's football - which is already envisaged - and for basic football, other sports... And, Mr. Wert, also awareness-raising campaigns against certain issues that are being worked on but that it is absolutely necessary to continue working on them, and I am talking about violence in sport, discriminatory behaviors that have occurred in football fields lately, LGBTIphobia... That is, issues that must also be part of the concern of public administrations to manage the money that comes from the world of football. The very criteria of distribution between clubs to make them as fair and equitable as possible; at least that is what my parliamentary group would like. And - it has also been told by other spokespersons - the issue of the control body, controlled by the two big clubs that are guaranteed to have an important weight there and that from our point of view it would have to be complemented, if not counterweighted. In short, my group suggests that it shares the view that this is the system to which we must go, to a centralised management of football rights. It seems good to us, but we understand that this is absolutely necessary to improve it, it is clearly improveable and that is why we defend and will defend it as a bill. In fact, a strike has been called to Spanish football, a big ordago has been made to this real-decree law, and it is a strike that is in your hand to deconvoke it automatically, in the hands of the People's Parliamentary Group. If tomorrow or today in your speech you announce that tomorrow you will vote in favour of the processing of this decree as a bill, I am absolutely convinced that the strike would be devocated. But if that is not the case, then if the Group of the European People's Party keeps up with this closure that characterizes it and with those mermaid songs that so much please the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, it will have guaranteed a win-win and of course it will not have the acquiescence and the favourable vote at least of our parliamentary group, and I am sure that neither will many others in the House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u225	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sayós i Motilla. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u226	Thank you, President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u227	Mrs. Outós, get back to the subject, please. The issue is, if I am not mistaken, the validation of a real-decree law on football advertising. Go back to the subject, Mrs. Sayós.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u228	Yeah, I'm going on. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u229	Mrs Sayós, out of respect also to those who are here, who unfortunately do not know Catalan, would beg two things. You have already had your time to speak in one of your languages, in your mother tongue - Catalan - now you go back to the Spanish language, which is the language of this Parliament as long as the laws and regulations of the House say so. And you come back to the issue also because that is what the law says that governs us all, our Rules of Procedure. Please, Mrs. Outós, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u230	I'll do it some other time. On the other hand, I must once again refer to the bad legislative practice of this government, and I will not tire of repeating it. I must insist once again that this Government must stop regulating by means of real decree-laws, because although they try to support their motives, the vast majority does not correspond to the spirit set out in article 86 of the Spanish Constitution, when it establishes 'in case of extraordinary and urgent need'. This would correspond to the suspension of the Government, applying the rules of the Football League, since they already accumulate more than five yellow cards on this issue. In reference to the actual decree-law that we are dealing with today, personal and social development, striving for overcoming, social integration, perseverance, teamwork, discipline, cooperation. These are the first lines of the explanatory statement. Remember? They're values of sport. That said, gentlemen of the government, yellow card and I will justify it. But first of all, Mr. Rajoy - I know you're not here, but tell him - your team is accumulating yellow cards. The first, the Vice-President, to take advantage of the Law on the Reform of Administrations and to introduce the regulation of the single sports license. The second, Minister Báñez, for equipping non-profit entities, such as small and medium-sized sports clubs and entities, as if they were businesses and trying to get all sports volunteers to contribute to Social Security. It's a good thing you've noticed. The third, Minister Montoro, for carrying out a tax reform affecting the world of sport. For example, that all non-profit entities - regardless of their purpose and size - present corporate tax. Fortunately, they have also noticed this aberration. The fourth, Minister Wert, for not having sufficient value for the drafting of a law of patronage, which would favor the world of culture, the world of sport and, of course, transparency. And now the fifth, the executive himself, for issuing this royal decree-law without respecting the form. Maybe one of these yellow cards should be red, but we're gonna take these yellow cards for granted. Mr Rajoy - I insist again, you are not, but tell him -, if your players continue to treat sport like this, you will run out of players. Having said that, from our Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, we have always defended the double aspect of professional football. On the one hand, we understand the concept of sport as an industry that generates a lot of economic synergies. On the other hand, we understand that we must continue to maintain the educational, social and healthy component involved in promoting this sport, from football stars to apprentices and future athletes, to which I have referred many times. It is also true that the consumption of sporting events through the media is growing exponentially. This means that if a few years ago what involved the entry of clubs was the ability to attract social mass to the fields, television revenues are now added, or there is even a certain dependence of clubs on these revenues. It should be remembered that currently the difference between the so-called big clubs and the rest is 15 to 1 between the one that receives the most and the one that receives the least. Well, it is true that the spirit of the Royal Decree-Law is to reduce to 4.5 or 3.5 depending on the totality of the revenues collected, all in full consonance with the main European leagues, such as the English or German, which are the most competitive. The royal decree-law also suffers from mistakes. The main mistake is in form, it is not having taken sufficient account of two important actors in this area too. One of them is the Spanish Football Federation, as it is affected by articles 2 and 8 and by the first additional provision in particular. And the other agent is the Association of Footballers, which are also affected especially in Article 6. The second mistake is that regulation of this matter is late. This regulation was expected in June last year and then at the end of last year; however, it comes two days before the end of the season, but better late than never. The rules are now missing. The third mistake is that women's sport is not regulated. Please also regulate women's sport. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law has a very significant positive part and for Convergence i Unió it has a very important weight. The main promoters of this more equitable legislation on the distribution of television rights is a repeated demand from a group of clubs that were harmed as they were unable to cope with their competitiveness. In addition, the individual audiovisual sales model applied to date has been completely exhausted, generating a multitude of tensions between the different clubs and operators, reaching even the judicial bodies. We believe that this royal decree-law will determine a more balanced and respectful formula with the interveners or at least consider it an important starting point that is much closer to the existing regulations in other major leagues such as the German and the English, as I have already said. The determining factor for this Parliamentary Convergence and Union Group is the consensus among the actors involved in this regulation, especially the clubs. For them it is very important for many reasons. I have personally called all the presidents of the Catalan clubs, obviously, and some of the rest of the State of First and Second Division and, ladies and gentlemen, they are all looking forward to the validation of this royal decree-law. Unanimously and on the part of Convergence and Union we respect and abide by this request for common sense. Moreover, all fans are looking forward to how the competitions will end. Let me think about it. Fans are the ones who pay to watch football on television, live in the fields or deferred. They are people who want to enjoy the sport and with their teams. Fans are the ones who make football great. The clubs, the Football Association, the Spanish Football Federation, the Professional Football League, the Government and this House, all of us owe it to them. An example, the Getafe-Eibar game. Eibar is a population of almost 27,000. Well, this weekend 3,000 amateurs, i.e. 10% of their population, are moving to Getafe to see their team. Fans have spent money to encourage their team and you should think about it. Finally, respect, responsibility, honesty and loyalty - explanatory statement I, first lines - remember? They are also values in sport. Out of respect for football fans, out of responsibility and honesty towards clubs, out of loyalty to the agreement reached between the parties involved in this royal decree-law, and I hope that at this point the mistake made by not taking sufficient account of the Spanish Football Federation or the Football Association, we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law. We will not do this by its forms, and I have also explained why, but by common sense, which also emerges from this exhibition; common sense, which is another value in sport, politics and life, but, remember, they are accumulating yellow cards in the unempathetic treatment towards sport. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Outós. For the Socialist Group, Mr Pezzi.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u232	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a decree-law on the marketing of professional football audiovisual rights. The truth is, they're going to let us just validate it. The consensus they offer us is that we can vote yes, no or abstain, a big margin for a House like this. The government not only advocates the power of decree, but also the power to legislate, and what competence do we have here? The one to applaud and, if not, the one to dissent, in order, we will not use too bright or too modern modes and call our attention to return to order. We're facing a drag. Minister, this is lentils, take or leave them, and that is what all groups have said: lentils are there, take or leave them. Minister, you remind me of another important minister of your party in a while. You go back to 1997, with your boss Aznar and Álvarez-Cascos, when you imposed the law of retransmissions of sports competitions - remember? Football as a general interest and therefore in open -, which started to kneel to Grupo Prisa and Canal Plus and which counted on our rejection. Today again football serves not for consensus, not for agreements, but for kneeling to the Royal Spanish Football Federation, the Association of Spanish Footballers or parliamentary groups, to which we are not allowed to contribute in what we are experts, in lawmaking. This is the Legislative Chamber and you do not let us legislate and above all you do it wrong, because you do it without parliamentary consensus. Not even a fucking draft. The photocopies would have been paid for by us, Mr. Minister. They haven't sent a draft, nothing. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] And they say: we are in consensus, don't worry that we are in a good mood. You guys making friends. In this House we have just seen how they make friends. If you allow me a joke you and the president, of which I hope from your right proceed not to draw my attention, you have shown here that you have less waist than a wardrobe of three bodies, less waist than a closet of three bodies. [[Laughter]] It has not agreed with the world of football, nor with FIFA, nor with UEFA, which also have something to do with, nor with the Royal Spanish Football Federation, nor with sports associations, nor with football associations... Who did you agree with? Well, he's come to terms with you and the employer. You bring in an employer law in which you say you're going to get between 1,000 and 1,500 million and distribute them without remembering the world of basic sport, modest football, women's football, sports associations... There's nothing you're interested in. And everyone in the sports world that they don't take into account is told: go to the Higher Sports Council, which has a budget of 80 million euros in the 2015 budget. You bring a decree-law to spread between 1,000 and 1,500 million euros, basically almost 99%, for football, and they tell all sectors: don't worry, here's the advice. With 80 million all sectors, all federations, all sportsmen are covered. This isn't serious. They bring us a decree-law issued by the league's boss, which has threatened to stop football if they did not approve it immediately, and they have folded as servants, despite the fact that consensus was mandatory, because for urgency to be taken into account consensus was mandatory. We would have been with you. Don't you understand that they bring a law that won't have consensus, breaking the consensus we made with the Anti-Doping Act or the Anti-Violence in Sport Act? You break a patch of parliamentary agreements uselessly, just because Javier Thebas has the loudest voice than you, and you have kneeled, and kneeling and circumflejo does not rule well, I tell you, because these muds will then bring many problems in the future that you are going to live. [[Applauds]] Are we in favour of joint marketing? Yes, Minister. We said this in the Subcommittee on Professional Sports, raised by me as a sports spokesperson in the previous legislature. We said that joint marketing should be done, but that it should be done through dialogue, negotiation and agreement by all the parties involved. Did you do it like that? No, no, He has failed to comply with a mandate from this House which told him to do so, but to do it well, not to coddle the model that brings us here. You, by putting yourself in the position of making an employer's decree-law to the only ones who are giving the most direct benefits is to the clubs, but the clubs are anonymous sports societies and the anonymous sports societies have owners, have owners, have shareholders. I was telling my group in the explanation of what position there is a lot here I heard, I heard, I heard, but in the end the owner of the shares is a man with name and surname, with his current account, with his place to save the money. Let's see if with the oé, oé, oé, we believe that we will distribute the money among the followers of Granada, Córdoba, Eibar; no, it goes to the owner of the club. Therefore, you have to be more careful, because you are making employer legislation. Then they distribute it, from my point of view, without solidarity. 90/10 is a bad solution. In our European context we reach 80/20, making the foundations of the professional system, the Second Division, more powerful, more likely, more competitive. You have bent not to do it this way. Then they say: don't worry, we will give up to 7% of compensation aid, 6,5 or 7, depending on the circumstances. But 6% goes to football, only 1% goes to elite sportsmen, to whom Social Security pays, without knowing how they will do it, because many of the elite sportsmen already have Social Security. What kind of contracts? What kind of scholarships? Work contract? Are you going to hire them? How? When? In what way? Because this from the Social Security Treasury and paying the fees you have to specify it, and you don't specify it here. You bring us a decree-law at a time when you have had problems and you see it in the writing, because you have had to put in the control commission, with voice, but without vote, the Tax Agency, the Social Security and, already on the way, as there were chairs that were left, also the Higher Sports Council and the Royal Spanish Football Federation. But can you, in a control committee, offer a chair with a voice, but without a vote, to the Royal Spanish Football Federation? They've been looking for his nose, they've been looking for his mouth, and they've come across a problem now. How do they solve it? I will tell you, minister, the strike is resolved today and all the problems of consensus, if your group votes to be treated as a bill, because they give the voice to national sovereignty, because the voice does not have it by the minister, the voice by the General Courts, the Congress of Deputies and the Senate. [[Applauds]] Give the voice to those who have chosen us, to the citizens. If not, what am I doing here? What kind of legislature is this going to be? You're not gonna let me legislate on football. You eat it too, but if you are a minister, you leave something for me and for others, power to legislate, which is what citizens have chosen us for with their votes, with their right to vote. The decree is very unequal, so unequal, so badly done, that it has an exposition of reasons in which it says that those who wear the Higher Sports Council are monsters, are the best in the world, have managed to lower the debts of football. These things are not put in the laws, they are put on Twitter, on Facebook, on Linkedin, they are sent in a friendly plan; in the laws it is not put that Michael Cardinal is a monster, in the good sense of the word, that he is a person who has done a very good management. If your party is going to name you what you want later, when you're in opposition, there's no problem. The law is so badly done that it says they're going to make 1 billion or 1.5 billion. In what law have you seen a forecast made in your articles about how much you are going to enter? It'll depend on the market. Or is there no market here? An element to show you how inconsistent you are. President, I'm just finishing up, thank you very much. [[Laughter]] They haven't sent him to the Council of State. You know why? Because it wouldn't have happened - I know it's not mandatory -, the law is on the edge of legality, you know it. The 1990 Sports Act, the Audiovisual Communication Act, the Sports Federations Decree, have been changed, removing the powers that other laws had given him, without any legal report that suits him. In this context, I ask you that instead of making statements in the corridor - you have apparently been making statements saying: you do not adapt to what is reasonable - you take in the corridor to your deputies and tell them: we are going to process it as a bill. Call Villar, Rubiales and whatever it is and tell them: no problem, in the hands of the Members this problem of football is solved, because I understand that the ministers are not able to solve complex problems. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u233	Thank you, Mr. Pezzi, for doing your job and mine. For the People's Group, Mrs Blasco.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that many times, when you hear from this rostrum, you are sometimes surprised and do not know what the reality is. If reality is what has been said here, if it is what comes out in the media, if it is what you talk to one, what you talk to others, if in the end there is talk of consensus, of talking. I remember that in the subcommittee that was created in this House Mr Pezzi wanted Villar to come and he didn't come, I don't know if he forgot to say it; he didn't come to this subcommittee. He said he didn't want to, but you wanted to talk, come, and consensus and give us solutions. You don't know who the government's talking to. The government has sat with Mr Villar, sometimes because he wanted to, sometimes not; he has sat with the AFE, sometimes because they wanted to, sometimes not. And now we're talking about no dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, the government when it is going to carry a bill of this size speaks, of course it speaks; it talks to whom it has to talk, what happens is that when you don't get what people want, the forecasts they have or the part of the cake they want, they get angry and we're in the situation we're in now. I think we'd have to be sensible, calm down a little bit more and realize that in the end this decree was necessary. They've been asking for it for so many years. Mr Lissavetzky was asked to do so, he was asked to do so from the previous Government; they were asking for it and they did not agree. Many Members of Parliament, or on the street, said to me, "This is what they do not understand. I'll explain. Here is a employer, it is true, the clubs, the anonymous societies, who have rights and who say: We do not agree; please, Government, do it you. And that's what we've done. And we've got the employer, who owns the rights, to agree. Have there been any first or second teams that have protested? No, no, What's 90/10? Well, they wanted it to be that way, because with them they did sit down. We are presenting here a bill that all the media want, that fans want; everyone wanted this bill, ladies and gentlemen. We are saying: I will no longer be able to intervene in this House; since it is not a bill I will not be able to bring people here. No, no, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the situation that Spanish football is in right now and that we want it to change, and with this decree it can change. [[Applauds]] For our group today is a very important day, a very important day for sport in general. I come from the world of sport, I've been a sportsman all my life and you can't imagine the number of calls I've had, congratulations, from many areas because this decree is supportive. Here it has been said that it was not solidarity, that it was not solidarity with women. It's the opposite. We're talking about the football money, the money that the clubs shared before for them, that they didn't give anyone else, it was for them and they did what they wanted and the way they wanted. Not now; money has now been made for other parts. Was it necessary? Of course it was necessary. It was the opportunity, it was the one here and it was the one now. The regulation we are seeing right now is because of urgency, and in addition, everyone has said so. We've sat with the AFE yesterday three times already, they understand that it's not going by royal decree, but in the end, well, it's true, because it's going to be very long... It's just that there's urgency, of course there's urgency, some clubs are finished with the contracts they have, the league is over, they want to know what's going to happen, there's uncertainty. We all know the situation where there are so many clubs right now or anonymous societies in our cities, that they don't have to be able to pay the clubs and if in the end that ratio changes to have more money, they're going to have more revenue, we're going to make it a much more competitive league. We were talking about 7/1 and we're going to be able to move on to 3.5/1. In the end, this is a good decree, it's a very good decree. What was going on in some clubs in our cities? That they have no money, that they are asked of the city council, that they are asked of the autonomous communities. What do we want with this decree? That they have their own resources and do not have to ask, that they have their own resources to carry out all their activity, that they pay their debts. They're talking here that they don't pay their debts to Social Security, to the Treasury... Ladies and gentlemen, it is the first time in history that there has been an agreement with the Higher Sports Council - which I would also like to congratulate you on the agreement that was made with the Professional Football League - that the debt of football with Finance and Social Security has been lowered. If we had continued as before, as in its stage, this would have continued to grow. I remember in the Commission that they were saying to Wert: You don't believe this either, you're probably selling us the monkey here. No, no, the debt has been found to have fallen. We all know that the Football League has gotten very serious with all the clubs and if you have this, you can spend this. No, this is what you have and this is what you can spend. That's where we want to get, to a real football economy, that they can pay their debts, that they can pay their footballers. If in the end the club has more money, it will pay much better to its footballers, we will get them not to go to other leagues, we will make it a much more balanced league, more equitable. Of course, that's what we want, that's what the government wants. We could have said, as other governments have done: No, no, this is a problem, we do not want it. But we haven't done that. When they say we haven't talked to the other agents, that's not true. And I tell you again, Subcommission Villar said he didn't want to come. When he wants to come, when he doesn't, no. But if the cake interests me, if I ask for a 2 and they tell me a 2 no or if I want a 5, in the end it's true that there is a negotiation. The important part where he's going? To the clubs. Why? Because it belongs to them. But we have managed, ladies and gentlemen, to change the situation with regard to football, which is bankrupt. What have we got in the end? Let there be benefits. Of course there's going to be profits, higher profitability. It has been said that in 2013 800 million can be increased to one thousand. That's a reality. In the Premier they are earning 1,875 million euros. We are the best league, but much more deficient, it is the league that has the most debts with the Treasury, with players, and that is what we want to change with this decree. That is the urgency, because the league is over and it starts again and we have to renegotiate. This is what the spectators, the media and many footballers have applauded us for, what happens is that they want more. But this is not the way for the AFE or a union to ask for a part; no, there are other formulas and we are going to try to help them, we have reached out to them, but we want the demands to make them where they have to do them. There are parts of this project that are very important. There's been talk of women's sport. This project carries out an important part for women's football, which had never been contemplated in the history of football, it seems that women's football is on the sidelines of football. No, here it's stipulated a little percent, women footballers are going to have a comeback. That's never been seen before in my life. This Government has committed itself to women's sport and this clause and in this section they demonstrate it. There is another very important aside and I would like to congratulate the person who has approved this directly. In the end the employer - as they have wanted to call it here - has decided that yes to something I have always wanted: corporate social responsibility. That there is 1% going for the social security of elite athletes is something I've been fighting for the fifteen years I've been in politics for. There are athletes who only live on their scholarships for many years of their life, who dedicate all their youth to sport, who are representing their country and who eventually finish their sports career and they turned out to have contributed nothing to Social Security. David Cal retired a very short time ago. [[Applauds]] What about David Cal? Which now says it starts in the labour market, but has nothing listed, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a part that's going to go for them, that's going for the Paralympic athletes like Teresa Perales, and that's stipulated here. And they say it's not social? I really don't understand. This decree is important for Spanish sport, it was necessary and this ministry and the Higher Sports Council have had the courage to carry it out. From our group I would like to congratulate you on having done so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Blasco. [[The Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, Wert Ortega, asks for the floor]] Minister, you can intervene.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost, with the benevolence of the President, I would like to express my perplexity at some of the things that have been said by Mr Tardà and Mrs Sayós, that I am sure they are based on a misinterpretation of words that have either been misunderstood or I may have been mistaken in saying them. But I want, with the solemnity of speaking from this arengary, to say quite clearly the following: nothing further from my intention than to utter words of any kind that can be understood as contempt or attack on a language to which I dearly love, which I speak despite not being Catalan, like many other people, who are part - a very important part - of our cultural heritage, who honors Catalans who are concerned about their defense and who, of course, consider the treatment they had during the previous regime abominable; I do not reduce it or the least. Secondly, I have never had the slightest intention of comparing the treatment that Spanish can receive today with the treatment that Catalan received during that regimen, never. I am not rectifying a few words, I am expressing what my thinking is on this issue, and there is certainly no will on my part - and I am sure that no representative of the People's Group either - to incur any form of contempt or undervaluation of that language. Having said that, we are going to the issues that have been raised. First of all, I would like to thank the tone of the interventions and those positive assessments both of the need for the norm and of the way in which it is addressed by the royal decree-law. And, also without the intention of reopening debate, I would like to clarify - simply clarify - some of the questions, the doubts that have been raised here. Many of these have been cleared by the representative of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Blasco, especially the very reasonable questions that have been raised about how the contribution of high-level athletes to social security will be implemented. It is true that high-level sportsmen already had a special regime, approved by the time of the government of the Socialist Party, but it is no less true that the degree of compliance, due to insufficient resources to make the corresponding contributions, was very scarce. What we are talking about is the use of these resources, which are considerable resources - at least EUR 10 million - to make the payment of these contributions to the special scheme of self-employed high-level athletes. Evidently it is opportune, it is always opportune, when resorting to this exceptional procedure of the royal decree-law, whether or not the circumstances of extraordinary and urgent necessity compete and to what extent. I have already made them clear in my speech, but I would like to highlight another aspect which I believe has not been sufficiently appreciated by those who have called into question this extraordinary and urgent need: the unanimity with which all the actors - as I say, regardless of whether they have subsequently expressed or ceased to express discrepancies with some specific aspect of the content - have asked the Government to use precisely this formula of the royal decree-law to produce it. Why? I think it is easy to understand: firstly, because everyone understands that the regime of the absence of a centralised system of sale of these rights significantly harmed their prospects of viability and, secondly, because everyone understands that there is a debt situation and not only with Social Security and with Finance, which, as Mrs Blasco has pointed out, has been substantially reduced, but there are also some debts, the most important, with credit institutions and therefore there is a financially precarious situation that the adoption of such legislation must help to remedy. I would like to conclude this intervention, which is only intended to clarify, stating that the possibilities of reaching consensus to which I referred in my initial intervention do not necessarily have all of them to proceed through the transformation, once validated by the Royal Decree-Law, in its processing. Why? Because, as far as the claims of the Association of Spanish Footballers are concerned, most of them have such a nature that it is made through the conventional instrument, that is, through the collective agreement. Likewise, because some of the claims made by the Royal Spanish Football Federation are perfectly soluble through conventional instruments, that is, through a piece that continues to exist and remains central in the relations between the Royal Spanish Football Federation and the Professional Football League, which is the agreement between these two entities. That is why I would like to reiterate, ladies and gentlemen, that we are working day and night to achieve greater consensus not so much on this rule that, I insist, it is not this rule that makes consensus difficult, but that the resulting balance between the various actors in this system that are going to be affected by the decree-law may be more satisfactory for all. Of course, we understand that the benefit is not only the benefit that the clubs are going to receive, but it is also the benefit of those to whom most of the income of the clubs, which are the footballers, goes. But in addition, and this is the social component that we wanted to highlight, we want there to be an important benefit for sport in general, for amateur sport in particular, and not only for men's and professional football, but for amateur football, for women's football and for high-level sport. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u237	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sixto, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u238	Minister, the processing of this rule as a royal decree-law, if it was intended to mark an end to the processes of negotiating new contracts, you have achieved it. The decree has been in force since 1 May. There is therefore no need to negotiate new agreements. The target's already been achieved. It has no justification, nor has it been made clear in its second intervention why it is not allowed to proceed as a draft law and relies solely on the will, once again spurious, of the Government to negotiate. Because you never negotiate anything; your ministry, your person, has never negotiated anything, has imposed everything like a drag. There is no willingness on his part, beyond his own words, to negotiate absolutely nothing a posteriori. And if you have it, be treated as a bill, because the purpose of this decree-law, which was to paralyse subsequent negotiations and mark a turning point, is already achieved and will be in effect at all times. It is not that the parliamentary groups are against the decree, as the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group has claimed. We have said that in our parliamentary group we are in favour of moving towards this model, but we need to modulate it; from our point of view it is clearly better, and that is why we demand that it be treated as a bill. We will not abandon that claim and, of course, Minister, we do not trust your word at all. And although you have apologized and the Vice President of Congress has allowed you to do so from the rostrum. We understand that this is the tone that has to be used since the presidency of the House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u239	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. Mrs Sayós, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u240	Thank you, President. We take note of the Minister's correction, but it has been a long time since he offended Catalan society. We hope that this will not happen again. With regard to the request they have unanimously requested, as the minister says - it is true that it was asked to be processed as a royal decree-law - I doubt very much that some clubs know what the difference is between the processing of a royal decree-law and that of a bill. Therefore, this is also important. At the time of debt reduction, it is true that debt has been reduced with the Tax Agency, but not thanks to you, but to the demands that the Professional Football League itself has imposed on clubs. And with regard to consensus, as I said in my speech, it is the main argument of Convergence i Unió, but there is also a lack of form. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Outós. Mr Pezzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u242	Thank you. I'm told that at the National Court this morning, the president of the room who was attending the possibility of strike asked the AFE: Do you want to repeal the decree? With all due respect, this is a royal decree-law. Therefore, in its handling as a bill it can legitimately change any word, from the first to the last, of the royal decree-law that has been sent to the House. That is not going to happen to 186 Members. Therefore, you did not run the risk that everything you really wanted would not be approved in this House, but we did offer you the possibility of removing the elements that are most questionable in law and that were made to mogollon, without having been sufficiently thought out. That's why we wanted it to have common sense. In this debate, the media, especially sportsmen, speak of a royal decree and forget the script to which the word law follows. And the difference is not small. The script followed by law allows this royal decree-law to change the Sports Act 1990, change the Audiovisual Communication Act, change a number of commercial or civil laws. So, when a player, for example Pedro León, is going to claim his right to have his card registered, they will say to him: No, don't you remember?, if you have already approved the royal decree-law that came into force on May 2, the day after its publication in the newsletter, which states that what the president of the League of Professional Football says in economic matters goes to Mass and, therefore, you have already lost rights, civil law, commercial law, you no longer have rights. We have given the employer an a la carte instrument to carry out the measures of centralised sale, distribution and that no one should get out of the model.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u243	Mr. Pezzi, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u244	Secondly - and very briefly - was the centralized sale good? Yes, unanimously, no one said no. Should we do it by law? Not necessarily. Let's be serious.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u245	Mr. Pezzi, you had a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u246	I'm asking you for a moment. The Premier League and the Bundesliga do not do so by law, neither the British nor the Germans. It can therefore be done in another way; it can be done by agreement of the parties, as car manufacturers do provided that they comply with the rules of competition and the market. Here you are given a plus and when someone is given a plus legal you have to contribute to the general good of society. And the general good of society is that we have made you a law to make more money and you have to contribute with the money and the law that we have given you to the general good of all sport, of the country, not only in your interest, your ark and your current account because for that they organize themselves on their own.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u247	Mr. Pezzi...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u248	If you come here as a royal decree-law, contribute to the general good. That is what we socialists are defending: the general good of all sport, not just elite football. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u249	Thank you, Mr. Pezzi. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u250	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be very brief. Many thanks to the interveners once again. I think we could be discussing all morning whether the level of dialogue has been sufficient or insufficient, whether it has been dialogued with the whole world or not. I can tell you, as far as I am concerned, that I have dialogued with everyone who has wanted to dialogue and that I have done so with the carefulness that has been necessary. And I want to insist on the fundamental and the fundamental in a regulation like this is that in the end the greatest resources that are going to be attached are going to go mostly to professional footballers, but they are also going to attend to social functions that were not attended to and that from now on they will be. They are the ones that have to do with high-level athletes, the ones that have to do with women's football and they are also the ones that have to do with professional associations, with AFE and other associations, and of course they are the ones that will also allow the Spanish Football Federation to increase the resources it obtains for this marketing in a very important way. We are therefore going to try to make this regulation work for everyone; not just for one, but for all the objectives we are pursuing, so we are going to try to do it in the most peaceful and dialogueable way possible. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u251	The next item is the debate on all legislative initiatives. Firstly, the debate on the third sector of social action bill. The Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor for his presentation to the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u252	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with the introduction of the Third Sector of Social Action Bill and then we will have the debate on the Voluntary Bill. But I would like to begin by greeting the representatives of the third sector who accompany us today from the guest gallery, Luciano Poyato, President of the Platform of the Third Sector, Luis Cayo, President of Cermi, Carlos Susías, President of the Spanish Network to fight poverty and social exclusion; Juan Lara, President of the Platform of NGOs of social action, and I believe that Leopoldo Pérez, Secretary General of the Spanish Red Cross, is also here. I would also like to greet the representatives of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, who are headed by the Secretary of State for Social Services and Equality, Susana Camarero. They are protagonists of the legislative contribution that the Government presents here today, protagonists and authors, because we have worked with them all, in a collaboration that we want this law of the third sector of social action to strengthen even more. [[The lady]] In any case, this afternoon we are in Congress with the idea of discussing the amendments to the whole of this text, amendments to the whole of which I understand that they want to provoke a debate and express from this rostrum and in this Chamber arguments which I trust will not be translated into rejection of a law which we want and which also wishes the third sector of social action as a whole, that is, we want it to be felt as its own by the whole of Spanish society and by all the groups represented in this House. The laws I am presenting this afternoon seek to consolidate the Government's efforts throughout the legislature to strengthen the support, dialogue and participation of social entities working with the most vulnerable. In that regard, we have drawn up four main axes. First, we have supported the autonomous communities and local entities at a very difficult time from the budgetary point of view, from the financial point of view; we have supported them to pay the outstanding debts to these entities. Thus, a support plan for NGOs was put in place for €3 billion. Secondly, we wanted to safeguard the call for grants from the IRPF. A new legal framework was created to ensure its functioning and also to respond to the competition disputes - Mr Campuzano - which are so often raised in this House. These grants and this call have allowed us to distribute over 630 million euros over the past three years to hundreds of entities and to make possible many programs on which the assistance of thousands of people in our country depends. Thirdly, tax measures have also been promoted. The tax reform introduced by the Government increased the deduction by donations from 25% to 30%; another five points if maintained for at least three years. A non-profit corporation tax exemption route has also been opened. Finally, we hope to be able to continue to deepen fiscal reforms that will help third sector entities. Fourthly, the involvement of third sector entities in shaping the social policy of public administrations has been strengthened. This is channelled through the civil dialogue table with the third sector platform, which is our mechanism of permanent dialogue to improve the effectiveness of social policy. As you can see, we are now giving you special legal consideration as a partner of the Administration. This is therefore the context in which the bill I have the honour to present to you today is framed. I am convinced, as I said at the beginning, that there are so many more things we can share than those that make us have a different vision. I'm going to start by explaining why a third-sector law like the one that's brought up here is necessary. Firstly, we must highlight the reality that exists in our country, with more than 30,000 social entities, whose activity accounts for almost 2% of GDP and which are generating more than 630,000 jobs in Spain. It is therefore a powerful reality, an active reality, a reality that has significance also from the point of view of economic activity. These entities have been present for decades in dealing with situations of social exclusion, they are the vanguard in our country's social progress and progress. They have been the network in the time of difficulties of this crisis, but they are always the network for those who live moments of difficulty even in times of good times. The work of all entities is therefore absolutely key to helping people in vulnerable situations, to promote inclusion and integration and to raise awareness and awareness of our citizens. It has been a long time since this organization called for a regulatory framework at the state level to protect and strengthen this important work that they perform and that I cannot help but recognize and exalt from this rostrum. It has to be a regulatory framework in line with the current reality and the very important evolution that the third sector has had in recent years. It must define its characteristics, its specificities and also its relations with the Administration and its economic sustainability. We regulate within the framework of the competence provided by Article 149.1.1a of the Spanish Constitution, which establishes the exclusive competence of the State in regulating the basic conditions that guarantee the equality of all Spaniards in the exercise of their rights and in the fulfilment of their constitutional duties, and we do so without prejudice to the competences attributed to the autonomous communities in the field of social assistance, we do so expressly without prejudice to those competences. I know that there have been doubts about this in the past and will be raised again this afternoon, but I believe that this has been settled in the draft law which reflects the scope of application of state-level organisations operating in more than one autonomous community or in Ceuta and Melilla. The bill is based on three main pillars. First, to set up a legal framework that recognizes third-sector entities as entities that promote the solidarity of citizens as an expression of participatory democracy that brings new values and puts people's needs at the centre of their actions. Secondly, it is intended to strengthen its capacity as a necessary interlocutor before the General Administration of the State for the design, implementation and monitoring of public policies in the social field. Thirdly, the draft law seeks to define a series of incentives aimed at ensuring the sustainability of these entities. The draft law establishes clear legal outlines and regulations of its own, outlining the nature of the entities. It is absolutely clear from the explanatory statement that its activity cannot and will not in any case dilute the responsibility of the State or interfere with other entities committed to the defence of social interests or the activity of social actors. The third sector is defined below. This definition is also important in order to improve the legal certainty of these entities. It describes it as organizations of a private nature which have emerged from the citizens' or social initiative, under different modalities, which meet criteria of solidarity and social participation, for the purposes of general interest and absence of profit, which promote the recognition and exercise of civil rights, as well as the economic, social or cultural rights of persons and groups who are vulnerable or at risk of social exclusion. After defining them, it sets out and details the essential principles that must govern the activity carried out by these entities. Some are purely organizational, such as having legal personality, being of a private legal nature, lacking profit, ensuring the democratic participation of its members or having an altruistic character. Others relate to actions such as transparency in management, autonomy in decision-making, the promotion of social cohesion or the promotion of equality and non-discrimination. As regards the second of the axes, the draft law strengthens the capacity of the third sector as an interlocutor of the General Administration of the State, as I have insisted, in the design and implementation of public policies in the social field. To this end, it establishes two bodies of participation, the operation of which will be regulated by regulation and which are in fact already in operation. On the one hand, the State Council of Non-Governmental Organizations for Social Action, which is an area of meeting and dialogue of social policies and, on the other hand, the commission referred to earlier for civil dialogue, with the platform of the third sector, commission whose purpose is to institutionalize the collaboration, cooperation and permanent dialogue between the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality and that platform, in which the most important entities, organizations and federations of the third sector are framed at national level. This guarantees the real and effective participation of social entities in accordance with the principle of civil dialogue and opens up a forum of permanent dialogue, which is where we are in fact already living. In the third pillar, the draft law contains various forms of promotion and promotion of the third sector, which call for the work of the General Administration of the State in the development of public policies. At the economic level, the text provides that social entities shall enjoy the maximum tax benefits generally recognised in the current system of tax incentives for private participation in activities of general interest, which shall be reviewed whenever necessary in order to improve them. The text provides for the adaptation of public financing systems, always taking into account the prism of budgetary stability and European aid rules. It is also intended to promote the diversification of sources of finance, proposing an improvement of the rules on sponsorship and support for corporate social responsibility. In the area of social awareness, the text provides for other support measures, such as legal instruments that promote the social programmes of the entities or the promotion of the training of persons who carry out their activities and who do their work in this sector. Others pass, for example, to include - they are measures of promotion in the curricula in the different stages of education - contents and references to the solidarity work and the reality of the third sector that help to value it from adolescence, from the younger ones, as an effective way of participation of citizens, or other measures that are also seeking to boost the participation of women and thus the promotion of equality in these entities. In this regard, in the areas of promotion, support and dissemination, the text calls not only on the General Administration of the State, but also on the Autonomous Communities and entities, to establish collaboration, as they are doing, and to strengthen it especially through the signing of conventions. Ultimately, it is about having the capacity to continue to act together, because experience shows and common sense says that when we act together we are much more effective. In addition to these three fundamental pillars which I have outlined briefly and which contain this law, some further progress is being made. The most important, which is striking and which is a very direct mandate, is the adoption of a programme to boost third-sector entities. The Government is obliged to approve this programme of impetus within 12 months of the entry into force of the text. We therefore place very specific duties on ourselves and hope to be able to do so together with the sector. It is a programme that will also have to include concrete measures, which want to implement and develop the provisions for strengthening the entities provided for in the law. From there, once the Government has approved this drive programme for entities, there will be a two-year deadline for a report to be forwarded to this House assessing the effects and consequences of law enforcement. I mean, today we set a framework, today we give a content, today we make legal commitments, but we also commit ourselves to continue working, evaluating and seeing the consequences of the law. We therefore already propose its possible further improvement, in the light of experience. I think that's a good starting point for the law. There were some important issues, after learning about the experience, suffering and difficulties experienced by these entities, which are also incorporated here. For example, it is stipulated that the outstanding payment obligations of the autonomous communities and local entities with the third sector, as a result of agreements concluded in the field of social services, are treated in the same way as those of other suppliers and that, in the aid and in the public subsidies, the regulatory bases of the calls cover the specializations of the third sector in view of the general interest to which they serve and the singularities of their nature and activity. Finally, the text provides for the creation of a public and accessible inventory of entities by the Ministry, following the report of the State Council of Non-Governmental Organizations for Social Action in coordination with the Autonomous Communities. We will have accurate statistical information from social entities, which I believe will be a very useful tool for better knowledge of reality and for more timely management. We are therefore faced with a bill that is new, that does not exist, that comes to cover a vacuum, that comes to satisfy a demand, that comes to respond to an old request, that provides legal certainty, that gives support to the social entities of the third sector and that therefore gives them strength to continue to constitute one of the main social protection networks with which our country has. As I said at the beginning, as always - it is our disposition - there is room for dialogue, improvement and incorporation so that everyone can be represented. In short, both the spirit, the content and the predictions of the law respond to a desire to strengthen a general interest that I have no doubt that we all share. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u253	Thank you very much, Minister. Four amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund. In defence of the amendments tabled by the Joint Group, Mr Tardà has the floor. The representatives of the groups shall speak both for the defence of their amendment and, where appropriate, for the establishment of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u254	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, first of all, we want to highlight the great work being done by the third sector of social action for the benefit of society, inter alia, by carrying out social work which should be the responsibility of the same State, at least if we had a more developed welfare and social State. In fact, in a situation of crisis in the system and of social dualisation, which is generating so many inequalities, so much discrimination and so much social exclusion, the third sector becomes an indispensable pillar for social inclusion and cohesion. I believe that we agree on this, but it is also true that the State, far from taking measures to allow adequate funding for the third sector, is directly and indirectly cutting its resources, partly compromising its solvency, the jobs that depend on it and, in many cases, its own survival. On the other hand, the Government, with all its legitimacy, has been implementing impressive social cuts for a few years, cuts that cause serious social exclusions, reduce attention to victims and suffocate social organizations, social organizations that deal with the consequences of a very concrete economic policy and of government priorities that, in our view, are lackeys of financial power. This bill, for us - I say without any misunderstanding - has a bit of a trickster - using a term without any malevolent charge. Why do I say that? Because in the face of this reality, in the face of these cuts, this bill aims to show that the Spanish Government is more concerned about the third sector than it is actually concerned about. I am not saying that you sabotage it, I am not saying that you do not believe in it, I am saying that there have been other priority actions at least so far. In case there is any doubt about this, allow me to read the fourth additional provision of the bill, which literally says: The regulation included in this law will not entail an increase in public expenditure or an increase in allocations, salaries or other staff costs. Just like the right word isn't cheating, but at least I feel a little fooled. Maybe I'm the fool and not you, but I feel a little fooled. What good then is a law if it is not going to allocate a single penny to improve the precarious situation of organizations? It serves, as we see it, for three things. One - I have already said more or less - to show that there is a great deal of concern for the third sector, but the bill is only a measure that if it is not rhetorical at least it does have something to do with the part of the legislature in which we are in. I think this is a little true. On the other hand, this disease is not only suffered by his Government; all governments are tempted, in the last leg of the legislature, to make placebo laws to earn electoral market shares. It's our opinion. Secondly, there is another purpose, which is recentralisation. Once again the autonomic skills are lost, touched. Jaque to the competitions; it's a permanent jaque. That's right, they're winning, and they're winning by score. In fact, we're already installed in the matte check. I admit, we're already lost, at least us. Jaque kills the autonomic skills. There is not a single article of this law that does not involve interference with the competences of Catalonia and other autonomous communities. Thirdly, they give more and more weight to state organizations to the detriment of autonomous or less territorially established organizations. I believe that this balance has never been sought and I also believe - I know that this can bother some people who are here, but it is our criterion, perhaps wrong - that these organizations sometimes respond more to the interests of Madrid's nomenclature or installed in Madrid than to the universe of what they are in the whole territory; on the other hand, they are entities that develop an excellent social function. I hope that my words will not be distorted; it may be done, because on other occasions we have already been victims of these distortions: that if we go against the Red Cross, that if we go against Caritas, that if we go against ONCE. Word, word, word, seeking misrepresentation, when we are not only fervent defenders of these entities, but have always recognized the great work they have done in Catalonia and everywhere. But this dialectic exists and that is why we think that this law would have had to be much more daring when it comes to raising these problems that we have been dragging forward for years; even in the deeper, more intimate debate, between deputies or among politicians, there is sometimes an intuition, it is recognized, the existence of contradiction, but when the party that is in the opposition government forgets that it was interested in discussing it and the other way around. It happens as in electoral law reform projects, with perhaps another category. There are behaviors that have been very addictive for many years. There would be a way to act to give everyone a hand, for example, by modifying once and for all that which belongs to the 0.7 of the IRPF, of which we continue to demand, in a tiring way, its territorialization. My colleague and good friend, Member of the Socialist Party, has not been able to stop smiling now because she knows that, apart from the agreements or the disagreements, we have been discussing this for years and governments are passing - I am not saying the regimes, fortunately - and the problem is still being tackled. It is true that progress was made when the Socialist Party was governed, it is true that great progress was approved at parliamentary level; I must say in favour of its consistency that you always opposed it, but once the Socialist Party was approved it felt that we had to back off. We are caught up in this problem, but the data remains what they are. It's bad for me to have to talk about Catalonia, but I'm not saying it because I think it's better or worse, but because it's what I know most. There are still more Catalan citizens, in relation to the rest of the Spanish State who, apart from their political ideology, mark the box; the contributions in Catalonia are still ten points higher than in other territories of the Spanish State, ten points higher than in the average, then why is it received much less? This is the debate that has not been taken up. Now it turns out that this law is coming - maybe I'm too critical - and don't you think this should be discussed in parallel? I think so, among other things, because it is a debate that drags on and if one day you do not rule, this problem will continue to exist. I don't understand, if this was a great opportunity to put a tux on the third sector. This law has something that we all like and it is that it is always a way of recognizing the existence of the third sector. I'm not saying you're doing everything wrong, other than Minister Wert. This law, for the reasons I have mentioned, is a law that we consider unnecessary, that is not daring, is not courageous and does not reach all the deficits that we are dragging. Therefore, since our amendment to the whole will be defeated, we appeal, as we always do and you know well, to your way of working, so that in the parliamentary procedure we can straighten out the mischief a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Basque Group, Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u256	Welcome. [[The honourable Member is addressing representatives of the third sector of social action in the guest gallery]] I will be quite brief because this issue is recurrent, at least in what I will talk about. I would like to make very clear in advance the unquestionable and extraordinary work of the third sector entities at state level, especially a reminder for those in Euskadi, which, as you know, are very well-established and I believe we have been pioneers in the joint work between the public administration and that third sector. In fact, our candidate for the Mayor of Bilbao has been an out-of-court Member of Parliament for this matter, he has also been a counselor and, beyond politics and ideology, he is an extraordinarily well-recognized person in the sector, isn't he, Minister? He said that our recognition goes ahead, but our amendment of the whole to the bill of the third sector prayed, after a rigorous legal analysis of the law: 'The Basque Parliamentary Group presents this amendment of the whole because it considers that the normative intervention of the State through the draft exceeds its competences and unconstitutionally interferes with the competence of the autonomous communities in the field of social assistance. The title of competence to which the draft is submitted, as expressed in Article 149.1.1a of the Spanish Constitution, once again does not cover the regulation which the State seeks: in this matter - Minister, you know him first-hand - 'the autonomous communities have been vested with the competence to issue the relevant legislation without, on a recurrent basis, being able to refer the State to the terms of Article 149.1.1a of the Spanish Constitution in these areas of assistance court. If this conception is maintained - the amendment said - 'the state causes a brutal interference with the autonomous regulations in this matter'. Well, I'll briefly translate it to the non-formal Spanish. The truth, minister, with all the affection of the world - you know that you are the minister of government whom I most appreciate - are you artists. It is more than obvious that the project that you are proposing provokes an indisputable competitive invasion that will clash head-on with the forecasts of the Statute of Gernika, which in its article 10 states that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has exclusive competence in the following matters: social assistance and foundations and associations of a teaching, cultural, artistic, charitable and assistance character - could recite others, but I think that with these two is more than enough -. In addition, they are clear from the first additional provision of the Spanish Constitution, which states: 'The Constitution protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories', and this is so, Minister. This is a unique, foral-rooted competition of a pre-constitutional nature, which has historically been exercised by Basque foral-deputies. Sometimes I get the feeling like legislating is jauja. I'm a little exhausted on this subject. [[Laughter]] Do I get serious? It would be so much worse. As if legislating was a jauja, as if the rule of law were a gum that you sometimes pretend to stretch or shrink to your liking, you cling to this mess drawer - I call it disaster, not tailor-made - and to that article 149.1.1.a of the Constitution to invade our powers without indecentness. In addition, I will tell you, Minister, that there is repeated and constant case law - a drip - of the Constitutional Court which points out that this is not a title of competence and, despite that, they repeatedly pull from it to try - I understand that in this case with good will - to give a correct fit in the legal system to issues that in the end are undermining, they are shrinking, they are restricting the powers of the autonomous communities. I told them it's boring to me because I climb this rostrum too many times and mention this article and I think it's enough. But that's not the worst thing. The worst thing is that it is sad to see how they destroy - I am referring to the Government - the consensus and agreement reached in the construction of the constitutional bloc without blushing, also generating deep legal uncertainty, because, indeed, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, these issues are already regulated or being regulated by our autonomous communities in a consensual manner and, in our case, with the third Basque sector, and they do so also by arbitrating provisions that sometimes clash with those provided for in the autonomous regulations. I have already made it clear to you, I have spoken to the third Basque sector and it is not in favour of the adoption of this rule, they see difficulties. You said, Minister, if I have not noted wrongly, that the legal contours have been clearly defined. I don't think so, Minister. He referred to constitutional jurisprudence. Besides, I'm gonna ask you a question. What happens when a third-sector entity prefers to operate in Euskadi, but under circumstances it works in another autonomous community? What regulations are we going to apply? Basque law? State law? These issues need to be clarified. I have to do another review. I believe that they regulate matters which fall within the competence of the autonomous communities, that they are placed in that market - in 11-bar shirts in some cases - where they are not competent and that they do not, on the other hand, legislate in matters which I believe have also been mentioned by Mr Tardà, of particular relevance to the third sector. They speak of 0.7, to us for the special economic regime does not affect us. Other matters that are the responsibility of the Government include, for example, tax treatment, VAT on public procurement, social clauses or sponsorship, among other issues. I can also assume that it is more comfortable for large state networks that are integrated in the third sector to relate only to the central administration than to have to relate to seventeen autonomous communities or autonomous administrations, but this does not justify such legal dislating. I believe that this option also destroys the value of respect for the law and that constitutional framework that we have acquired. I will no longer exhaust my time because our position has become sufficiently clear. The third sector has our support, but we have tabled this amendment in its entirety because of the competitive considerations I have put forward. I believe that this amendment will be rejected in its entirety, but I trust, Minister, that, throughout the procedure for the processing of the law, we will be able to sort out the doubts that may remain about the respect for autonomous legislation, in so far as this law is constituted as a basic law, and that, I see, seeing the regulatory hierarchy of the State, is causing serious problems. That's our offer. We will try to reach agreements, consensus, throughout the process of the law, but in any case we wanted to make our position clear with regard to this new competitive invasion that we believe has been driven by the Government of the State. Thank you so much. I hear you in your next speech.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u257	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u258	Thank you, President. Minister, entities and representatives of the third social sector, if anything has evidenced the crisis that our country is experiencing, is the strength, in the most conceptual and broader sense of the expression, despite the difficulties that the entities, associations, foundations, cooperatives of social initiative, social inclusion companies, cooperatives, in short, entities and activities that, altruistically some and as service providers others, have acted decisively to minimize the effects of poverty, inequality and social exclusion suffered by thousands of families in our country as a result of the economic crisis, but also of the dismantling of the welfare state that characterizes the policies that the Government of the People's Party is developing. Concertation between the public sector and the entities of the third sector with the autonomous communities, but mainly with the local government of our country, the first trench to combat the serious consequences of the crisis, has been essential to minimize, as I have said, its effects. There are 29,000 entities, 500,000 workers, 900,000 volunteers who work daily in our country with thousands and thousands of children and adolescents, with older persons, with dependent persons or with disabilities, with drug addicts or with mental health problems, with families and people conditioned by inequality, poverty and social exclusion. All those entities that act with these thousands of people who suffer and suffer from the crisis, inequality and exclusion are the third sector of social action. The Government is presenting to us for discussion and approval the bill of the third sector of social action. We recognize that it represents a step forward in the consolidation of a sector that so far did not have a regulatory framework that protects the entities working in it and that are taking action to address situations of social need, inequality and social exclusion. Yes, we recognize that this is a step forward, but it must also be said clearly that it is insufficient. The exercise of the law in defining and clarifying the concept of a third sector of social action is equally positive. The adoption of this text offers identity, stability and guarantees to many entities. Indeed, it is a step forward, but it is clearly insufficient. However, since it is the first time - and I will explain why we consider it insufficient - that a regulatory framework is being presented and set up to encompass the action of the third sector, a golden opportunity has been lost to deal with and regulate in a global and cross-cutting way all the historical demands of the sector. Not everything is positive in a law that forgets fundamental demands and needs for entities in the third social sector. The bill does not resolve petitions such as the necessary legislative amendments to the VAT Act, the Public Sector Contracts Act, the Subsidies Act, the Corporation Tax Act, tax incentives and sponsorship legislation or public utility legislation, and may continue to cite some more. In response, the State has been dedicated in recent years to promoting regulatory changes that have only made the legal framework worse - the Subsidies Act, the Companies Tax Act, the VAT of educational activities, the Money Laundering Act - by hindering or denying multiple attempts to improve it or by limiting itself to small cosmetic changes that do not solve or remain half-way. It leaves out of the sector social initiative cooperatives and integration companies. It only admits associations and foundations. We have to recognise - and we have to highlight it - the work that social initiative cooperatives and integration companies do both in the field of the third sector and in the dynamism of economic activity, as this sector has great weight in our country. I have referred to the principle of intervention precisely to the more than 500,000 workers in the sector and to the number of volunteers working in the sector. The third sector is an important contribution to the country's economy, to the social economy and to job creation. On the other hand, the law creates a status of collaborating entities of the General Administration of the State, which may lead in the future to a greater centralization in the distribution of resources from the State, to the detriment of those entities that act mainly at the local and autonomous level. The organisation of the regulatory framework may hinder the territorialisation of funds from 0.7 % of the personal income tax, reinforcing that it is the State that continues to distribute them in an unequal way. The PNV partner referred to the invasion of competencies. In the case of Catalonia, we could talk about exactly the same thing. Catalonia, despite representing 16% of the Spanish population, receives a much lower amount from this fund than it would and in addition in contravention of some decisions of the Constitutional Court issued in this regard. I will simply recall that the 2014 approximations say that Catalonia has contributed 54.4 million euros and yet it has received only 30.8 million in subsidies from social programs. I say that as a reference. If, above all, the distribution of State resources is refocused, it would be consistent with the policy of the People's Party, but it would not be consistent with the territorial, social and political reality of Spain, which is also recognized in the Constitution when it speaks of the existence of nationalities. It closes the participation of other sectors other than the Third Sector Platform in the Civil Dialogue Commission, and all this despite the fact that this platform, being clearly representative - it represents an important representation of entities at the state level - does not represent the entire sector in Spain. I refer again to the intervention of the PNV partner. Euskadi and Catalonia would be a clear example of how entities, companies, cooperatives working in the social economy have a clear influence on the activity, policies and development programmes linked to the third sector. The Government's proposal therefore leaves out institutions such as those of the third Catalan sector, which have demonstrated a clear commitment to the defence of people and vulnerable situations. This will prevent the participation of a leading social, political and economic actor in the defence of social rights, the provision of services to the most vulnerable, public awareness and the promotion of volunteerism. If I have previously referred and given the data on the situation at the state level of the third sector, according to the 2013 yearbook of the third social sector in Catalonia, it consists of more than 6,800 entities, has an economic volume equivalent to 2.8% of Catalan GDP, 102,000 people hired, 300,000 volunteers and 2,100,000 people receive the attention and benefit from the work of all these entities. Therefore, entities representing this important sector, even if they are not on the platform, cannot be left out of consensus, political work, the relationship of the State. The Government has to rectify it and has to correct it, because, if not, it will be a sign not only of insensitivity to the reality of our country, but of not recognizing the work so important that they can be doing in the Basque Country or in Catalonia entities linked to the third sector. The work in defence of social rights by these entities is undeniable and should therefore be included in the Civil Dialogue Commission seeking the formula that is either, in the case of Catalonia, through the Taule d'Entitats of the Third Sector, which includes 33 federations and more than 4,000 entities, or through the formula that is established, but find it, find it, please. Finally, on the issue of public expenditure, the Plural Left is confident that funding mechanisms will be put into practice and that the Government will take into account in its further development the proposals of the sector and the needs of its constituent entities, severely burdened by the economic scourge of these years of crisis. The sector needs specific measures to enhance its capacity to act, and to include an additional provision explaining the non-increase in public spending on the deployment of the law is completely absurd and misleading both the third sector and the citizenry. [[The Lord]] Since you have not been able to strengthen the welfare state, contributing with your policies to increase the inequality and lack of cohesion of our society, we ask you to reconsider your proposal for a bill, which seems to us insufficient, of very minimal minimums. A chance has been missed that should be recovered. Although we recognize that this is a step forward, we insist, it is insufficient, it responds to minimums acceptable to entities in the sector, but which do not satisfy overall. Unfortunately, as I say, an opportunity has been missed. We hope that the amendments will be able to correct and improve the draft law and that some of the elements that we have put forward in the general reflection of this amendment as a whole will be taken into account, which we will try to put into practice in the process that will follow the process of the law. Correct, correct, be sensitive to the social and territorial reality of our country and include appropriate amendments to the bill that you have submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u259	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. To defend his amendment, Mr Campuzano has the floor for the Catalan Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u260	Thank you, Mr. President. We also welcome well-known and friendly representatives of the third sector at the state level. I must start by saying, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, and representatives of the third sector, that my group would have preferred not to have to present this amendment in its entirety, not so much because the discussion and the debate itself are not useful and allow us to advance in the knowledge of the positions between the various groups, but because we are surely missing the opportunity to turn this bill into a stable framework that will be useful to us all. And it is no less the fact that it was the Catalan groups and the Basque Group that were expressing in the House the main criticisms of this bill. That translation, Minister, is not so much a criticism of the entities of the third sector, but a consideration of the effective policies that the Government is making with regard to Catalonia and that they are also moving to the debate on this law, because, Minister, can there be a law that articulates the relationship of the third sector with the General Administration of the State be useful? Yeah, why not, obviously. And that there is a law that somehow recognizes the existence of this third sector can be useful? Also, it is clear that it is, but if this law is part of a policy that tends to centralize in all areas of public life, it is a law that Catalan groups look upon with distrust. And if we also take into account issues that we have been raising for a long time in this House, which are not yet resolved, are not resolved, and one has the intuition that ultimately this bill is intended to consolidate state control of the 0.7 grants as the ultimate reason for this bill, hence the amendments to the whole that have been put to it. Minister, we are not strictly facing a competitive invasion. The bill is already very careful to make it very clear, as it cannot otherwise be, that this bill cannot invade the social welfare competences of the autonomous communities, cannot affect any autonomous legislation in this area. From this point of view the bill is absolutely impeccable, but it consolidates a policy that understands that what is fundamental in the policies of the third sector is the articulation at the state level, and what the government's policy seeks is to strengthen the social and political articulation of the third sector. This, Minister, contrasts with two facts which are very objective and which go beyond a demand from a Catalan political option or from a nationalist political option. The strength of the third sector, the strength of the associative fabric is in the proximity with the citizens, in the proximity to the problems of society, in the articulation from above down, in giving vigour, energy and strength to the social initiatives of the local, the district, the autonomic field, the almost natural sphere where the sector itself is articulated. Government policy tends to ignore this reality and is obsessed with articulation at the state level. In addition, the third sector, if it is an ally of someone in the public sector, is primarily those who exercise competence in social policies, which are autonomous communities and local administrations. That is where that alliance makes sense in those policies that are peculiar to these administrations. In fact, the main problem with the constitutional discussion of 0.7 of the IRPF is that the subsidies that the State promotes in this area affect the exclusive competence of the autonomous communities. The third sector is with these administrations with whom it articulates its relations and collaborations. We are therefore faced with a subtle recentralisation that in constitutional terms we could hardly maintain, but which in political terms we must put on the table. I insist that, as I said at the beginning, it would have been easy with another policy to have created a legal framework that would recognize and articulate that relationship. It is important - and Mr Pérez Moya, of Initiative per Catalunya, has explained it very well - that the bill should act as if it did not understand the fact that 20% of the Spanish civil society as a whole, which is Catalan, is not recognized in what the General Administration of the State legislates, regulates and administers. He's not recognized. Today, the Taule d'Entitats of the Third Sector, which represents organised civil society, does not participate in the platform that you recognize in this bill as representative of civil society. No, Minister. If you talk to Mrs Guiteras and Mr Codina, you will be able to tell her, because it is no coincidence that Mr Tardà, Mr Pérez Moya, myself, and I am sure that Mrs Esteve of the Socialist Group, too, agrees with this argument that we are using. Nor, Minister, have we resolved the issue of 0.7 of the IRPF. If I may, ladies and gentlemen, it would also be critical with the representatives of the state platforms of the third sector, because they are being unkind to Catalan society, very un generous. In this respect, the Catalan society, the political parties and the entities of the third sector have offered agreements and, instead, you and the Government have always wanted to win by ten to zero. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] There's a majority, yes, of course. There is a majority, but in Catalonia there is another political and social majority. Even its head in Catalonia, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho - I was puzzled that day -, at a macro-meeting - at the first or second congress - of the Taula d'Entitats of the Third Sector came to proclaim the commitment of the PP in the transfer, at that time, of the 0.52 of the IRPF. I was perplexed. There is a consensus in Catalonia that these resources, which are the result of the solidarity and fraternal efforts of Catalan taxpayers, must be managed by the Catalonian Administration, and the effort. We divide these resources between the state and the autonomous sphere. When we moved from 0.51 to 0.7 we came up with an equitable distribution of those resources. We raise it and there's no way. The spokesman for the Basque Group said that he is tired, for he is tired; he is tired. But we will insist, we will not get tired enough not to insist on resolving that issue that contaminates this bill. Mr Minister, in addition to these considerations which are the fundamental political core of the amendment to the whole of which we have tabled, I must say that it does not know us well - as I said at the beginning - because Convergence and Union in relation to the third sector has been particularly active in this legislature and historically active in this area. At the risk of remaining a pedantic point, I would even say that the expression third sector landed in this House in the mid-1990s by the hand of Members of Convergence and Union. I remember that some of your ladies and gentlemen asked us, when we were talking about the third sector, what we were talking about; I mean the time of Minister Pimentel. Those of us who have been in this House for a long time have a historical memory and I recall a debate with Minister Pimentel in 1997 or 1998 - with regard to this expression - in which Convergence and Union already proposed policies in this area in relation to the third sector. And in this legislature, the first debate we had in the House was a reform of the so-called sponsorship law. We also put on the table a proposal for a restoration fund to accompany the third sector during the crisis. And we have advocated the reform of the Public Sector Contracts Act to encourage the recruitment of social entities that incorporate persons at risk of social exclusion or persons with disabilities into the labour market. We have put on the table a regulation of social enterprises based on Europe's most advanced declarations. We also approved in this House a motion by Convergence i Unió calling for the mechanisms of the FLA to also affect the entities of the third sector, and Mr Sánchez i Llibre argued a few weeks ago to reverse the government's error in tax reform by forcing small non-profit entities to submit corporate tax. Most of these initiatives - although some have been approved - have been rejected by the vote of the Group of the European People's Party. We are ill-advised to present this amendment as a whole in a matter in which we feel very committed and in which we also value the work of the whole world, also of state organizations in their lobbying action, which in defense of causes of general interest are effective - I see Mr Cayo, from Cermi, whom we must always congratulate for his insistence -. Moreover, from the point of view of a Catalan deputy, our expression as a nation among other characteristics has, since the mid-19th century, the existence of a huge social, cooperative, mutualist fabric, which during the Francoism could continue to develop, despite it, and which with the arrival of democracy has had an absolutely remarkable expansion, has been a fundamental ally of the Government of the Generalitat in the construction of the welfare state in Catalonia, and has been during this crisis one of the mattresses that explains the social network that has cushioned its consequences in part. All the more reason to feel uncomfortable in this discussion. Precisely because there is a pending agenda of issues to be promoted by this Congress and by the Government, we want to turn the parliamentary process into an opportunity not only to save that competitive framework that seems to need to save and resolve the 0.7 issue, but also to respond to real problems in the third sector. The minister was talking about improvements in taxation and sponsorship, which are very insufficient in relation to the needs of the third sector and are far from the sponsorship law that this House has demanded on several occasions. It can also be a good opportunity to reverse the effective practice of the Ministry of Finance, so that public utility does not become an exception in the functioning of the relationship between our associations and that ministry, allowing more associations to benefit from a favourable fiscal framework, as well as to be able to amend the Law on Public Sector Contracts in line with the directive that the Spanish Government must transpose in order to allow the third sector, in the field of social services through the concert, to have the exclusivity of managing them. Faced with the threat and in line, by the way, with a very interesting Third Sector Law, adopted in the Basque Country, Mrs Domínguez reminded me that a bill of these characteristics has also been adopted in Asturias. Let us amend the Public Sector Contracts Act to give these possibilities or let the autonomous communities and municipalities be able to compensate for their debts through the FLA mechanisms. The bill does not resolve this; it refers to conventions and results in a subsequent legal amendment. Let us also address the issue of subsidies or be able, Minister, to turn this law into a powerful mechanism for job creation through the third sector. In France, a few years ago, the Aubry plan was very useful for creating employment between third sector entities with a policy of incentives for recruitment by these entities. There is scope for this law to serve not only to consolidate a policy that we believe is wrong, but at least to resolve issues that do depend on the Government, that do depend on the General Courts and that should be resolved. I'm done, Mr. President. Mr Minister, we like the groups and how they put forward the draft laws, but if, in addition to the one they put forward, the one they put forward was that we were able to agree on substantive issues, bingo!, Minister. Therefore, perhaps today is the last day to praise your talent and I hope that in the coming days you will be able to praise the content of the agreements. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. First of all, Mr Lleonart has the floor for the position to be set, and for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. Third-sector organizations sometimes carry out commendable work that is actually the responsibility of the Government. Like many other sectors of society, they are currently experiencing a problem that has to do with the tight budget associated with the crisis and a fundamental problem of default that is putting many of these structures in a very delicate situation. Should some of these non-governmental organizations in theory depend almost 100% on government or other public administrations? Shouldn't they have another source of funding that has to do with their own partners with a law of sponsorship that we hope someday in some future and in some solid and deserved way to present the government, the People's Party or future governments? Should these organisations not also be safe from political vavenants because that is another problem they often encounter? These are questions that we have raised from the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, which I have raised and which I believe many of you will share with me. A study was published in 2013 on how non-governmental organizations were always supported by either party. The differences between the financing of the first ten while governing the People's Party and the first ten that were financed by the Socialist Party Government were brutal. What criteria should we take into account when financing an organization like this one that we are talking about here today? Shouldn't it be their effectiveness? That doesn't seem to be what we're talking about. This does not seem to be the case, and we believe that politicians are once again occupying a space that we should not occupy; a space that, as on many other occasions, should be occupied by technicians, those who know about the matter and those who can explain to us how resources are used and whether they are really effective or not. Do we really want to work to make these organizations efficient, to do their job well and, moreover, to save from political vavenants and the clientelism that is given in many other options? At UPyD we think we should try, but that is not what has been done in our country to date. So it is to be thanked - at least a little - that in this case the Government gives us the opportunity for political groups to amend their proposal, to contribute our ideas and, taking into account the experts in this field, among all groups let us help to solve a problem that is really serious and that affects very important organizations that, after all, are doing a job that the State should often be doing. For all that, and because we also know that it is a law demanded by the third sector, we are not going to vote in favour of the amendments to the whole proposed by some of the groups in the House, as we believe they would delay the legislative procedure too much. What we will do next will be to put forward amendments to the joint text, which will be in line with the creation of a third sector State observatory, to favour third sector entities with the highest favourable tax treatment at any given time, to include extraordinary items specifically designed to combat exclusion and poverty of vulnerable groups and, finally, to ensure that third sector entities have their own legal regime for public aid and subsidies, because their unique status and idiosyncrasy so require. All these proposals, which will be dealt with - as we have said - in the subsequent procedure, we believe that they will improve a law expected by this sector and by society itself and we will fight for them to be incorporated into the final text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u263	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Pérez Domínguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u264	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I greet the organisations and platforms that are with us today. I rise to this rostrum to set the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group before the bill of the third sector of social action and the amendments to the whole presented to it. First, I would like to welcome the fact that today we can discuss in this House a bill that was an electoral commitment of the Socialists and that in 2013 in this House we promoted to urge the Executive to make it effective. This proposal was supported by all the parliamentary groups of the relevant committee and is now materialized in this project, which has been discussed and worked with the third sector entities. I would therefore like to congratulate all the representatives of the platforms and NGOs who are accompanying us today in the rostrum and who have been carrying out this task. NGOs, and specifically social action NGOs, are identified with the services they provide to the most vulnerable groups; even more so in these times of crisis when they have had to reinforce this role because of the increase in poverty and the risk of exclusion caused by the drastic cuts in public policies and services carried out by the Government. As this is the most visible work and one that generates solidarity and empathy with these organizations in the citizenry, it is not the only one, and it is worth it that on this occasion we also highlight the others to appreciate in their fair terms the real importance of the third sector. The organizations that make up the so-called third sector are the reflection and living picture of an active, supportive and committed citizenship. They are organizations that have emerged from the social and non-profit initiative: civil society, individuals and organizations in their relationship with the public. If they did not exist, they would probably have to be invented and put into operation; something that would be even more expensive, because they have been working for decades. But beyond that providing role that these organisations have, I would like to highlight the fundamental role they play in confronting society itself, the public authorities, its representatives, this Parliament without going further, social changes, the recognition of semi-hidden realities, to make visible the other lives, the other needs, those of those who do not have a voice, but have less chance of being heard, i.e. the most vulnerable. The reports, studies and investigations that - whether or not they like those who are in government at all times - carry out these organizations that make up this fabric, this tumultuous network of solidarity and altruism that they represent, have served as a driving force in this country and will continue to serve for change and transformation. This and the constant and persistent process of social mobilization, of visibility, of political impact, has allowed in recent years the third sector - with tensions in its articulation, how not, with differences, with peculiarities, a different sector - to become a main actor in the recognition of the new rights linked to the concept of citizenship. That is how we have understood it from the Socialist Party and that is how we have worked hand in hand - also with tensions, with differences, but always with loyalty - with them and with them, with the organizations that make it up. It has not been the inertia, ladies and gentlemen, nor the passage of time, it has been the activism of these organizations that has driven the commitment of the political forces, and in this I cannot fail to highlight the accompaniment of my group and the commitment that we have maintained. This was the case, for example, when, from the Socialist Government, the allocation for social projects of general interest of the IRPF was increased from 0.5% to 0.7%, which today allows us to presume to all, also to the present Government, the money allocated to the organizations. Also when we made the Law against Gender Violence, with the impetus and encouragement of women's associations; when we recognized a new social right, such as the care and promotion of dependent persons; with older persons' organizations, with disability organizations, women's organizations, with EAPN, with all. It is no coincidence that for the first time in a legal text the definition of the third sector in a third sector law and its role in accompanying public policies is precisely in the one known as the Unit Law which the Socialist Government brought to this Parliament. The organizations that make up this sector have become protagonists, promoters and true transformators of our society and our policies these years. They are, ladies and gentlemen - and this seems very important to me - the demonstration that citizen participation is not limited to expressing protest and discontent. It is also manifested with commitment, it is that living proof of commitment, and hence the importance for the Socialist Group of civil dialogue for the definition of our policies and for our understanding of society and relations with organizations. Strengthening the organizations of the third sector, as this law claims, means strengthening the social fabric, I completely agree, Minister; because a society without a strong social fabric is an anomalous society, it is a depressed society, and that is not the society that socialists want. From our point of view, in the collaboration in this case with the third sector the public authorities have a privileged instrument, a partner to guarantee social rights and to continue to make progress with their diagnoses and proposals in the constant updating of the concept of citizenship and to take a step further in the civil dialogue and in the extension of the welfare state. That is why today we are faced with a state law that places in the centrality of our activity, not in centralism, this important sector without interfering in the competences of the autonomous communities, as the deputy Campuzano pointed out. In the words of those who make up the different platforms and organisations working in the third sector, the regulatory framework that currently supports them is not the right one for the role they play or for the challenges they face. My group believes that this bill will reverse this situation; it is therefore welcome. Having said that, minister, it is not the law that we would have done. Although it captures much of our pretensions and the pretensions of the third sector, it does not do so 100 percent. It suffers from practicalities and some issues that have already been raised here, even by those who have tabled amendments in their entirety. This is necessary in order to give effect to the object of the Act, which is recognized in article 1 of the Act. It does not specify how their capacity as interlocutor will be strengthened or how they will be promoted. For example, it postpones the necessary promotion measures and the reference to a future plan, which we will see when it is done, if it is in a year, or how and in what way. Neither are the relations that this third sector is going to have with the General Administration of the State, nor are the developments that this regulation to which you have referred is going to introduce with regard to the two instruments of participation that are going to channel these relations. These two instruments of participation already exist, so they bring us nothing new. What's new is they're gonna change it. How and how? That's where we have to keep moving. Similarly, it leaves unconcrete - at least, it could draw it up and, if not, go into practice - the financing and taxation frameworks, as well as the special characteristics of this sector as a preferred actor in the collaboration and provision of guarantee and public liability services. This is important, because they are working on it. In this respect, as we have been doing in various initiatives in Parliament, my group will introduce, if the amendments are not adopted in full today, partial amendments that will improve aspects that have already been pointed out here by other groups. One aspect is that of concertation. We must now move on from this European directive which allows us to agree, which allows us to move forward, to a directive which takes that opportunity and which we must not forget. Another issue is related to tax treatment. In addition, sponsorship is announced in the law. We're at the end of a legislature, and so when are we going to have that sponsorship law? Partial features are cited on CSR, corporate social responsibility, and its interrelationship with the third sector, but, as Mr Campuzano knows, in this house concrete recommendations have been adopted on this relationship between the third sector and corporate or corporate social responsibility that could be transferred to this bill, Nor, in my opinion, fits in with the profile of the third sector, which, in my opinion, is a necessary and indispensable collaborator, but which should not be charged with the fulfilment of public obligations. It is very important that this is absolutely clear. The public authorities have to guarantee public rights, services and services, for which they have to give the appropriate response, with the cooperation, which is undoubtedly essential for the third sector. What is even more incomprehensible, as other groups have already told you, is to ensure that this law will have no economic impact, as it makes us think that, beyond defining the regulatory framework of the sector, it will do nothing else. We can correct this in the parliamentary procedure too, since you have offered to do so. But despite that, Minister, we have the framework. To return this project to the Government today would be to do little favor to the third sector of social action, for which all groups have shown their respect here, as well as to the work it does. It would be an irreparable waste of time. My group is therefore not going to support the refund amendments. Given the framework, let us take advantage of the process of debate and amendments to paint the picture, define contours, add tonalities and give it diversity and strength. My group understands that. We will put forward amendments in this regard, hoping that the majority group, in response to the offer made by the Minister at the end of his speech, will allow us to improve the text that the Government has sent to this House and to have as a result a law that is the result of consensus. If I have some time left, Mr President, I take the opportunity to advertise and since we are in the time of making our income declarations, the IRPF, from here I would like to make an appeal to the citizens, that we mark that solidarity box to strengthen the third sector and the organizations that do so much in this country for each and every citizen who needs it, for the solidarity and support of all. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u265	Thank you very much, Mrs Pérez Dominguez. He didn't have time, but I thought it was appropriate how he used the excess. For the People's Group, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, I welcome the third sector platform and the social entities represented here. And I want, as a orensana, my first words to be to remind Isabel Fuentes, that orensana woman who has been the victim of gender-based violence, and to thank from this rostrum for the tireless work that has been done during these days by the Secretary of State for Equality, Susana Camarero, with whom I woke up every day at seven in the morning, showing solidarity to the family and to the companions. There is no doubt that mutual accusations have been heard during these days between the court and the Civil Guard, but in any case I would like - I never talk about issues of violence, nor am I in the Equality Commission - to have these issues deviated from the electoral debate. I say this because at the same time that demonstrations were taking place and it was said that this death had to do with the cuts, this lady's funeral was being celebrated and we had to decide between one thing or another, and we do women a little favor when we put the issue of violence in our political debates. With this on behalf of Ourense, the Mayor of Verín, Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much for being at all times supporting us in this tragic event. I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister on the work and presentation he has made in favour of the third sector of social action today in this House. Minister, thank you very much. On the other hand, I regret the role that certain parliamentary groups have played this afternoon. I think they have missed a great opportunity to talk about what the debate really was, which was the debate on the third sector. Ladies and gentlemen, for those who have not been here, the previous point was about football and we ended up talking about Catalonia, this is about the third sector and we ended up talking about Catalonia's funding. Out of respect for the platform, to all entities in the third sector, we should devote this time to talking about this, about the law affecting the third sector of social action. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Socialist Group and the UPyD Group for their openness and agreement. Of course, a great deal of work is beginning in the committees with the partial amendments and we will probably come to many agreements because that is the will expressed by the minister in the afternoon. The third sector of social action has always been present in our country, but in recent years it has experienced significant growth, having been a major player in the fight against situations of greater social vulnerability. The third sector is undoubtedly interested in the organised participation of citizens under the values of solidarity, equal opportunities and inclusion. As the Minister said this afternoon, in Spain there are about 30,000 social entities whose activity accounts for almost 2% of the gross domestic product and employs almost 636,000 people in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not an isolated action in favour of social entities but is part of the ambitious social agenda of the Government, a social agenda that through instruments such as the Youth Strategy 2020, the Action Plan on the Spanish Disability Strategy, the volunteering bill, which will be discussed below, and the next Comprehensive Family Support Plan are undoubtedly strengthening the welfare state. Therefore, the ultimate objective of this coordinated action is nothing but to place the citizen at the centre of our policies. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the action of the third sector of social action has been set up as a key element for recovery, and its action has become the hope of many people, especially those in a situation of special vulnerability. That is why we believe that the work carried out by these entities is commendable work, which deserves the support and support of all the public authorities, and also of this Parliament. The work of these entities has been carried out without proper state-level regulatory backing. That is why we are before a new draft law, an unprecedented text in Spanish legislation, the ultimate aim of which is to guarantee stability and promote the interaction of the Administration with these entities. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also confirms two existing bodies of participation, which will soon be regulated by regulation, the State Council of Social Action NGOs and the Commission for Civil Dialogue, which since its establishment in February 2013 have been an effective forum for meeting with the Third Sector Platform, and there is mutual collaboration, cooperation and dialogue between the Ministry, which currently has competence in the area of social services, and the Third Sector Platform. Another important content of the bill is that the payment obligations of the autonomous communities and local entities with the third sector, as a result of partnership agreements concluded in the area of social services, will be treated in the same way as other providers. It should be recalled here - as the Minister has also done - that the Government has committed more than 3 billion of the Payment Fund to suppliers to deal with the debt that existed with social entities, a debt that was putting the viability of many entities at risk. With regard to the four refund amendments tabled this afternoon, most of them in relation to competition involving a competitive invasion, ladies and gentlemen, there is no hidden interest in re-centralising competences in the social sphere or in any other area. It is clear that the scope of application of the law is limited to the regulation of entities having a state character, understanding this state character - as the minister emphasized here today - for those entities that extend their activities to more than one community or to Ceuta and Melilla. On the other hand, the bill is based on two competition titles provided for in our Spanish Constitution, article 149.1 and 149.1.31. With regard to the financing and viability of the third sector, as we have mentioned, funding for third sector entities has remained constant over these years of crisis. I have to remember that in the month of April eight autonomous communities, including Andalusia and Catalonia, obtained 683.4 million euros that have been distributed to 2,647 entities. Therefore, Mr Campuzano, no matter who gives the money, who gives the subsidies, who receives it and what they do with it. That is what matters and that it reaches as many people as possible, who in this crisis are being more vulnerable. That's the important thing. Coming here to fight and discuss that if the government has to give it, if the autonomous communities have to give it, it seems irrational to me right now, when we must be more supportive than ever. This is what citizenship requires of us, Mr. Campuzano. Finally, I have to say that we are faced with a consensus rule, in which different actors have participated, such as the autonomous communities, the FEMP, the platform of the third sector, representative organizations of civil society, and for this reason we have to fight, within our ideological differences, to achieve the greatest possible consensus in the process that begins today. [[Applauds]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of this consensus that the People's Party and the Minister are offering, to withdraw the refund amendments. If you want dialogue, start by withdrawing these amendments and we will open up the possibility for you to start working with consensus and dialogue, as the Socialist Party and UPyD have done in this bill. I would like to thank my comrades, Immaculate Guaita and Marvels Falcon, for the help and support they are giving me these days with this bill, and as the spokesman of the Socialist Group has said, once again in these fifty-two seconds that remain I would like to ask that, since all Spaniards are in solidarity, we now have a unique opportunity to be so also in this box of the income declaration, because they deserve more than ever support. We are emerging from a crisis from which, as our President Mariano Rajoy says, we all have to go out together. I hope that this law of departure, which is an unprecedented text, as I have said, will serve as a basis for improving it. It is a project today, but it will certainly be much better than what has entered this House if you withdraw the refund amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. Do not be alarmed because now I have to go back to the rostrum to defend another bill and I do not want to reopen the debate, because I also know that the members of the Social Services Commission have a lot of work this afternoon, and it cannot begin until we are done here, and I will not boycott my own laws, which are being dealt with in the Commission. That is not my interest, but I would like to thank the groups for the tone and willingness they have shown, in addition to meeting Mrs Vázquez's request to withdraw the return amendments, which in any case have allowed us to have a debate here. They have referred to the competition field and I wanted to tell Mrs Sánchez Robles that I know very well the historical rights of the outside territories - you invoked the additional provision of the Constitution - and I have already reiterated that we do not want to make any competitive invasions. There is a debate about how solidarity circulates in Spain; it is based on a shared solidarity, sometimes between generations, which is what gives rise to our pension system, which is a guarantee of so many things, sometimes over citizens beyond the territories. The 0.7 grant is an expression of that solidarity, and in my view it should not be intermingled with the handling of this bill. Mr Pérez has made it very clear what the importance and strength of the third sector is as an expression of civil society, and what its role and usefulness is. It is said - I said it above in the rostrum - that the third sector cannot be understood as an excuse to dilute the responsibility of the State; of course, nor to fail to comply with our legal obligations. Neither is he who does what the State does not do, and I don't like that vision at all. The law is brought here with a very clear intention, that we have to do it together, and that it is good that there is a strong and articulated civil society that the State should not replace, but that it must work together, have mechanisms of collaboration, and be legally recognized. The State needs to have this legislation and entities also to move towards that direction. There is a deeply political option that can nevertheless be shared, and that is what I like about this law. We can share that vision despite our ideological differences, and therefore consider the law as a fundamental element and a step forward in strengthening that civil society. Participation is not just of the political parties; it is very important but there is in society as a whole, in addition to that beautiful word of commitment, and now we will see it also in the following law. What I wanted to say to you in the end - also to Mr Campuzano, who does not have to display his social pedigree or of knowledge and initiative in the House - is that, since I have offered you a consensus and I think it is important for the entities and for all of us, and they have told me that they will be very ambitious in the approach of the amendments to enrich the text, think well. I'm an easy person, don't make it too hard for me. I think we can come to an agreement, beyond our differences of nationalistic vision or not, competitive or not. We don't want to take anything away from anyone. We want to add something important and beautiful for civil society, for the strengthening of Spain, and for the solidarity that so many people make. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u269	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u270	We are now discussing the draft law on volunteering and the amendments to the whole that have been tabled. The Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor for the presentation of the project on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u271	Thank you very much, Mr President. I rise again to the rostrum - as I said before - to present the draft law of the volunteer, whose processing has been joint throughout this future with that of the draft law of the third sector of social action that we have discussed before. It does not refer only to volunteering in the entities of the third sector of social action, but this law, unlike the previous one, refers to all fields of activity where the altruistic commitment of citizens is expressed. In this case, we are talking about more than six million volunteers in Spain. I think that this data can still be improved, but there are many people who contribute their time, their talent and also their vocation to improve the lives of others in very different fields that the law recognizes. The law brings cause that it has been two decades since the Law of Volunteering was passed in Spain in 1996, and logically the social reality in all that time has changed and has been enriched; there is a new dimension, we have all learned, and therefore I think it is a good time to give a new impetus to voluntary action through the updating of this law. In what concrete terms do we see that the reality that this law regulates has changed? We see that there is a new profile in volunteers in this year 2015, when we face this change. There is a greater presence of retired persons, pensioners and also younger persons or unemployed persons. There are new forms of action in volunteering that previously did not exist; in 1996 there was no such development of digital technology, of networks, nor was there the possibility of participation as that which is often done in a virtual way, and which is so effective. The world has changed very quickly and the laws also have to adapt to that change. There are new areas that previously were not as important or unrecognized and new actors and new spaces are also incorporated where people also find the possibility to launch themselves into voluntary activity. And the law also seeks to involve both companies and universities. In short, there are new and different motivations, there are new schemes of participation, and the law has to collect all those possibilities that have been opened up. Again I want to say that this is a law that I believe you will speak of in principle well, despite having tabled your amendments in full on this frequent and unfounded accusation to the government that it invades areas of competition. In any case, I hope that you will speak well of a law that also arises from a very fluid dialogue with the entities of the third sector themselves and with the same autonomous communities, with which we have naturally been talking and reaching consensus in different areas. The law, Mr President, has five objectives: to regulate the essential core of voluntary action in its various fields and possibilities of participation; to collect and establish the legal framework for voluntary entities; to enhance volunteering throughout life, regulating in a separate and distinct way the rights and duties of voluntary persons, and also the rights and duties of persons receiving voluntary action. The fourth objective is to establish the framework for cooperation with public administrations, and finally, as I told them to encourage, to recognise voluntary action by bringing in new actors who already volunteer, such as companies and universities. In this regard, therefore, there are numerous developments in the draft law. The legal regime of voluntary persons and the relationship they have to maintain with the entities are established, other areas of volunteering are envisaged, and account is taken not only of the activity taking place on national territory, but also of that which can be done outside our borders. What's volunteering? According to the definition of the law, it is those activities of general interest carried out by people who have a solidarity vocation, who carry out it freely without financial and material benefit, channeling this action through the accredited entities. Therefore, other isolated actions outside the entities, which are carried out for family or friendly reasons or by virtue of a labour or commercial relationship, are not considered voluntary. This is not considered within the scope of volunteering, nor are scholarships, non-employment practices in enterprises or external academic practices. The law wants to be very careful in determining this distinction from volunteering as an unselfish action that does not interfere with other paid activity or work activity. In fact, it expressly states that volunteering can never be a cause of termination of a contract or a decrease in a service, it cannot be. I therefore believe that voluntary action and voluntary persons are well limited and protected. From there, the law establishes the values and principles on which voluntary action is based, namely freedom, participation, solidarity, citizen co-responsibility, complementarity, autonomy, gratuitousness, efficiency, equal treatment, non-discrimination, and accessibility, detailing and expressing in the law the new areas of current volunteering. These come to be, in addition to social volunteering - which we have been talking about all afternoon - development cooperation, environmental, cultural, sporting, leisure and leisure, community and civil protection. It is a vast field of participation where people lend their time in favor of the general interest. Other issues have been introduced, such as paralympic volunteering within the category of sport volunteering, or animal protection within the category of environmental volunteering. He spoke earlier about the new forms of volunteerism exercised through information and communication technologies. I have mentioned that the status of the rights and duties of volunteers and persons to whom voluntary action is addressed is laid down. Volunteers have - and is collected here -, among other rights, that of receiving basic and specialized training for the development of their action within the entity, the possibility to participate actively in the organization of volunteering, and the right to pay for the repayable expenses incurred in carrying out their activity. Its duties include rejecting any economic compensation, respecting the confidentiality and rights of the persons benefiting from its action, and also the duty to participate in the training sections. Equality in access to volunteer status for dependent persons, including persons with disabilities, and older persons, has been sought and is intended to be given priority by law, so that voluntary action can be adapted to appropriate formats and conditions in accordance with their circumstances and personal capacity. There is something new that some of you have doubts about and that we can discuss, but it is also expressly mentioned the volunteering of minors since the age of twelve, as a way, and it seems to us important in the learning of solidarity and in the development of a commitment to the environment, usually under the decision of parents and guardians, as it could not be otherwise. But voluntary action, civic engagement, that social participation that we used to invoke in the previous debate, I think can and should be learned from an early age, and we are learning about volunteering experiences, even family volunteering, from even earlier ages that are enriching for all those who participate in them and who educate young people in that solidarity. We have also introduced restrictions. We have introduced restrictions on certain persons who for certain conduct cannot participate in voluntary action. We do so for the protection, primarily for the protection of minors, for the protection of entities as well. But the law introduces a ban, and that is that in programmes aimed at minors, persons sentenced to a final sentence for offences against the sexual freedom, trafficking and exploitation of minors cannot be integrated. You know that in the child protection laws that are now in process - and that if I don't get very involved in the rostrum you will be able to discuss this afternoon, when the plenary is over - we have already introduced, among other things, the development of the pederast register in accordance with the Lanzarote agreement. With this tool, I believe that we can also ensure that those who have been convicted of this type of crime are not related to minors in the exercise of voluntary action. And we, while respecting how it cannot be otherwise, the autonomy of social action entities have also included caution in the cases of people with a history not cancelled for crimes of gender violence, who are not going to be able to be part of programs that involve contact with families, women or young people. I think it is also a reasonable and protective precaution. Nor are people convicted of illegal trafficking in persons, that is, trafficking, or terrorism. These are the offences in which there is a limitation on participation, always taking into account, of course, beyond the prohibition, benefits and reintegration work, which are also contained in voluntary programmes; but this is naturally compatible with those prohibitions and with those cautions. As regards the compatibility of voluntary action with work, the promotion of measures to reduce or adapt working hours, always in accordance with collective bargaining, is expanded. In this sense, too, the Administration, with its own workers, will encourage them to adapt or reduce their hours, and this will allow them to participate in volunteering activities, provided of course that they have nothing to do with the replacement of the public services that the administrations are obliged to provide. I have already said that companies and universities are new actors in volunteering. Companies will be able to do so whenever their actions are adapted to the general interest, and their workers can join if they wish to do so without having to affect their contract at all, and of course voluntary action will also be carried out through voluntary bodies, there are many companies that are already doing this and we want to encourage it, and I think it is also good from the point of view of commitment and the exercise of corporate social responsibility in companies. And universities will be able to support and promote voluntary actions among the university population in the areas of awareness-raising, training or research. It calls for the development of intermediation between students and voluntary entities. In this sense, we want the centres to be able to establish academic recognition formulas for volunteering actions when the necessary academic requirements are met, and the values and principles set out in this law are respected. I therefore believe that we are looking for a development of positive aspects, of regulation, of the protection of volunteers; where we also set out the relationship that the volunteer has with the entity where he or she is going to provide his or her services, what are the rights, the limitations, the duties that he or she has with regard to himself or herself, also with regard to the person who is the beneficiary of his or her contribution, and in this sense we create a framework that is modern, that is up-to-date, and that greatly improves the regulation that we had before. I insist that no competition is invaded, neither wants nor wants to invade any competition, seeks to give a general regulation, seeks to improve a law. A great deal has been done with all the autonomous communities to prevent the emergence - I see emerging - of fears in this regard. It seems to me that by having this renewed tool of work for the entities that volunteer and for the Spanish volunteers, now that we have that data of six million volunteers that makes us the sixth country of the European Union with the largest number of volunteers, we can still make a leap forward and give more prominence to the exercise of that commitment by the citizens, and that in the debate of this law, and in the capacity of agreement that we can deploy parliamentary groups and from the government in this House, this constitutes a recognition of the need in Spain for civil society to be stronger, more participatory and more demanding with the public authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u272	Thank you very much, Minister. Four amendments to the full refund have indeed been tabled. We started with the Joint Group. First of all, Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u273	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, just a few minutes ago the fellow Member of the People's Party said something that is true. In many laws the Catalan theme is hung, but not because it is Catalan, but because we make a flag of autonomous competences, not just Catalans. We are talking about Catalans, but the debate can be socialised for all. I wish there were other Members - and I am very humble in saying so - who would do the same. I will be forgiven if I repeat, because Catalonia, like other autonomous communities, has its own model of volunteering, a consolidated model, which responds to the needs of the sector and to the peculiarities and singularities of the Catalan reality, which is the grace of the composite State, the ability to make every potential of each of the territories profitable according to its DNA, its social complexity, etc. Each territory has its characteristics. Our model, I think, as many models in other autonomous communities, is of proximity, which responds to voluntary provision through civic and social services, without economic compensation, within a framework of stable and democratic, non-profit organisation, all for the benefit of society. All this is a good part of what we call civil society. So that the degree of development of our civil society would hopefully be higher, but it must be recognized that thanks to civil society there are some clashes that are frankly almost destroying our social model. What is the purpose of this bill? At least if my reading is not perverse, and I think it is not, I believe there are clear objectives here: to consolidate a common model of volunteering for the whole state. How? Getting basic skills where they didn't exist before. The dumbest one makes watches. Having what they have, that is, a corrupt Constitutional Court in their functions, with magistrates on the side, they have historically been doing what they wanted, prostitution even the balance of any constitutional body of a composite State. You grant yourself basic skills that you did not have before, even pretend to have white paper to then make the relevant regulatory developments, with which we will pay a great garment - in Catalan we call it penyora - to put an end to plurality, to the diversity of models, because this of the diversity of models does not like. In addition, in the end we will end up being pure terminals or delegations of the General Administration of the State dedicated to the execution; in the end we will always stop at the same place. Please note that we had built a composite State structure in which it was clear what were the exclusive competences, which were shared and which were the executive ones. In the end, let's stop at the same thing: you have to limit - this is the second and third-generation perverted conception of what autonomic development is - to having the executive mandate of what is done from the central state. For us this is biting in cold iron. We started in 1991, when the Catalan Institute of Volunteering was created; in 1996 the Charter of Volunteering of Catalonia was recognized, article 166 states that the exclusive powers of the Generalitat are the responsibility of the Generalitat. Look, at the beginning they are exclusive, with which at the time we said what would be the evolution through the practice of dialogue and the institutional loyalty of these competences, which we originally called exclusive, then they were destined to grow and develop. Now it turns out that we are traveling in a regressive sense, even on issues that are of the most grateful because they are those that articulate the citizenry, even that citizenship, said without any pretension or classism, that perhaps it has more rooted democratic values because it devotes much of its time to volunteering. Then, I have the impression that it is not about taking advantage of the best of ourselves to develop skills that were already defined as exclusive at the time; now we are moving towards the mere ability to execute. Hey, we're not soldiers, we're citizens. That's what we're doing. I am speaking from absolute impotence, since you are very clear what you are pursuing. When some naive people tell us that you are - and forgive the expression - chapuceros, when they say that the Spanish right is very chapucera, I answer: no, you are mistaken, you work like a Swiss clock, you know perfectly well what you want, you know it, and you know how to do it very well. It's true, it's true. It is clear that by the end of this parliamentary term the composite state will have weakened a lot and I think that we will be far from that federalism that at some point even those of us who are independentists, I recognize, had believed it was the solution to the articulation of the different nations of the Spanish state. It's not despair on my part. I know that you know perfectly well what you want, you are doing it and the proof is that at the end of the legislature there will be nothing left, there will be no puppet with head, you will have disassembled absolutely everything, that yes, in your case, with a smile on your lips, which is always to be thanked. But in the end, Delenda is Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u275	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this voluntary law, as well as that of the third sector of social action that we have just discussed, was presumed to be crucial for the work of most NGOs and was expected to be a real turning point in the social sphere. In fact, they were an old and insistent demand from the social entities themselves. Since the BNG we want to acknowledge that in this case, both in the draft law on volunteering and in the third sector of social action, there are points that represent a step forward with regard to the current situation and that facilitate the work of the social entities in general, which in many cases have participated in its elaboration and made public their support for both normative texts. However, Minister, the expectations created with the approval of the preliminary draft have been diluting as the parliamentary process has progressed and criticism, especially of those most directly related to these areas, has been increasing. Some of the changes that have been made have ended up deeply disappointing the sector, which fears finally not being represented in this law, which is fundamentally criticized, first, the possibility that workers can be replaced by volunteers, making social work the perfect excuse to get free labor. The law does not state clearly or sufficiently clearly that no one can amortize jobs - no one, Minister, neither companies nor public administrations - with volunteers. Under no circumstances can you suppress or have the slightest intention of suppressing jobs on the pretext that you have people who do so for collaborating. Therefore, what must be an exercise in social participation cannot end up being a free labour force and the bill does not clearly establish the lines of separation between one thing and the other. On the other hand, in recent weeks the sector has also raised the voice to highlight the role of companies in this new law, which has not hesitated to qualify as a stranger. We can recognise, if we want, that responsible companies can be an important social agent of change and that one of the ways of participation can be the impulse of volunteering among their cadres. However, ladies and gentlemen, if it is really a voluntary task, it must also be made clear to me what the role of companies is and what the role of NGOs is, and this text, Minister, gives companies and NGOs the same rank. Ladies and gentlemen, from the BNG we understand that if this law insists that companies should encourage volunteering, it should be added that it should be within the framework of NGO programmes. That is, the logical thing is that if companies want to promote volunteering among their workers, they contact an NGO. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, it could be confusing and lead to conflict situations. There is another element, Minister, in the bill to which we refer. There is a prohibition on persons with unannounced criminal records doing voluntary work. Let us express our doubts about the legal validity of this ban, but in any case we believe that this particular point should be reconsidered. What we have no doubt at all is that the social entities themselves cannot be responsible for investigating the past of their volunteers, as established by law, because we understand that this is not the role of social entities and cannot be their obligation. Its role is another: to promote solidarity and social commitment. Finally, we must also refer to an aspect which is becoming the main mark of any government action and which at this point is already - as my PNV colleague said at the previous point - absolutely tiring. I am referring to the intrusion, once again, of the invasion of competences belonging to the autonomous communities. It is neither democratic nor respectful of what has been called a state of autonomy - which, by the way, is increasingly a state and less autonomous - than at every step, at every rule, the People's Party and this government put forward - no matter how much you say, Minister, that you do not want to take anything from anyone - article 149.1.1.a of the Constitution to justify ever greater interference and interference in the already small powers of our autonomous community. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this bill is - I insist - a new intrusion into competences that are exclusive to Galicia, and once again there is a flagrant violation of our Statute and the Constitution itself, which once again prevents - and has already become a norm of the Government - that the policy of volunteering is designed and implemented in accordance with one's own competences. For all these reasons, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the amendments as a whole. Of course, during the period of partial amendments, we will make our proposals and hope that they will help to improve the bill. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u276	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor to present her amendment of full refund by the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u277	Well, here again. I don't even know what to tell them anymore, because we return to article 149.1.1a of the Constitution. The truth is that so much recurrence means that they have no other attachment in the Constitution in those articles where the exclusive powers of the State are reflected. Of course, they are counted beans; once again Article 149.1. The Minister said that we make an unwarranted permanent accusation of the government's abuse of its use. That's not true, and I'm gonna prove it to you again. As I said, the draft law on volunteering affirms its competence in this already stated article 149.1.1.a of the Constitution. Once again, in the view of this parliamentary group, it is entirely incorrect since it affects, in this case in particular, the whole activity and legal regime of volunteering, which can also be developed outside the scope and obviating that the activity of volunteering is an activity inherent in each case to the sectoral regulations of the various competition matters. For this reason, State regulation can only be linked to certain areas or areas of competence, those - and I recognize that - in which the State has constitutional powers of competence. But what the state cannot do is expand its regulation in a quasi-universal and unconnected way of those areas in which it is not competent, in such a way that it unduly penetrates the field of competition of the autonomous communities, and that is what they are doing. Minister, I am not going to question - especially in your case - that there is very good will behind this, but you are not being respectful of the constitutional bloc. It is clear that volunteering is a sector that is - I was going to say suffering, but it is not suffering - undergoing major changes, but you will have to regulate in terms of your competence, not in terms of the competences of the autonomous communities; and you, with the cloak of 149.1, have the whole activity of volunteering. All the arguments I have used in my previous speech are, once again, valid. Here there is a competitive invasion and there is also a serious problem of legal certainty because in the autonomous communities that have competence in many matters this issue is also regulated. That is why we have tabled an amendment in its entirety. I was going to say that this bill is intentionally confused in its area of competence. I don't know, I'm going to think they've done it in good faith, but what's clear is that this bill allows for duplicate state action. In addition, it is expressed in the interpretation of article 2 with the first final provision of the law. Article 2 says - I will read it literally - 'This law shall apply to voluntary persons, to the recipients of voluntary action and to voluntary entities participating in, benefiting from or carrying out the volunteering programmes referred to in the following paragraph, irrespective of where the head office or registered office of the voluntary entity is located, whether or not its activity focuses exclusively on volunteering'. This, Minister, is a frontal collision with that first final provision, which is entitled respect for the competence of the Autonomous Communities. I am not going to go too far because, as I said, the arguments of the previous speech can be replicated, apart from the fact that I share almost one hundred per cent of what Mr Tardà said, but I believe that this issue must be clarified and resolved in the parliamentary procedure. What cannot be done is that, through this tailor's drawer, which I was commenting on little by little, they are leaving the competences of the autonomous communities in nothing and, above all, what I was commenting on. It is not a question of nationalists or non-nationalists, it is that it is the competence framework that we have developed and it must be respected, among other things, because these issues affect individuals, organizations and I would particularly like to highlight this issue of legal certainty. I believe that his thing would have been that the state regulation would have been of a supplementary nature with respect to which at the moment the autonomous communities have articulated in order to avoid those collisions that occur throughout the reading of the articulated - you read the Basque law and its draft law - and that they will give rise to situations of confusion and conflict. There are nine minutes left, which I hope you will enjoy in the Commission later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u278	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. To present his amendment for the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u279	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, some of the reflections on the importance of the role of volunteering in our country coincide with the debate we have previously had on the Third Social Sector Bill. In any case, from La Izquierda Plural we raise questions and therefore we present our amendment to the whole, because we doubt the adequacy and the timeliness of the bill submitted by the Government. At the outset, it must be recognized that the citizens of our country, in an organized or individual manner, play an increasingly important role in the design and implementation of actions aimed at the satisfaction of the general interest and the construction of a solidarity society. Volunteering is the expression of the solidarity and unselfishness of this citizenship, which increasingly demands participation. It should therefore also be recognized that the Voluntary Act of 1996 has been clearly overtaken. Today it has changed the profile of volunteers, the ways to collaborate, the actors that promote voluntary actions, motivations and up to the time and form that citizenship dedicates to social entities. The new law should carry out an update of the reality of voluntary action through a new indispensable legal framework, recognizing the contribution and development of the autonomous communities to volunteering in our country. It must be borne in mind that legislation affects - as you said, Minister, earlier - 6 million people in our country, that Spain is the sixth country of the European Union in terms of the participation of citizens in volunteering activities, and therefore any regulatory development must have the consensus of the entities and respect the essence of what volunteering means. Is it credible to develop a normative framework for volunteering without seeking social and political consensus? The minister has referred to the contact they have had since the ministry with entities in the sector, we have also done so, and the inputs we receive from each other seem not to be coincidental. In fact, voluntary entities are asking us their questions about the content and feasibility of the proposal. There is a previous question raised in previous interventions by both Mr Tardà and the PNV spokesman that the voluntary rules of the autonomous communities have been decisively contributing to the consolidation of the regulation of the actions of citizens who are grouped together to satisfy the general interests in the form of voluntary action. It is essential, it is fundamental, that the competition framework is implicit in political activity. The action of the Autonomous Communities has largely complemented the 1996 Act, to which I referred earlier, which has already been overtaken. The possible intention to turn the new text into a sort of basic standard for supposedly consolidating and developing volunteerism is surprising. Once again, the re-centralizing will of the People's Party Government appears. It is no coincidence that all the political forces that we have tabled the amendment to the whole of us are particularly concerned with this re-centralizing will of the Government, which at least exudes from the essence of the rule presented by the Government. The promotion and promotion of volunteerism, and here we must all agree because it is legally so, it is not our exclusive competence. In fact, it is legally explicit and there are judgments of the Constitutional Court and also of the Supreme Court that make it meridianly clear. There are autonomous communities throughout the Spanish State that have developed their regulations in the evolution, protection and impetus of volunteering. It was Joan Tardà who referred, in the case of Catalonia, to the creation of the Institut Català del Voluntariat or the Charter of the Volunteer of Catalonia. There have been other references from Galicia or the Basque Country in which the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia - they have referred to their own statutes - gives the Generalitat exclusive competence in the field of volunteering, which includes the definition of activity in the regulation of the promotion of actions aimed at solidarity and voluntary action that is carried out individually or through other institutions. After the analysis of the competition element and therefore of respect for the regulatory and competition framework, other questions appear in the reading of the draft law. The new law encourages the participation of companies and public administrations in the promotion and promotion of volunteering. A number of previous interventions have referred to this. From our point of view, this means that it encourages the creation of a sort of new volunteers, which is not well known who will ultimately benefit. It gives the impression that suddenly a multitude of people induced by the General Administration of the State or by the private sector will find a list of facilities and recognitions to be able to perform volunteering within their working hours. It therefore threatens to take up and replace jobs with volunteers. Regardless of what might be considered a law fraud, it would be a humiliation and I dare say a shame that jobs would be replaced by voluntary actions. There is no country to accept such positions or political tendencies that ultimately consolidate a reduction in jobs by being replaced by voluntary social action. We are faced with a new scenario where the personal decision to collaborate with social or other entities is no longer promoted by this law. The law favors a new model that opens the door to public administrations being able to regulate and recognize the corporate profile of volunteering by linking it to the Administration itself, which can eventually generate its own volunteering spaces or offices. Doubtful, at least. With regard to the will expressed by the current wording of the draft law in that which refers to the requirements for the status of voluntary persons, and in particular to the reference to persons convicted of a final sentence for offences, the non-incorporation of voluntary entities or the abolition of the functions that, in their case, persons who have been convicted of a final sentence if their criminal record has not been cancelled, should be a decision of the voluntary entity. That is our vision, especially when there are reintegration programmes in which volunteering is a particularly good way to achieve that goal. I believe that it was the representative of the BNG who referred to the fact that volunteering entities are not the ones to know or investigate the background of their volunteers. Lastly, with regard to expenditure, it was impossible to deploy the provisions provided for in the draft law without an increase in public expenditure. This implies that some of the measures envisaged in the bill itself are totally unviable due to a lack of financial resources, for example, the State observatory of volunteering or the interministerial commission of volunteering. The collection that the People's Party Government always puts with the excuse of budgetary stability that any new action does not require new economic endowments or increase of spending is a subterfuge to leave on wet paper proposals that can initially be well seen by the whole of the citizenry but that in practice are not viable, they stand still and, after the electoral period, no one remembers them anymore. It is therefore a project with inadequacies, without social or political consensus, ambiguous in the definition of the functions of volunteering and the generation and occupation of jobs, in addition to the possible usurpation of the functions of volunteering by enterprises and public administrations and the failure to meet the objective of reintegration set out in many of the public policies, sufficient reasons to present this amendment as a whole. As I said in the debate on the previous point, we hope that we can contribute with the partial amendments to improve the text and reach agreements, if possible. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u280	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. To present his amendment, and by the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió, I have the floor, Mr Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u281	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. To present his amendment, Mr Campuzano has the floor for the Catalan Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u282	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, our group is also tabling an amendment in its entirety. Here the reasons are complementary to those of the previous draft law but also different. We share the criticism that other groups have made about the competitive invasion, in which we will then go into depth because in this case, unlike the law of the third sector, the determination of a basic character through the appeal to article 149.1.1, in our view, de facto produces an intervention in the competences of the autonomous parliaments in this matter so far, in particular in the case of our status of autonomy through article 166. In addition, it seems to us to be an excessively interventionist, detailed and regulatory text in a matter where the important thing is to give freedom to individuals and entities once a minimum legal framework is guaranteed. The model of volunteering enshrined in the law departs at least from the majority perception in Catalonia of how volunteering should be articulated. Finally, we do not have the perception - I hope the debate serves to clarify this - that the law ends by resolving any of the problems that may exist in relation to the current regulation. And there, Minister, I come to a point. Some spokesmen have insisted - and yourself in your intervention - on the need to modernize the legal framework of 1996, but if you observe that law you will see two things that are not minor. It has been a law that in terms of the competences of the autonomous communities has not created any problems. It was very clear that the law affected activities of a supra-autonomous nature and whether there was any voluntary activity in the sphere of the exclusive policies of the State there was no conflict with the autonomous communities; it had been peaceful during all these years and had allowed anyone who wished to develop their own laws and policies without any problem. There are 16 articles that are rather short and scarce but that guarantee a minimum framework for resolving an issue that was not resolved until then and that addressed the issue of ensuring the activity of volunteering. Faced with this, we are now faced with a bill, I insist, which is extremely detailed in matters that I do not know whether a law of the State should be able to regulate. For example, should the minimum content of the volunteering programme be regulated by a law of the State? Minister, in Catalonia, a law on volunteering is now being processed with a certain degree of controversy on the part of the social sectors affected by this legislation. At the beginning of the 1990s, the Government of the Generalitat chose to do two things; one, to create an instrument of public policy, the Catalan Institute of Volunteering - some of the spokespersons have said - because it seemed to us that, rather than regular, we should accompany through public policies; and two, regulation, the International Charter of Volunteering. Since 1991, volunteering in Catalonia has grown, developed and operated without the need for a law to regulate it. Now here they bring a dense law that also threatens further regulatory developments; a law made from the logic, sometimes well-intentioned, of government bureaucracy that believes that social problems are solved through regulation or that citizens' initiative needs a legal framework as restrictive as it may end up being. A first consideration, therefore, was it necessary to present an alternative to the 1996 law, or was it necessary, on the 1996 law, to make some of the adjustments that could have been made in these twenty years? The second consideration is the competitive invasion. The 1996 law did not refer to article 149.1.1; it did not, therefore, introduce the claim to establish a common model equally assumed by all the autonomous communities, but that is what this law seeks. The 1996 Act did not seek to create a common model, but rather a legal framework for the development of voluntary activity at the state level. If the aim is to equalize the model of volunteering, we disagree, among other issues, because Article 166 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia establishes exclusive competence. Before that, Mr Tardà and I reaffirmed myself in that argument, the constitutional model is not the one in which the State defines the policies and the autonomous communities develop them; it is not that, because then the concept of self-government is empty of political content. The State can create a framework within which it is competent and should regulate, but it must not aspire to establish a common model. Why? If it turns out that Catalan society and the Catalan Parliament want another model of volunteering and have exclusive competence, can they not develop it, Minister? Moreover, if, through the provisions of article 17 (e) of the draft law, subsidies of 0.7 that affect Catalan entities must also be adapted to the common model, we are, in fact, in a process of refocusing this policy, of uniformity, rather than opting to give freedom for the autonomous communities to develop their own models. We're talking about law enforcement. The spokesman for the People's Group, Mrs Vázquez, speaking of the 0.7 management, said that no matter who distributes the money. My mother would be fine to say so, but you are a Member of Parliament and know that there is a competition framework set out in the Statutes of Autonomy and in the Constitution, and there is also a ruling of the Constitutional Court that states that in matters that fall within the competence of the autonomous communities the State can launch subsidies, but the management must be autonomous. That is what the law and the rulings of the Constitutional Court say, and that is what we are calling for from this rostrum. Therefore, in this case we are concerned. Some spokesman has quoted - I believe it has been the spokesman of the Basque Group - that statement contained in the law: Voluntary persons who participate in State-level programmes or who exceed the territory of an autonomous community will be subject to this law. There we may have some confusion between state regulation and autonomous regulation, unless you pretend that the state is the one that the autonomous communities should then replicate, when perhaps it would be reasonable for state legislation to have the capacity to regulate supra-autonomic programmes, as it did so far in the 1996 Act, and, if you wish, to have an extra character in what the autonomous legislation could not contemplate. Therefore, there is a fundamental reason for criticism. Some spokesmen who have spoken have made this clear. The philosophy of the draft law, together with that interventionism that I told you before, raises issues that at least a part of Catalan civil society looks at with some mistrust; for example, volunteering linked to the public sector, to administrations, an issue that is always delicate, very tempting for local administrations, and with the risk that volunteering, through public administrations, will enter the field of hiring workers. This generates mistrust in Catalan civil society, among other issues because the model of volunteering that we have sought to promote in Catalonia is very much based on the initiative of society, on the initiative of NGOs, on the initiative of entities, on entities and citizens, not through volunteering directly linked to administrations. Even recognizing the value it has in terms of promoting corporate social responsibility policies and, therefore, policies of companies that favour their employees being involved, the formula as regulated in the draft law causes some concern in part of a segment of civil society about the risk of commercializing volunteering or eventually turning it into activities very marquetinian but far removed from the main virtue of volunteering, which is not only the citizen's involvement in what is of general interest, the citizen's involvement in what is common to all, but also in strengthening the associative fabric. It is interesting the volunteering of those companies that involve their employees in civil society initiatives and is interested when alliances between NGOs and companies occur; there we have very suggestive and very interesting experiences. It is so interesting and so suggestive, at least seen with the model that in Catalonia generated a certain consensus, that companies generate their own volunteering within their company, minister, that the model underlying the bill does not end up linking with the look we have had since Catalonia in this matter. In this bill, if the real minister wishes, not only with the speech from the rostrum or in the reply, to be able to resolve the issues that concern us, there is room. Let us return to the competitive model defined in the 1996 Act, which has been peaceful, I do not have the impression that it has created any kind of difficulty; it has allowed, in what the State was competent to do, to be able to carry out its activity, to function, therefore, it would not make sense for the draft law to contain any reference to 149.1.1. In 1996 it was not present and that allowed such regulation, so let us leave it with that basic character that you have introduced, but let us give it, yes - the 1996 Act did not formulate it - a supplementary character; a supplementary state framework that effectively complements what the autonomous communities are developing makes sense, or even for that autonomous community that does not have legislative development in this matter that the reference law can be the law that the State makes, and we thin out the normative content of the bill. Mr Guillaumes will agree more than ever with me: let us be more liberal in the legislative approach of this initiative, let us not rule so much, because in volunteering we do not need to regulate so much, among other things because, fortunately, reality always exceeds the invention capacity of the regulator. Are types of volunteering defined? For in two years' time there will be issues that are not to be defined in this law. Is that going to be relevant? Probably not. On this issue of Public Administration, corporate volunteering or a question that has appeared in different interventions and that has much to do with the reintegration of people who have gone out of prison, let us be able to stop a generous look as the social initiative in Catalonia has, which continues to believe that these people need a second chance and that precisely by participating in volunteering programs they can have that second chance. Mr Minister, there are elements here that would allow us to reach a desirable consensus, because in the same way as in the previous bill we were sorry to have to submit an amendment to the whole, we are also sorry to have to submit an amendment to the whole of this bill. In the praise we all give of volunteering, we must emphasize the importance of social capital in the successful functioning of democracy and in the successful functioning of societies. Those societies that between political power, public power and individuals have intermediate institutions that facilitate the engagement of citizens in what is of all, in what is common, in what has to do with the general interest, are better societies, more democratic societies, more prosperous, more free. On this fundamental issue, as a Catalan MEP, I would like to point out that there is full agreement that what has always defined Catalan society is that voluntary commitment expressed in a multitude of initiatives, most of which have nothing to do with the Government of Catalonia or with municipal governments, but simply with the initiative of its citizens. That's what we're working on and that's what we're working on. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Lleonart has the floor in the position paper, first of all, for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u284	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. As we have outlined in relation to the Third Sector Bill, we also know that the Voluntary Bill is a law that is expected and desired by the groups concerned and that benefits society as a whole because the 1996 Act had been overtaken. This should not be the case because the debate and dialogue would have to be the usual thing, but, as in the third sector law, we again thank the Government for bringing us the possibility of amending its proposal and of bringing our ideas to bear and for helping all groups and experts in this field to implement the project they bring us here today. We announce that we will not vote in favour of the amendments to the whole proposed by some of the groups in the House, but we will put forward amendments to the article that would go along the lines discussed earlier on the subject of the restriction to be linked to programmes of volunteerism and of persons who have gone through prison and have reinserted themselves; for the non-amortization or replacement of salaried jobs either in the private sector or in the public sector; and for the inclusion, within a specific insurance of financial guarantees, of the tasks that the draft law assigns to the voluntary entities. We believe that all of these proposals improve this legal framework and we will fight in the process that is then opened to incorporate them into the final text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u285	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. I thank you for your conciseness. For the Socialist Group, Mr Buyolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u286	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the draft law on volunteerism comes to this Chamber, a law which unfortunately does not have the support of civil society and which the political groups see for the first time in this debate. We hope that at the end of the process that we begin today we will be able to pass among all a law that has at least the same support as obtained by Law 6/1996 of 15 January of the Volunteership, the current law. I therefore begin my intervention to stress the necessary and indispensable task of reaching consensus that allows us to have a law that is in line with the needs of the sector and that also encourages the participation of citizens in the construction of a plural, democratic, just and free society. They are progressing that my group will work towards maximum consensus. An example of this is the failure on our part to introduce an amendment to the whole, which under no circumstances should be understood or interpreted as making this bill that the Government is bringing to us today seem right to us. During the period of amendments, we will make the improvements that we consider essential for the text to improve and we will also provide effective work to understand the challenges facing the sector. The 1978 Constitution, in its article 1, clearly determines the unequivocal will of our society: 'Spain is constituted in a social and democratic State governed by law, which promotes freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism as the highest values of its legal system'. The work of volunteering enables our society to advance and strengthen a fundamental pillar of our democracy: a social and democratic state of law. In the face of individualism - no longer only of capitalist but also social court - where the confrontation of absolute truths leads to the division of society, volunteering allows and advocates a just and equal society thanks to its creative and mediating action. The participation of civil society through its voluntary action magnifies the democratic values of our rule of law. A democracy achieves its highest value through participation not only as a democratic right of choice for political representatives, but also as an expression of active and dynamic citizenship. Article 9.2 of the 1978 Constitution determines the promotional role of public authorities in removing obstacles to or hindering the participation of citizens. This role of the State is complemented by the expression of solidarity and unselfishness of voluntary action, thus enriching the values of our democratic State of law. Let me highlight what we have built as a society. Since January 15, 1996, when this same House passed the first Volunteer Law - by the way, the second law in Europe, behind the Italian one - we have made much progress as a country and as a society. That approval was a great advance for the voluntary movement in Spain. From that moment on we have seen how different laws have been passed in each of the autonomous communities, a clear reflection of the unequivocal commitment of Spanish society for the strengthening of voluntary action. During this period, four State volunteering plans have been approved, in addition to the specific plans of the different regions of Spain; seventeen State voluntary congresses have been held and a significant number of voluntary entities and individuals have been distinguished through the social volunteering awards. In short, the 1996 law has been an essential element of the momentum of the voluntary movement in our country. There is no doubt that there is a broad consensus about the desirability, opportunity and need to work towards strengthening volunteering in Spain, which allows us to state that the commitment we launched in 1996 to promote and develop volunteering has served to boost social awareness of the irreplaceable role of volunteering. According to the 2011 CIS data, there are about 12 million volunteers in Spain - that is, 31% of the people have taken voluntary actions on some occasion - of which about 6.5 million - as the Minister said, 17% of the population - have been volunteers in the same year. This leaves us still far from Europe's average, which puts the eurozone at 30%. This is undoubtedly one of the challenges that we need to take into account in the new law that begins today's debate. As for the role of volunteering, it should be noted that 46.5 % of volunteering devotes its activity to social action, marking a clear trend in our country towards improving the quality of life of people. If we look at age, we see that there is a high dispersion, turning our country's voluntary action into a multigenerational element. But we must not settle for what has been achieved so far, but we must go further. There is a need to improve knowledge and information on volunteering so as to further increase the number of people joining voluntary action. As was already done in 2011, which was declared the European Year of Voluntary Activities, we must take advantage of the processing of this bill to put on the political and social agenda the relevance of voluntary action. In addition, we must reflect on new forms of volunteering as an expression of the solidarity of citizens and not as a social instrument for replacing the actions that the Government is no longer carrying out in the social sphere. Volunteering, as my colleague Mrs Pérez has rightly said, cannot become a substitute for the Government's discharge of functions. Volunteering is a basic expression of human relations. The participation of citizens in social life enhances the fundamental character of our rule of law. Democracy must be built with the work of all, the impulse of public institutions and the participation of citizens through voluntary action. Without participation there can be no democracy. At this time of economic crisis and cuts in rights and freedoms perpetrated by the Government of the People's Party and growing individualism, a social impulse for democracy is more necessary, and this is closely linked to improving the participation of citizens. Volunteering gives our society a more open, fair and equal profile: a broad-spectrum democracy. Unfortunately, the introduction of this bill has not started well, as today we are discussing four amendments in their entirety. Moreover, it is a law that does not even come here with the consensus of the voluntary sector. A bad performance, Minister. It is not right to agree on a draft with organised civil society and then to present and approve in the Council of Ministers another draft other than that which was agreed upon. I have already announced to you at the beginning of my speech that our will is to offer agreements that will improve this law, but such actions are not a good letter of introduction. Today's bill has ideological biases that have nothing to do with the needs of the voluntary sector I have presented to you. We understand - and we have demanded it on many occasions - that almost twenty years after the previous law it was necessary to adapt it to the current reality, but, yes, the law cannot serve to divide between first and second volunteers; nor to draw a very fine line between young and selfless volunteering; not even, as is done in the memory of the analysis of the normative impact of the project, to quantify economically the action of volunteering by equipping it with jobs. I'm on my way. The action of volunteering cannot be summed up in an economic value of saving public arks. As I mentioned earlier, volunteering is not to replace the evil done by his Government. As the Economic and Social Council has stated, it is in the principle of solidarity participation that volunteerism finds its primary foundation, not in what you call co-responsibility with society. This law must serve as a new impetus; indeed, a social, political and normative, but also an economic one. Floral games are not worth the toast to the sun. To bet on volunteering is also to put this momentum in the General Budgets of the State. If not, you will be doing a weak favor for the promotion of volunteering and for all those who dedicate part of their time in an unselfish way to other people and other social or environmental purposes. We must take advantage of this moment to improve the regulations related to volunteering, to promote policies to promote volunteering, to put on the political, social and media agenda the work of volunteering in Spain and, of course, to improve the instruments that facilitate this impulse. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are going to work in this direction. My partner Martín González and the one who subscribes, as rapporteurs of the law, we will listen to the sector and to all those people who want to bring ideas that will improve the project. We will work to have a law participated by the citizenry, and thanks to the collaboration of the platform Quórum porto org. we have opened through the Internet a permanent channel of communication and participation of citizens. We bet on an expansive democracy that allows our representative democracy to be completed with a participatory democracy. I'm done. Our position is clear. This law cannot lead to a retrogression in the right of all persons, as provided for in the Constitution, to participate freely in voluntary activities. Nor can it be a law to confuse the spirit and role of volunteers and volunteers and, of course, this law cannot represent the great regulatory impetus that the sector needs to continue to grow. Let me dedicate the remaining ten seconds to talking about volunteers and my little volunteer experience. I started volunteering with thirteen years in the Red Cross, something that has marked my life, my way of being and my way of understanding society. A group of colleagues we started working there and I have to thank and signify in that volunteer work to two of my monitors who at that time taught me so much, José Antonio Sánchez and Pilar Serrano Esquitino; two people who taught me to understand volunteering, to volunteer and, above all, to work unselfishly for others. From here my little tribute. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Buyolo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Grau has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u288	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum on behalf of my group, to whom I am grateful for the trust placed in defending the draft law on volunteerism. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the speech that some groups have made this afternoon is just an anecdote of the parliamentary procedure of this bill. I sincerely regret that they think that this rule flagrantly violates the competences of the autonomous communities, that they consider it to be a blatant and unacceptable invasion of competition and, ultimately, that they believe it to be an interference of the State in the autonomous competences. This bill has been drafted taking into account not only the views of the autonomous communities, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the inter-ministerial departments, advisory bodies and experts in this field, but also the social entities and voluntary persons, the main actors in this bill, and from the point of view of competence. Therefore, after listening to the debate, I appeal to your political responsibility to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u289	Excuse me, Mr. Grau. Please pay attention to the speaker. Follow you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u290	Thank you, Mr. President. I appeal to your political responsibility to maintain the spirit of dialogue and consensus with which you were born during the rest of the parliamentary process. Ladies and gentlemen, returning to what we are dealing with, the draft law on volunteering, I would like to stress that it is part of the ambitious social agenda undertaken by the Government, which, through instruments such as the Youth Strategy 2020, the Action Plan for the Spanish Disability Strategy, the bill for the third sector of social action, which we have just discussed, and the next comprehensive plan to support the family, aims to consolidate economic growth and strengthen the welfare state. The draft law on volunteering that is being brought to this House today is an example of coordination and modernization, since, in addition to demarcating with greater parity the competition margins of public administrations, it addresses the changes that have taken place since the enactment of the law in force in 1996, through modern drafting. In addition, this bill, as the Minister has already pointed out, defines the concept of volunteering in positive terms; establishes the legal regime for voluntary persons and voluntary entities; includes the values and principles underlying voluntary action; regulates volunteering in all areas; promotes and recognizes voluntary action, bringing in new actors, such as companies and universities, and introduces certain restrictions on voluntary participation. This limits voluntary action to persons sentenced to a final sentence for offences against sexual freedom, for offences of trafficking and for the exploitation of minors, including those convicted of crimes of gender-based violence or domestic violence and those convicted of illegal trafficking in persons and/or terrorism. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a new law that seeks to respond to the 6 million Spanish volunteers, a new law for the exercise of solidarity, without adjectives, in accordance with the current social reality; a new law aimed at promoting the general interest, the common good, the solidarity deployment of human capacities, the construction of equity, justice and social cohesion; a new law for the effort of social participation and the promotion of solidarity initiatives, also among the smallest, the elderly and persons with disabilities; a new law open to the promotion of volunteerism, also from the company, the administration and the university; a new law with a state regulation respectful of the areas of competence of the public administrations, with a common core essential that promotes collaboration with the third sector to promote solidarity action and seek the greater commitment of the administrations. With regard to the four amendments to the whole tabled by La Izquierda Plural, Convergence i Unió, Grupo Vasco and Grupo Mixto, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, I would like to say that the bill represents a competitive invasion, which does not break down or interfere with the competences of the autonomous communities. Moreover, it is a regulatory framework that respects the scenario of shared competences set out by the Constitutional Court in its judgement 31/2010 of 28 June, while at the same time declaring that the assumption of competences by the autonomous communities in the field of volunteering is respectful of the constitutional order of competences. [[The lady]] Thus, a constitutional perspective does not prevent the exercise of the powers of the State when these compete with the autonomous over the same physical space, that is, over the same legal object. The law will therefore apply without prejudice to the powers of the Autonomous Communities. In addition, the new wording of article 2 seeks to be consistent with the doctrine of the High Court and should be read and interpreted in conjunction with the first additional provision and articles 17.2 and 18.1. Secondly, with regard to volunteering under the age of sixteen, article 5 of the present draft law recognizes the existence of dimensions where it is possible, with the necessary adaptations, to involve adults, children and persons over the age of twelve and under the age of sixteen. In addition, these minors may participate in voluntary initiatives only if they are expressly authorized by their parents, guardians or legal representatives, provided that they do not harm their development or comprehensive training. Thirdly, as regards the limits on access to volunteering, the Catalan Parliamentary Group makes a general statement which is inaccurate, since it does not reproduce the different assumptions referred to in the draft law. In this connection, it is necessary to specify that the first reference is made to crimes committed against freedom and sexual compensation, trafficking and exploitation of minors, where incorporation is almost absolutely impossible or, where appropriate, the suspension of voluntary participation with minors is justified. In the case of other offences, account shall be taken of whether or not they are cancelled, when the voluntary entity selects or, where appropriate, suspends the voluntary person. Fourthly, as regards the reduction of civil liability, the wording of article 10 and, in particular, of 14.3, it cannot be deduced that the level of requirement of civil liability has been lowered. Fifthly, the involvement of business and public administrations in the promotion and promotion of volunteering involves the creation of a sort of new volunteer. Article 21 of the promotion of volunteering in the company sets precise limits on entrepreneurial activity: on the one hand, promotion or, where appropriate, participation in volunteering programmes is subject to actions which may be classified as of general interest, are included in one of the areas of voluntary action and respect the values and principles underlying voluntary action; on the other hand, they must have the cooperation of voluntary entities, even if only for reasons of effectiveness of voluntary action. Sixthly, with regard to the fact that companies will find a whole list of possibilities to perform voluntary activities within their working hours, it should be said that Article 9(1) of the draft law provides that female workers and female employees and public employees may only engage in voluntary activities outside their working hours. Seventhly and lastly, as regards economic viability, I would like to point out that the limit on the increase in expenditure is justified, among other reasons, by the fact that the planned creation of the two bodies, the Interministerial Commission on Volunteering and the State Observatory on Volunteering, is merely a recognition of what already exists. Furthermore, no reference is being made at any time to the reduction or suspension of resources currently provided for volunteering. Ladies and gentlemen, for all that I have said, my group will vote against all the amendments tabled, but I repeat that I hope that the spirit of dialogue and consensus with which it was born will be maintained during the parliamentary process. I conclude, Mr President, by expressing the commitment of the People's Parliamentary Group to the work of the Spanish volunteers from the awareness of the important role they play in our society. We know that volunteer action has been built up as a key piece for recovery and has become a restorative balm for many citizens. That is why we believe that the work carried out by these people is commendable work, which deserves the support and support of all groups and political powers. Minister, I cannot leave this rostrum without congratulating you and congratulating you on this bill that the former Minister Mato initiated and which you have completed in an absolutely extraordinary way. My congratulations, Minister, and those of the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-13-CD150513.u291	Thank you, Mr. Grau. The meeting was suspended. It was six and forty minutes in the afternoon.
