ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u1	The meeting was resumed. It is appropriate to discuss the motions for resolutions submitted to the Government's communication for the general policy debate on the state of the nation. For the defence of these, I have the floor first, by the Joint Group - by the Joint Group, several speakers will speak for the time allocated to them - Mrs Barkos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u2	Thank you, President. Having clarified the time that corresponds to the speakers of the Joint Parliamentary Group in defending these motions for resolutions with which we somehow lined up the final line of the debate, I would like to begin by defending the proposal put forward by our group colleague Mr Joan Baldoví within this package of motions for resolutions. [[Rumors]] I give it to you, and from here I want to convey our affection and wishes of encouragement to Mr Baldoví, who, as we are told, is recovering satisfactorily. I turn briefly and briefly to the motion for a resolution tabled by Geroa Bai in this last debate on the state of the nation of the legislature and, therefore, to the final assessment of what the People's Party Government has been; moreover, strictly from the People's Party because the absolute majority has led to the policies that have been carried out during these three years to fall solely and exclusively on its responsibility. [[Rumors]] Geroa Bai's motion for a resolution is an omnibus proposal. Since the possibility of submission is limited to one, we wanted to make a brief review of issues that are particularly important and sensitive to us. First - and I begin from the most local point of view - by looking at the relationship that the Government of the State has maintained with the outlaw Government and with the main outlaw institutions, a proposal for overcoming inter-institutional conflicts. Firstly, what is most urgent to us is the reform in the corresponding terms of the General Social Security Act to make the unemployment benefit for long-term unemployed compatible. We also propose reform of the Lofca and revision and negotiation of deficit limits. In the rationalization of the major infrastructures I want to dwell on two fundamental questions: the implementation of the plans and the completion of the motorway of the Pyrenees - I want to remind you that it continues to penalize by way of the tolls in shadow to the shipwrecks - and the fulfilment of its own competence in the care and maintenance of the channel of rivers and river flows. There is some other initiative in this respect that I hope will have with the majority of the House, but I would like to remind you that it is not a new plan, it is simply a reminder to the Government of the State that its competence in this area - in the care of rivers and river channels - is generating at the moment, these very days, in Navarre and in other genuine areas of the State problems for citizens because they have not complied with this issue. [[Rumors]] The motion for a resolution includes measures for the regeneration of the labour market, training, industrial and financing legislation, etc., and I encourage your ladies and gentlemen to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution as a whole. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Barkos. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a point of order, a complaint of order. I have read the 106 proposals and, indeed, many of them seem to be the summary of an electoral programme. As you will understand, I am not here to vote for your election programs; we are in an election year and we should leave that responsibility to the citizens. In addition, some proposals have thirty or forty unrelated paragraphs and therefore a rational vote cannot be taken. At UPN we have chosen to bring a problem to this debate today. It is a serious and urgent problem that the media are dealing with today, which is very concerned about many shipwrecks and which requires an urgent decision. It is about the damage and the many inconveniences that are causing and cause recurrently every year the growths of the Ebro River. As I say to you, it is a concrete, real and recurring problem that has everyone very concerned and that needs for its solution the coordination of different public administrations: the three autonomous ones - those of the sister communities of La Rioja and Aragon, and obviously that of Navarra - and the concurrence of the State. Therefore, what we are asking for is a simple thing: to urge the Government to condition the middle stretch of the Ebro River to minimize the damage of the rivers, to do so now and to do so in coordination with Navarra, Aragon and La Rioja. We have preferred not to say what the ministry or the hydrographic confederation has to do in favor of immediacy; that is, we will have to decide whether it is the cleaning, the dredging of the rivers, raising the motos, building other new motos of channeling, cutting them back, speeding up the payment of compensation. In any case, what has to be sought is, with political will, an administrative solution for before the summer so that we can act already in the summer itself. I ask you to leave today, for once, the more political debates of ideology, to focus on this problem of the citizens and to demonstrate for once that politics, above our many and obvious differences, must also serve for something useful, real and close for the benefit of all citizens, in this case the citizens of the shores of Navarre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Mr President, thank you. There are many cases in which Asturias is marginalized by this Government and probably also by other previous Governments. The issue of rail territorial isolation is the best example of this policy of marginalization against Asturias. Let me tell you that, in any case, I have the privilege of defending Asturias from this state of marginalization from this rostrum and on the occasion of this debate. On this occasion I will refer to a motion for a resolution which seeks to ensure that the international Palencia-Gijón Corridor is financed by the Juncker Plan, the Juncker Plan, which, using union sources from UGT, promotes job creation, improves Europe's competitiveness and boosts infrastructure. Co-financing is mandatory - not as President Rajoy seemed to say yesterday - and the multiplier effect of the fund is estimated that 15 euros will be repaid to the real economy. I cannot accept the United Left amendment because of its conception of an analogy between high speed and high performance. They're not the same. Nor can I accept that of the People's Party because the funding line in which it intends to include this corridor is TENT and that, as we know, is practically obsolete with the Juncker Plan in operation. Let us make it very clear that we do not want to support this corridor and let us leave ourselves with tsarandajas. Six communities in October 2011 - Navarra, Basque Country, Cantabria, Castile and León, Asturias itself and Galicia - supported a protocol that urged the Government to support this corridor to end the high-speed north and north-west. It is simply a question of complying with this protocol signed in October 2011 by these six communities. We therefore call for its urgent inclusion in the field of the sixty projects whose deadline ends today, so that it can be financed with a view to this Juncker Plan grant line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mr. Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Greetings to Joan Baldoví. The Canarian nationalists bring two motions for resolutions, which you know. In two minutes it is impossible to explain them, but I can assure you that they have to do with two matters which are absolutely strategic for the interests of the Canarian Autonomous Community. One of them is related to the privatization of AENA. Canarian society, its Parliament and its Government have not spoken out against a decision that had no purpose to be accepted by the Community of the Canary Islands, for an elementary reason: the Canarians are the community that we rely on most of our airports. The reason is obvious: neither guided transport nor roads that communicate between the islands nor with the Spanish State. This is therefore an absolutely strategic sector. Is it reasonable that the decisions about the Canary airports depend on what a gentleman who lives in Thailand thinks of an investment fund which, legitimately, is intended to be lined up and gives a damn what happens in the Canary Islands? Well, we can't accept it. That is why there is a caution in our statutes, in Article 33.13, where it is said that in the event that the State does not fully assume the management of airports it must be transferred to the Community of the Canary Islands. This is what we are proposing here, this is what has been done and to that extent I announce that we will accept an amendment to the PNV in similar terms, because precisely the same is said in Article 33.13 of its statute. I have 24 seconds to tell you that the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands has a fiscal part that has already been approved and an economic part that is more relevant, the one that since the times of the Catholic Kings, with worse or better fortune, tries to compensate for insularity and remoteness. We ask for two things: the renewal of the REF, which is inevitable, and above all its compliance, systematically failed in all its aspects throughout the current legislature. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. You've seen that in two minutes you can say a lot of things. Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u9	Thank you, President. The motions for resolutions that we are presenting to you are aimed at restoring and recovering the social rights that this Government has been destroying by enacting laws such as Lomce or the law of gag and improving the living conditions of the citizens of Galicia. And our most fundamental collective right begins with the recognition of the legitimate right to decide of our nation and, therefore, because we can have our own capacity to govern ourselves without dependence. Political sovereignty would involve the achievement of the rest of the issues we propose: ensuring that we can live without impediments in our own language; having the capacity to invest the taxes collected in our country for the benefit of our citizens; being able to compensate our status as energy exporters at a rate of our own that allows us to achieve greater social and economic development; managing our own airports from a perspective of proximity and efficiency, our road infrastructures - such as the prohibitive AP-9 - and also our own network of railway infrastructure and services to have an internal connectivity and mobility that we do not now have. Our main productive sectors, naval, dairy, fishing and canning, on which thousands of jobs depend and practically our economic survival, need firm and determined policies to revitalize them in order to avoid their agony and enable us to overcome our growing economic dependence. Finally, we propose two measures of basic democratic hygiene: respect for the professionalism and labour rights of public television workers, without tolerable government interference, and the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the Alvia disaster, which will help to clear up the political responsibilities involved and clarify what has happened. It would be important steps for citizens not to lose their confidence in politics and politicians. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I know very well that you prefer to applaud the prohibitions of your - your - twelve judges of the Constitutional Court because you are irritated by Catalonia's desire for freedom, but we ask you to acknowledge the evidence that we will vote on 27 September. Recognize that we are a nation and have the right to decide on 27 September. Recognize that the elections of 27 September will have a plebiscite character, because you banned us from the referendum and because that is what Catalan citizenship wants; be democrats and recognize the outcome that can come out of the ballot box; respect the decision to exercise independence if that is what citizenship wants and the next day assume that we have to negotiate assets and liabilities, for example, between the Kingdom of Spain and the nascent Catalan Republic. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] It would be unacceptable if, when, in the last three years, the defence budgets had increased by 6.5 billion, you would not allow us to create three structural funds to combat child poverty, the same structural poverty, as well as the poverty that affects the elderly, usually widowed women. After years of complaining, Minister Mato finally agreed to the creation of a fund, but only endowed with 6 million euros, they paid 2.25 euros for each Catalan child. We also demand that tax exemptions be recovered for third-sector entities that cover their irresponsibility. I repeat, the entities of the third sector cover their irresponsibility, the maximum tearing apart the welfare state. Finally, we demand, I repeat, that the future free trade treaty, which States and lobbies are negotiating with absolute opacity, be submitted to a referendum. In countries that already have free trade agreements, this has meant the entry of United States companies to the detriment of their own and, above all, to the detriment of social and labour rights, such as the inter-professional minimum wage, the number of hours worked and the same freedom of association. It has also meant deregulation of environmental legislation, subjecting nature protection to economic interests, for example the generalisation of fracking. Moreover, you know that you are shielded by compensatory clauses, the same neoliberal ideological model, to the detriment of other social models, at least of a social-democratic nature. In short, we believe that it must be citizenship that decides in a referendum whether it prefers the American neoliberal model to be transferred to social Europe and the welfare state that the popular classes have built in the last eighty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Amaiur has tabled four resolutions in order to address the main axes we consider to respond to both the socio-economic crisis and the territorial crisis and the pacification and normalisation of the Basque Country. To Amaiur, as to the rest of the opposition, yesterday we were struck by Mr Rajoy's triumphalism. It seems that Moncloa syndrome has severely affected the president, since if this state is a leader in something it is in terms of unemployment, precariousness and submerged economy, and if in something the state has grown in this legislature it is in inequality. Therefore, in view of this triumphalism, it seems that his kingdom is not this world. From Amaiur we have proposed a series of measures to raise funds that come from social content and a shock plan for the promotion of employment. With regard to the right to decide, you have not surprised us either. During this year, the blindfold has been resold in front of the democratic demands of Catalan society or Basque society. While in the UK and Scotland you agreed to a referendum, you threatened and prohibited a referendum in Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not about the existence of different constitutional systems or a different history, it is only about political will and democratic quality. It should be noted, correcting what Mr Rajoy said yesterday, that there are currently constitutions that recognize the right of external self-determination. Here are the cases of Ethiopia, Moldova or Saint Kitts and Nevis, but first and foremost what exists in the democracies of the West is the way to seek ways of dialogue to bring the democratic principle into line if there is a majority in a territory that expresses a clear, democratic and peaceful will to choose its institutional future. Denmark, the United Kingdom and Canada have already done so. By the way, what is not a single case in which an entire parent State has made a referendum to decide the sovereignty of a territory of that State. Tell me a case, if you know him. Make it clear that the Basque people will not renounce their sovereignty. Dictatorships, dictatorships, republics, monarchies have passed and the Basque people continue to claim ownership of their future. [[Pronounce words in Basque]] Another issue that emerged yesterday is that of the process of normalization and pacification of the Basque Country. Following the abandonment of ETA violence four years ago, very positive progress has been made. All parties are present in institutions, no public office is threatened or escorted - which is good news - there are different initiatives, from different victims, for coexistence and reconciliation, but what have you done? Yesterday the president was angry after hearing that they seemed to prefer the previous situation politically. Major Oreja said that unless ETA, more independence and the problem was not ETA, but independence. You seem to think the same, given your obstruction and your immobilism. As I said, although we are better, police macro-operations, of a more media-like nature than police, continue. The Minister of the Interior warned the media in two before they occurred, the thousands and thousands of police controls continue, checkpoint, on our roads tensioning and generating danger, the exception measures continue with the Basque prisoners. Yesterday Mr Rajoy said that there was no reason to modify the dispersion of Basque prisoners, but there is. There are already three convictions of the Court of Strasbourg because the removal of prisoners from their places of origin is contrary to the Charter of Human Rights. You have already condemned Europe unanimously for the Parot doctrine, now you will condemn Luxembourg for not recognizing the penalties that have been served abroad and Strasbourg for the dispersion. You know why? Because you don't move on the basis of legality, you move on the basis of revenge. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The prisoners of the LAG, the Spanish Basque Battalion, the torturers, have already been pardoned by you, but with the Basque prisoners there is exceptionality or even illegality. Dozens of victims of state terrorism - so that they can see that there are more than one kind of victims - including Mr Muguruza, a Member of this House who has never had the recognition of this House; they have vetoed aid to his family, which is miserable, and by an arbitrary decision of the Government. Gentlemen of the PP, you are the Álvaro Uribe of the process of pacification of the Basque Country. Stop putting sticks on the wheel of pacification and normalization. [[Mr. Bermúdez de Castro Fernández: It's an infamy]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to send Mr Baldoví a strong hug and wish him a speedy recovery. After a dialogue of the deaf, which is what this debate has become, it is not gratifying and of course unproductive to defend constructive proposals that we know beforehand that they will be rejected, proposals that in many cases also contain a huge set of points that is difficult to read and much more to decide. However, we believe that our responsibility is to present and discuss them, and we will do so. [[The lady]] Let me, however, before going in and explaining them, make a very brief reflection, rather a simple point of what, in our opinion, this debate has been for the citizens. Mr Rajoy's Government has come to this Chamber more concerned about elections than about seeking agreements and complicity between the various parliamentary groups, in order to address the many political and economic problems that exist. It has not come to dialogue, it has come to sell its book, to make proposals that at the beginning of the legislature would have been credible and many of them certainly necessary but that today are the result of the political situation in which we are less than a year from the configuration of a new Parliament, a Parliament that probably changes in a very radical way. Let us hope, as my group's spokesman pointed out yesterday, that this will come in closer proximity and political collaboration between the parliamentary groups and the Government to deal with the many problems we have, especially to overcome the economic crisis and to ensure that those who are experiencing the worst are gradually recovering, albeit with great effort, part of what they have lost over the past few years. Following the instructions of the House, our parliamentary group has tabled fifteen motions for resolutions with the aim of agreeing their contents with the rest of the House so that they can be adopted. So we leave, in spite of everything, in a constructive spirit. We do not believe that electoral positions should prevent us from resolving issues that we consider relevant. As I did last year, they will allow me to classify our proposals, roughly, into three groups: the first of them includes demands for areas and issues that are still to be transferred. It should be recalled that, after thirty-five years since the adoption of the Statute of Gernika, very important matters still remain to be transferred, including the economic system of social security, and that, given its size, we do not include it in our proposals; there are four proposals in this section. In the second paragraph - with three proposals - we incorporate some of the actions that need to be carried out in Euskadi and whose execution is the responsibility and is exclusively in the hands of Mr Rajoy's Government and his political will. The third - with eight proposals - includes subjects of general interest whose involvement in Euskadi is variable but whose characteristic is precisely that its approval would affect beyond the borders of Euskadi. Among the proposals of a competitive nature, we once again call for the transfer of railways, in accordance with Article 10, paragraph 32, of the Statute of Autonomy. I do not know what further arguments need to be put forward in the article of the Statute of Autonomy, but we urge that the Government should not include in the catalogue of lines and sections of the network of general interest, which is under preparation, all the sections of the networks which run through the territory of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, since this would make it difficult to transfer them; transfer which we request from the ground transport by rail when it runs entirely through the territory of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, while calling for the process to be started as soon as possible. Similarly, by appealing to Article 10.14 of the Statute, we call for the transfer of exclusive competence in the field of prison structures and the competence to implement prison policy under statutory provisions. We demand or request, because we consider it more than reasonable, that, in accordance with the Statute of Gernika, the reduction or withdrawal of the State security forces in the Basque Country be carried out. Its functions are assessed: aliens, passports, port surveillance, airport, etc., and for these functions, gentlemen of the Government, Madam Vice-President, there is no need for 4,000 troops in the Basque Country. Fortunately, ETA has ceased to be a security and law and order issue that his Government had in its day to maintain a high number of police and civilian guards in Euskadi. Now they have no excuses, ETA is not, fortunately, a threat and many officers who were escorting today have no task to perform. Retreat the security forces, let the Ertzaintza carry out its task and use the surplus security forces that are in Euskadi in the rest of the state, which surely have many needs. Do not use, as they do, the State security forces in order to show that they are present in Euskadi, often with ineffective controls and activities for not calling them ridiculous. Let us be serious, act as mature and responsible people, and reduce the strength of the security forces to the real needs for the exercise of their assigned powers. Another motion for a resolution is what we call intercities. As you know, among the features that the new Basque railway network will have is that of connecting the three Basque capitals whose metropolitan areas account for 72% of the Basque population, as well as hosting the ports of Bilbao and Pasaia, the logistics platforms of Lezo, Jundiz and Arasur, as well as the network of airports composed of Bilbao, Gasteiz and Hondarribia. It should not be noted that the key to the successful implementation of such a complex infrastructure is in proper strategic planning. We therefore urge the Government to start work on the development and operation of the Basque railway in a joint manner between the central and Basque administrations, so that the Basque Autonomous Community will be responsible for providing intercity services between the three Basque capitals when their construction is completed and they will be put into service as domestic services to the Basque Country. In this regard, we call for a basic agreement to ensure that rail transfers from internal services to the community are complemented by the inclusion of the above-mentioned services connecting the three capitals of the autonomous community with the current high-speed general interest network under construction. In the second of the paragraphs we include, as I said to you, three motions for resolutions which affect Euskadi and which are of great interest to Basques and Basques, and whose solution is exclusively in the hands of the PP Government. Give us back, gentlemen of the PP, the material seized in the war. As a result of the looting, expoliation and expropriation, many objects were stolen from political parties and trade unions that defended republican legality. Today they are located and identified in various museums and archives of the State. For justice, we request the return of objects, symbols, flags and materials belonging to institutions, political parties and trade union centres to their legitimate owners. In particular, we request the immediate return of the Batzoki flag of Gautegiz de Arteaga located in the Documentary Center of Historical Memory, within the National Delegation of Documentary Services section of the Presidency of the Government, with the symbol flag 28 and registered as the flag of the PNV in Arteaga. I think more identification is impossible to know which one is. We also demand the return to the Basque Nationalist Party of an ikurriña with the anagram JEL, distinctive of the battalions of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Civil War, which is located in the Museum of the Army of Ceuta. It does not cost them anything and they will work together to restore a minimum part of the enormous evils created by the Civil War. We talked a lot about the high speed train and the Basque Y and we've made less progress. Now it seems that the Government, the Minister of Development, has committed itself to making it operational in 2019. I am not going to repeat the importance of this infrastructure because I think we have done it repeatedly and I think we have said everything. There is our group's spokesperson, who once in a while defends this position. That is why we only want facts and commitments, and that is why we urge the government to ratify the commitment made by the minister to the media on the 28th day of the completion of the Basque Railway Y by 2019. That is why we also ask you to present to us within one month the budgetary and technical planning that will make it possible. We're not worth the words, we need concrete results. This seems to be denied by the PP, in accordance with the amendment tabled to our proposal, an amendment which decafeates the initiative and which we cannot accept. We also ask for a boost to the Burgos-Vergara-Vitoria stretch so that the operation is effective. I think they should be more committed to the project. We want everything tied and well bound to avoid the risks that may arise from a change of government. Before the end of the next parliamentary term, I would like to come to Madrid from Bilbao at high speed. The third proposal in this paragraph is also not new: it concerns the closure of the Garoña nuclear power plant. We have spoken on numerous occasions about this and always in the same direction, calling for its definitive closure and calling for the development of an economic dynamism plan for the area affected by this closure. Neither for security nor for economy nor for security of supply is it justified that it continues to work, and much less if we take into account that it is not even of interest to its owners and that all parliamentary groups in Euskadi have been in favour of closure. What else can I tell you? They voted in favour of this proposal and that the Government should decide to close an obsolete plant that carries risks. In the third paragraph, in that of the proposals of general interest with different implications in Euskadi, but not only in Euskadi, we have tabled eight motions for resolutions. One relating to the unit with the aim of recovering the budgetary appropriations from which the Central Government of the State has unilaterally been disbanded. The cuts and sacrifices that have taken place during these years of crisis have affected the issue of dependency, the fourth pillar of the welfare state, leaving many people who have or were entitled to it without attention. It was not necessary to have cut in these sensitive games for many people on many occasions needed, but since it has been so and it seems that the economy is starting to get better, it is time to recover the time and resources lost to give a new boost to dependence and its effects reach those who are suffering them as soon as possible. It would be a good sign, gentlemen of the PP, even from the electoral point of view, that you seem to be so concerned about what we have heard these days in the House. We are also extremely concerned about youth employment because it is a major problem. We ask that the allocation between the autonomous communities of the amount allocated by the European Social Fund to the Spanish State be carried out in accordance with the competences of the autonomous communities in the field of active policies. It is not logical that Euskadi should have allocated only 23 million of the 1.8 billion euros coming from Europe. In addition, in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre this allocation should be made by means of the concert mechanism, reducing the amount of quota to be paid to the State. Another proposal seeks to respect the will of the neighbours of Treviño and Villaverde as regards the belonging of their municipalities or enclaves to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. Vote for it, see no expansionist desire for dangerous nationalists who intend to expand their domains. We only want, first of all, to respect the will of the inhabitants of these enclaves, which they demand to be able to access fundamentally with full right to all the facilities of public services such as education, health, etc., whose benefits are carried out more effectively and efficiently from Euskadi, given the physical location of these enclaves, to facilitate their lives, which is essentially the subject of this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the People's Party, we said it yesterday in the debate and we reiterate it here today, the violence of ETA has ended, fortunately. The situation is not the same as it was a few years ago. Move, facilitate peace and coexistence in Euskadi. It doesn't cost money, you just have to have political will. If you want, we'll ask you please. Those of us who have spent our whole lives under the shadow of terrorism I think we deserve it Be brave, move on this matter. Reorient the policy towards improving coexistence, reorient the prison policy and demand in this House that ETA disarm and dissolve it quickly, effectively and completely. That is what our motion for a resolution says. Other proposals are in the sense of repealing the precepts that constitute...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u16	Mr. Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u17	... a derogation order, repealing the reform of universal jurisdiction under Organic Law 1/2014 of 13 March, and applying in its own terms Framework Decisions 2008/675 and 2008/315, consolidating the criterion that the period of time spent in other countries of the European Union which had been imposed for acts punishable in accordance with Spanish law in force at the date of its commission should be discounted. Like a wink...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u18	Mr. Azpiazu, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u19	I'm done, Madam President. As the last motion for a resolution, we would like to urge the Government to recognize the existence of the Basque and Catalan nations as distinct from the Spanish one and to encourage the necessary constitutional changes. Yesterday in the debate was already defended by our spokesman and, therefore, I will not reiterate the arguments that are well known. We know that they are not for the work and that even yesterday the Constitutional Court declared the Catalan consultation law illegal. It is therefore not a good precedent, but we are absolutely convinced that peaceful coexistence, if that is what is desired, will require firm progress in the future in this area. We must believe in politics and use it for the benefit of the citizens. Many Catalan and Basque citizens are asked to do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u20	Mr. Azpiazu, you have exceeded your time by far. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u21	That is all, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u22	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Parliamentary Group Union for Progress and Democracy, Mr Anchuelo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u23	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of my group, I would also like to start with a memory for Mr Baldoví and wishing for his early restoration. In the first two sessions of this State of the Nation debate, we have been asked to present our diagnosis of what we thought were the main evils or problems that afflict our country. We are now being asked at this third and final meeting to present our motions for resolutions. That is what I have the honour of doing on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy. [[Rumors]] We have tabled fifteen motions for resolutions, which for your best understanding can be grouped into three blocks. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u24	Wait a minute, Mr. Chanquelo. Please, please, if you have conversations, be in a tone that allows us to hear the speaker. Go on, Mr. Hook.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u25	Thank you, Madam President. He said that our proposals can be grouped into three blocks. A first group are measures of democratic regeneration, measures to revitalize, to increase the quality of our democracy. A second group are measures of economic impulse and a third group are social measures, so as not to leave behind those groups that have been most affected by the economic crisis in our country. I will start with the measures of democratic regeneration, the measures we propose to improve the quality of our democratic system. I would like to recall that when the parliamentary term democratic regeneration began, it was pronounced by my group alone and others were almost outraged that the democratic quality had to be improved, because they saw it as an attack on politics. Three years later the vocabulary of democratic regeneration has spread, but much remains to be done, as our fellow citizens know. The basis of democracy is the vote and for people to vote they need to know that their vote is as good as that of their neighbour - the first question - and that in Spain does not happen, it still does not happen. On the contrary, measures have been taken, such as in Castile-La Mancha, to make the problem even worse. In the last general elections my group had 1.2 million votes, more or less like CiU, and it does not have the Members of CiU; it has the same Members as the PNV, which had a quarter of the votes, with all respect for these formations. It is not my group, it is the citizens' vote, which is not the same. A person's vote is not worth the same as his neighbor's. That is why we propose - following a good report from the 2009 Council of State - to move towards a more proportional system, a reform of the Electoral Law to go to a more proportional system so that each person's vote is worth the same as that of his neighbour. We also propose unblocked lists because not only does our vote have to be as good as that of the neighbour, we have to have the feeling that there is real decision-making capacity, that the citizens who vote can alter the order of the candidates on the list who vote. That would encourage democratic participation. We want to point out the situation of Spanish residents abroad. There are more than a million Spaniards living abroad and in 2011 the way in which they can vote was changed, so that it has been made extraordinarily difficult. This has led to that million Spaniards who are outside Spain who in the 2008 elections voted in their third part, in the 2011 elections voted in less than 5% of the cases. We must re-facilitate our compatriots living abroad to participate in the general elections. Voting is a pillar of democracy but another pillar cracked in our country are political parties, intermediaries between those voters and institutions. Political parties have to take primary schools seriously, it can't be an exercise subject to what the polls later say or it can't be something that isn't done because the candidates are chosen by finger. Progress Union and Democracy has held more than 800 primary procedures in its seven years of existence and we believe that in order to facilitate the internal democracy of the parties, the election of candidates through primary elections should be required by law. We also propose to further prosecute the illegal financing of parties, making the illicit enrichment of public office a criminal offence in the Criminal Code. No more situations like Mr Bárcenas's in our country. Pilar also of democracy is justice, and justice needs independence, we need separation of powers. But how can we talk about the separation of powers in our country if the General Council of the Judiciary is divided by quotas between parties? A division that only Union Progress and Democracy did not want to be part of. We propose exactly what the majority group was proposing in its electoral programme: that judges and magistrates elect the members of the judiciary and end this division by quotas of parties that seriously threatens - not to say that it makes impossible - judicial independence. There are other almost medieval waste that hinders the action of justice and the separation of powers; I mean the stumbling blocks. There are more than 10,000 outbursts in our country, which is not happening in any country in our environment; that number must be drastically reduced. I also mean pardons. There can be no pardons in cases of political corruption and when there are pardons it will have to be transparent and with some kind of parliamentary control because otherwise, the action of the justice system is seriously disturbed. Justice also needs means but not through these judicial fees that prevent citizens from accessing judicial guardianship and whose collection is not used to improve justice. In fact, on UPyD's question we know that you don't even know what it's used for or what it's known for, but you don't want to say what it's used for. Therefore, not at judicial rates but more means to end delays in justice and especially in the fight against political corruption - prosecution and the National Court -. We propose a block of measures, as you see, of democratic regeneration to promote participation and the separation of powers. The second group of measures is designed to boost our economy, which continues to need it. We propose, first of all, as we have said several times in this House, that the rescues of autonomous communities and municipalities be conditioned because if Europe conditions the Member States when it rescues them - and although we knew it when they rescued us - it has the same meaning that the rescued communities and municipalities have some kind of conditions. And we don't put any conditions in place for screwing up communities and municipalities. The type of conditions we want have to do with the fact that cuts are focused on superfluous spending and this allows for quality and similar health and education throughout the national territory, which is not cut in the essentials, which is cut in the superfluous. This conditioning would make it possible to achieve something that has not been done, which is a real reform of public administrations because today, although it is said that there is no problem of expenditure, there is a problem of composition of public expenditure in Spain, there is a lot of unnecessary expenditure. We still have more than 8,000 municipalities in their vast majority very small, with less than 1,000 inhabitants. These municipalities can be merged, achieving savings and better services for their citizens. To this day they are still alive and collecting the provincial parliaments, with an annual expenditure of 6 billion euros and an unknown utility. To this day the communities maintain their economic and social councils, their courts of accounts, their advisory councils. Do you remember the indignation provoked by the Madrid Consultative Council? For it is a small grain of sand in the desert of these unnecessary organisms, as well as non-administrative entities, that proliferate by thousands at the local and autonomous level. We calculate the possible savings by 40 billion euros, that is, four comprehensive plans to combat child poverty, four times the funds needed to end child poverty in our country. We also believe that the retributive system of administrations must be ordered. Reforms are pending because they have been wronged. For example, tax reform; our tax reform is not yours. We must reduce the burdens of the middle and working classes, we must lower the cultural and educational VAT, we must make those who earn less than EUR 14,000 do not pay IRPF, we must lower taxes to the middle and working classes, but we must make those who evade the payment of taxes pay and fight against tax fraud; 70 billion euros stop collecting every year in our country in part important because the Tax Agency does not have sufficient resources. They've made an energy reform, but it's not ours either. We want a reform that takes into account the cost of production, also environmental criteria and fights energy poverty. They have made a labor reform that is certainly not ours. In the face of precariousness, we continue to defend the indefinite contract as a normal form of contracting. Contracts, with very few exceptions, have to be undefined by default and to put an end to this situation which, above all, our young people have to have contracts for forty days, for three weeks, which prevent training, emancipation and prevent accidents at work. To this end, compensation must initially be similar to that of temporary and growing contracts in order, in four or five years, to reach that of indefinite contracts. I would like to stress the last block of measures, social measures so that our abandoned citizens will cease to be so, so that those affected by the crisis will cease to be abandoned. There are three million unemployed without benefits. We propose a program that gives them coverage similar to that of RAI but for three years, not as the Plan Prepara, three years with a similar amount to that of RAI, with a first state level, making RAI accessible to children under forty-five years, and with a second autonomous level, autonomous minimum incomes lasting two years and giving similar amounts of coverage to RAI; three years of protection to these abandoned people. We propose not to abandon our three million children in poverty or exclusion, to launch the proposals of Caritas, Unicef, Save the Children; a programme to combat child poverty of €9 billion, because here we need billions of euros, not tens of millions as our Government implements. We do not want to leave the hundreds of thousands of scams left behind by the prefernts and the actions. In the Bankia case we are proving it with facts, 360,000 shareholders who will be able to recover their investment thanks to the judicial process initiated by UPyD. But instead of hindering this, why don't you promote it? We do not want to leave those who suffer evictions abandoned. That is why we proposed a second chance law three years ago, which, if it had worked during these three years, would have prevented many families from having suffered the situations they have suffered. We are waiting to see the small letter of his royal decree, but we have just begun because his amendments indicate that they do not want to contemplate, for example, any paid-up procedures. I will end by referring to the two pillars of our welfare state: health and education. We want a similar high-quality health care throughout the national territory and that those without papers living among us have access to that health care. As far as the system of dependence is concerned, the long hopes that are being endured today seem intolerable to us. As for the education system, research is the key to our future. I leave it for the end as perhaps the most important thing. With their new change from university education, it will be more important than ever that there be scholarships so that our young people without resources can study, so that they can afford the two-year master's degree that they will now have to do. It is important that we focus on the educational level by completing secondary education to end school drop-out and that our children enter higher education levels with guaranteed basic training. And it is essential to respect what the Charter for Science called for and to return to the levels of R & D resources that we had at the beginning of the legislature. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, a whole reformist program. The President of the Government asked my spokesman at the first meeting: what do you propose? Well, we've been proposing for three years. This is a summary of our proposals, a whole reformist programme that, sincerely, if implemented would substantially improve the situation in our country and help our fellow citizens to achieve the Spain they deserve, the Spain we are sure they deserve, the Spain we deserve. That is why I encourage you to vote in favour of these motions for resolutions. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u26	Thank you, Mr. Anchovielo. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Centella has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my group faced last year's debate with two basic ideas: on the one hand, that we were faced with an exhausted government and, on the other, that there was a divorce between Parliament and society, and the truth is that we were partly wrong. While it was true that there was a separation between Parliament and society, a separation that continues to exist, we were wrong that the Government was exhausted. The Government had not yet completed its duties. The anti-social policy that had been adopted lacked authoritarian legislation, because there could be no anti-social policy unless it was accompanied by authoritarian legislation that sought to curb the street response through repression. It was also missing to finish the reactionary legislation in the field of education, that legislation which today provokes a strike in the student world, which we understand and with which we sympathize at this time. [[Applauds]] It also lacked progress in consolidating the patriarchal system as one of the foundations of its model of society. Thus, it was not true that the Government was exhausted; it still had to complete its reactionary task. And in this context we are facing this year's debate, not to ask them, of course, to convene early elections - it would not be logical for a few months to end the legislature - but to highlight that there is another way to govern, that things can be done differently, as my colleague Laia and my colleague Alvaro will explain in the context of the resolutions that we have tabled. Obviously, it can be ruled in another way. One can rule in favour of the working social majority, putting the economy at the service of society and not the people at the service of the economy. It can be governed, rather than by repressive measures, with more democracy. It can be governed, instead of removing rights, by extending them; and it can be governed, instead of preventing corruption from being investigated, by opening Parliament to committees of inquiry. Therefore, it can be ruled in another way. That is our goal in this debate, to show that the crisis is not the result of a tsunami, an earthquake or a biblical curse. The crisis has been the result of a system and a policy. You, instead of seeking the social exit from the crisis, as our spokesman told you two days ago in this debate, have sought the exit in favour of a minority, while the working social majority continues to suffer and pay for the crisis, because as inequalities increase they also increase the benefits. The purpose of our initiatives is to show them and explain to them that they can be ruled in favour of the majority and that this does not mean ending a model of society, but the opposite. It is not a catastrophe to rule in favour of the majority, to talk about public banking, to increase social rights and to increase fiscal reform; it is nothing more or less than to change the logic of the facts and to place us in the logic of the majority. Our group is presenting a number of initiatives, resolutions, which try to put real Spain in this debate. We want to provide solutions for people who do not find work today and see how their rights are undermined day by day by legislation that prevents them even the right to express themselves freely. I would like to recall once again the hundreds of trade unionists who are still awaiting trial. You can change things. There can be public health and education at the service of the majority who do not have to go on strike to claim no more or less that young people can go to college. There are a number of rights that you continue to deny to the majority that you are the ones who put forward our motions for resolutions. We also mention corruption. On corruption, I would like to point out that you have not done everything you could or everything you should and, above all, have prevented cases of corruption from being investigated in this legislature. They will pass into history as the parliamentary group that in the legislature that more cases of corruption have been put on the table has not created a single commission of inquiry. That's a fact that will pass into history. Therefore, we are not going to ask you to support our motions for resolutions - this morning you have already said not on the Board of Spokesmen - but we want to highlight that there is an alternative and that your policy is not the only one and we are doomed to it. I would like to say in this debate to those who may be seeing us, listening to us or reading outside this House, that there is illusion and hope, because you have the days numbered and the illusion at the latest will come to this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u28	Thank you, Mr. Centella. Mrs. Ortiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u29	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, a debate about the state of the worthy nation is not to turn the hemicycle into a race of two horses to see who wins or who loses, nor into a magic game to see who gets the most rabbits out of the joke. A worthy Congress would require the majority of this House to pay more attention to the debate on proposals than to political sham, which is not happening today. [[Applauds]] Out of respect for citizenship, and given the situation in which millions of people are in this country, this Congress should be able to look citizens in the eye, make a good diagnosis of the country's situation and urgently establish lines of action according to the emergencies we have. You have come here to tell us about a country of opulence where well-being grows, and the truth is that there are very few who are recognized in that country. They have come with a burlesque tone, without realizing that their contempt for the opposition and our approaches is also contempt for the suffering of millions of families in the face of the rights that this Government has taken away from them. They want to close their eyes and turn their backs on inequality, precariousness, youth exile, unemployment, the feminization of poverty and corruption, but, as much as they want to hide it in GDP figures, this reality overflows the open seams of a country that is fractured today. The Plural Left we have come with data, reports and faces to tell them that their decisions and decrees have consequences. You come here to make propaganda and laugh at people saying that it's social politics now; now that you're in the campaign. You insult the intelligence of the citizenry with unfulfilled promises and we come to ask you for an emergency programme, which rescues dignity, rights and democracy. We put forward a social rescue plan to them; that is the urgent matter. To combat poverty, not with checks on large families but with a guaranteed minimum income, the fight against energy poverty or the guarantee of basic supplies, a real defence of the right to housing. You come here with smoke talking about the reform of the Competition Law, a generic proposal in your resolution and without compromises. We have come to put forward a set of concrete measures, such as those requested by the PAH, for a real second chance to mortgaged families with retroactively paid and debt restructuring and write-offs. We propose a social rescue, but also an alternative development model. In view of its policy of selling the assets to speculators and vulture funds, to sink the emerging sectors of job creation such as renewables or to create jobs subsidized by this flat rate of Social Security with our pensions, from La Izquierda Plural we propose a transition to a just and ecological economy, a social and green pact that puts the environment and the care of people as a magnificent opportunity to create employment, housing, energy, transport, electrification or dependency; a true model of development that defends an industry for the twenty-first century. And when we defend democracy, we also propose policies that include women, 51% of the population. A government that today cuts rights to adolescent women, those who cannot vote, putting their health at risk by a handful of votes. [[Applauds]] We defend quality public services and secular education against a government and a fundamentalist and caspian minister, who delivers the curriculum to the bishops and pretends that we pray to learn, while cutting the scholarships to the families. [[Applauds]] Now they want to instill that happiness depends on God. It is clear that the happiness of the Spanish does not depend on this government. [[Applauds]] That's his vision of the world. In economics, the capitalism of the casino and its friends, and in social terms, the return to the middle age: they preach penance and replace knowledge with blind faith and Catholic fervor. Indoctrination and ignorance classes, that is worthy of a Taliban model. They have no shame, ladies and gentlemen; we defend democracy, yes, also recognizing that we have the country...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u30	Mrs Ortiz, no parliamentary group, no government deserves a rating like that which you have made that they are not ashamed of. We've all got shame here. We may be wrong about each other... [[Rumors and Protests]] No, no, silence. Don't change.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u31	Can you stop the clock?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u32	Yeah, he's standing there, don't worry. [[A Member: It's pathetic.-Protests and rumors]] Please remain silent. This House has said very harsh things, but I understand that no parliamentary group in this House deserves to be called shameless. Neither you nor us; nor any. [[Protests]] And if anyone said it against you, they'd do exactly the same thing. It's my obligation. Go on, Mrs. Ortiz. You use other arguments, which have many, is a very intelligent woman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u33	Your Honor, I believe - it is my opinion - that it is not to be ashamed to put in the BOE and in school curricula that happiness depends on God. [[Applauds]] Obviously, that is a criterion that everyone will have to justify. Ladies and gentlemen, we are defending democracy, also recognizing that we have the most plurinational country in Europe; recognizing that Spain's unity is already being questioned and that there is no social or territorial cohesion except for the free will to be part of a project. We demand that the Government look at the conflicts face to face. Today Catalonia raises a democratic conflict and legitimacy that only resolves by voting. There is no other way out, there is no sentence that can nullify historical mobilizations in our country. That's not gonna shut up; it's not the law, it's politics. In short, La Izquierda Plural proposes to them a program for social rescue, to rescue dignity, amputated rights and democracy. We need a constituent process where citizenship is the protagonist of the indispensable social, political and democratic change. His Government was already exhausted, its absolute majority was not in force and it was now up to the people to speak. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Ortiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, before proceeding to explain the proposals that I have to put on the table today, which have to do with a Spain that did not relate yesterday, with that inner Spain, with that rural Spain, with that agrarian Spain, I would like to recall a few words from Machado, who said that we had to flee from scenarios, pulpits, platforms and pedestals in order not to lose contact with the ground. Only then will we have a clear picture, an approximate idea of what our height is. I would recommend to the members of the People's Party that the story be applied, that this maxim be applied when dealing with the debate, because they really are up to bitumen. From the Left of Aragon we have tried to live up to what we believe is the most important now, which is the people, those people whom you have cut, slaughtered and whom, when you go out to defend your rights, as is happening right now to Rachel, you accuse you of crimes that you do not commit and right now face, in this particular case for participating in the marches for dignity, to four years in prison that the prosecution asks, in an absolute assembly. [[The honourable Member shows a poster that says: #AbsolutionRaquel]] [[Applauds]] It is shameful, ladies and gentlemen, that in this country it is said from this rostrum that the right to demonstration and the right to freedom are respected. It's embarrassing. The balance of its management in Aragon is called 11,500 more unemployed since 2011, it is called depopulation, it is called noncompliance with the mining regions, it is called passivity to the problem of lindane, to the problem of the growths, which have already been mentioned here, or of the accidents in the N-232. It is also called hospital privatization in Alcañiz, it is also called transvastist threat and it is also called, as it could not be otherwise, Russian veto, among other names. We propose that they finish no longer meeting Aragon, that they comply with the agreement, and we put on the table a proposal that has three fundamental lines: financing, infrastructure and environmental and water policy, which I will try to summarise briefly. We are asking them to comply with article 108 of the Statute of Self-Government. We are asking them to stop the depopulation by driving the project of Serranía Celtibérica, which also includes Cuenca, Soria and other provinces. We demand that, once and for all, they comply with the Aragonese, Asturian and Castilian mining regions, and we demand that they comply with the infrastructures that have been on the table for years, which are agreed upon, and I give a clear example as is the necessary reopening of the Canfranc train in 2020. We also want environmental policies, as I said. I was talking to them about the Lindado. The restoration of the Gallego River and the area is imperative. We want them to tell us through a vote whether or not they want to move from the Ebro; we are going to put it on the table, and we want a comprehensive plan, to which some intervener has also referred, of prevention and management of avenues, so that we stop dealing with the growth, a very serious problem for the banks, in this case the Ebro, of the way in which we are doing it and do it in a sustainable and coordinated way. There are more issues that affect Aragon and also have to do with other autonomous communities, of which I spoke to them at the beginning. Much of our territory is rural. In territories such as Andalusia or Aragon, agriculture plays a fundamental role, a vital role for their vertebration; forgotten in Mariano Rajoy's speech, forgotten in the speech of the People's Party. Would 90% of the territory of the Spanish State not deserve an appointment in this debate? Was there not a concrete proposal to respond to the problems you are having? [[Applauds]] It is outrageous that this government forgets it, it is outrageous that we live in a country and in a Europe where neither food escapes speculative processes. Therefore, we propose to declare the agricultural sector as a strategic sector, to shield the production of food and the right to food of Spanish citizens in the face of speculative movements. The agricultural sector is vital not only to guarantee something fundamental, which is to feed us 45 million people, but it is also fundamental in economic terms. A Magram report states that 8.4 % of gross value added and 2.3 million contracts depend on it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to put on the table proposals such as those that today place the Plural Left; proposals that go against the loss of assets and the ageing of the population, against the loss of income and against speculation in the value chain. How is it possible that there are differences of origin at destination of 450 %, from what we pay to what producers are charged to produce? [[Applauds]] We ask you not to transfer the effects of your decisions to other sectors such as, for example, the crisis in Ukraine and the Russian veto. We also ask you to clarify what this is about GDP and how it affects our countryside and our rural environment. As far as CAP reform is concerned, we call for a clear revision, a thorough revision, a revision that shields a majority social model, a model that represents our family farming and our professional agriculture in the face of the mafias and speculators that exist throughout the whole process and the productive chain. That is why, as I was telling you, we need to regulate prices and markets.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u36	Mr. Sanz, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u37	I'm done, thank you, President. Finally, of course, we want another model of agriculture. We want to move towards a model of agriculture that respects and maintains biodiversity and the natural environment; and today we want you to vote against transgenics, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Lord]] We ask them to say no to transgenics and ask them to say yes to environmental productions, to ecological and integrated production, to traditional production, and to make available the public heritage precisely for the incorporation of young people and women who so much need our rural and urban environment as well, because this not only affects the countryside. These are some of the measures that we put on the table for Aragon and for rural and agrarian inland Spain. No country can be built without looking inside, ladies and gentlemen, without having feet on earth literally.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u38	Mr. Sanz, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u39	I'm done. Spain deserves another Spain that you are perpetrating. Today we suggest you start walking it. Today we are putting on the table fifteen motions for resolutions laying the groundwork for this. That is why we ask everyone and everyone to vote in favour of these proposals. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Macias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this general policy debate there has been talk of Catalonia and you will therefore understand your ladies and gentlemen that I am beginning to speak of our motions for resolutions concerning Catalonia, the relationship between Catalonia and Spain. Our spokesman here said that the President of the Government and the Government had had a negligent attitude towards Catalonia. Our first motion for a resolution therefore wants to make it clear that, from this negligent position of not wanting to give political answers to political problems, everything that happens, such as yesterday's rulings of the Constitutional Court, contributes to making the resolution of the issue even more complex and more difficult. In this respect, I would like to tell the honourable Members that no one believes that, from yesterday's rulings, no problem has been solved; that no one believes that the 2 and a half million citizens of Catalonia we are going to the polls believe that something is solved, on the contrary. There is already a date, on 27 September, on which the citizens of Catalonia will speak again. Our first resolution therefore goes in this direction. We also urge the Government to avoid this tendency that always has to judicialize political life. In this regard, we urge the Government of Spain, through the Office of the Attorney-General of the State, to promote, before the courts, the proceedings relevant to the termination and termination of proceedings arising from the complaints lodged against the President of the Generalitat and two advisers. But the State's negligent attitude towards Catalonia goes far beyond that, goes far beyond a very long list of non-compliances. For example, the Government did not wish throughout the legislature to convene the State-General Bilateral Commission, the Joint Commission on Economic and Fiscal Affairs, the Joint Commission on Transfers, the Bilateral Commission on Infrastructure, the Catalan Security Board. No response has been given to the transfer of functions and services provided for in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Every Friday, the Government raises new remedies of unconstitutionality, new objections to rules adopted by the Catalan Parliament. We therefore propose an end to this systematic obstruction of the Government of the State to the activities of the Catalan institutions. There has also been talk in this debate about issues of social sensitivity. We have wanted to devote much of our resolutions to social policy issues. We agree in principle that a good social policy requires full employment; of course, we agree. But it is obvious that, apart from promoting the creation and maintenance of employment, social policies must also be pursued. The Government must take care of social policies, the Government must make it possible for territorial administrations to make social policies. We therefore present an extensive resolution on combating inequalities, political improvements in health and family, combating poverty, improvements in social services, housing, equality and development cooperation. We want, as our spokesman has already done, to stress something very important, which is the failure of the Government of the State on the issue of dependence. The Government has abandoned the autonomous and dependent communities, abandoned them in a total, radical and absolute way. At present, communities - 80% - and dependents bear the most important financial burden of dependency. The State has abandoned this policy in a clamorous manner. That must be said loudly and clearly and the responsibility of the State must be demanded here. There is an important issue - perhaps at least this debate can draw this conclusion - which is that of the second chance. Our group has been working on this for years. By the way, I had the honour in 2004 to present a second chance law to the Senate. We have now resubmitted a bill on this issue, but it is not only a second opportunity for families but also for small entrepreneurs, for self-employed people, etc. It seems that the Government has finally reacted and a royal decree-law will be adopted in response to this second opportunity. We have therefore put forward a very concise proposal in this respect, which we have finally agreed, through an amendment, with the majority group. Let us hope that from this consensus we will have a good royal decree-law, on its day draft law, so that at last in Spain there will be a second chance. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that as important as social policies are economic policies. We agree and share that without economic progress there can be no social welfare. We have therefore also devoted some of our motions for resolutions to economic policies, starting with employment. My group has throughout this Parliament, through Mr Carles Campuzano, drawn up a comprehensive list of proposals on employment policies. Unfortunately, most of these proposals have not been supported by the Government. In our view, labour reform - you know - was necessary. However, along with labour reform, there was a need for an employment shock plan. The President of the Government said he did not see it necessary. Of course it's necessary! How many of our citizens are unemployed? How many are unemployed without a grant? All of this should have been avoided by a work-related shock plan. Our motion for a resolution on the creation and maintenance of employment is therefore one of the pillars of our economic policy. But, as the honourable Members also know perfectly well, there is something very important for Convergence i Unió: we agree with the major reforms and macroeconomic magnitudes, and all this can be positive, but in the end it is companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, that are self-sufficient; there is therefore something very necessary, which is the promotion of the productive economy and here there has also been serious forgetfulness on the part of the government. It has not been supported by our productive sectors, starting with the primary sector, by agriculture; it has not been supported by industrialization, to which it has been abandoned, and from this point of view we are also presenting a motion for a resolution on the productive economy and we are going to announce, ladies and gentlemen, something our group wants to do to emphasize the need for reindustrialization. We are going to support most of the proposals of the groups which, while thinking differently than we - the Plural Left, the Socialist Group or other groups - have tabled motions for resolutions on support for re-industrialisation and we are going to do so in order for a clear message to emerge from this debate: without re-industrialisation there will be no quality employment. Therefore, from this point of view, I repeat, we are not only presenting proposals but we are going to support those which, from perhaps different sensitivities, support the promotion of industry. In economic policy we must go much further, to fair taxation and, much more, to a cultural policy, VAT of culture. Now lower the VAT on culture. We must also take into account, ladies and gentlemen, aspects as essential as that of democratic regeneration, and we are therefore also presenting a motion for a resolution on regeneration, democratic quality and transparency, with a number of very important measures that have not yet been taken, for example, the regulation of lobbies, which is a measure, in all international indices, of democratic quality. From Catalonia we have a lot to teach on these issues. For example, the Government of the Generalitat in only two years of implementation of these measures has achieved the highest level in the international transparency assessment indices. That is why we have tabled a very detailed motion for a resolution. We have been given a not-so-detailed amendment, but we will accept it because we believe that it is basic and that the commitment of the Catalan institutions to transparency and regeneration must also be transferred to the institutions of the State. And, speaking of regeneration, we have also had to make - because we do not like it - a last critical motion for a resolution with the Government. We urge the Government to put an end to leaks to the press and to investigate the responsibilities of leaks of police documents, in most cases with false information and which seriously affect the honorability of individuals; at the same time, we call for a thorough investigation and determination of the responsibilities that have taken place to date. This is a matter which the Government, ladies and gentlemen, must take very, very seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support with our vote all those resolutions which signify support for a plural vision of Spain. I know that sometimes we won't match one hundred percent with this vision because some have a purely federal vision. We obviously believe that we need to go further, but we will support everything that is political responses to a plurinational view of the State. We will also support those resolutions on combating poverty and those on reindustrialization. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last debate on the state of the nation that we live in this legislature, and here there have been from Members who have fired themselves to others who have fired themselves institutionally. I want to tell you something that I am sure you will all share: this is the last debate of the absolute majority. The absolute majority, ladies and gentlemen, has proved to be a sound failure for Spain. The absolute majority has not solved our problems and the absolute majority has meant the loss of some very important values in democracy: the values of dialogue, the values of using this House for consensus and not for pride. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that our group for many, many years has always been for consensus, it has always been for agreement and it has always been for agreement. That absolute majority is perfectly reflected in a news that we have heard in the State's Official Gazette these days, which is a law that we call for to be withdrawn, the Lomce, which, among other things, establishes the compulsory subject of religion. I am not, as you know, a Christian Democrat, I am my spokesman; I am a Christian, and when I have read this text, this curriculum of religion, I have only been able to blush as a Christian; I believe that it would also happen to a Christian Democrat. But besides, as we publish this vision here I believe that I am outdated of religion, Pope Francis tells us things like that paying wages in black is a very serious sin. My spokesman quoted Pope Francis on several occasions, I also quote him but to tell some that this world is changing, that even the pope, the Catholic religion, the Christians are changing, and some seem anchored, with their absolute majority, in the past. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr Hernando has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. The motions for resolutions in the State of the Nation debate are the political initiatives presented by each group most in line with the situation and problems in the country. For the majority, we have tabled motions for resolutions on what has not been breached or what is intended to be done, and for the rest of the groups we have tabled our proposals or drafts for the future, as Mr Salvador said. That is why it is extremely important to know what vision each one has of the situation in which Spain finds itself, so that the motions for resolutions tabled by my group are based on the reality that we believe most Spaniards live. Therefore, before I present them, let me make a small circumloqueum on this issue of the situation in Spain because this situation is often used to justify non-compliances. The question is how long can a Government justify its failure to comply depends on the action of a previous Government: during the first year? For the second year? Throughout the whole legislature? In my opinion, the answer to these questions is that after three General State Budgets, of sixty-eight decree-laws, of more than one hundred laws, of absolute majority in Congress and in the Senate, of controlling regulatory bodies, of controlling institutions such as Spanish Broadcasting or the Ombudsman, to rely in the past to justify the non-compliances of the present is an excuse of bad payer. [[Applauds]] The difficult reality of Spain and the Spaniards is that which the President of the Government and his ministers have been building for thirty-eight months without being able to hide or apologize in the past and on these difficulties we are not going to agree with the group of the Government, the Government and the other groups of the House. That is why our resolutions are so diametrically opposed to yours. To present those of the Socialist Parliamentary Group I will divide them into four large blocks, but they will allow me to use a simple formula to expose them that is to ask me how the Spaniards of the year 2015 live in relation to how those of the year 2011 lived or what they are or how the problems of the year 2015 have evolved compared to 2011. In the first block of resolutions on territorial problems, the quality of democracy, institutions and rights and freedoms, we have put forward a number of proposals which answer the following questions. Is Catalonia's relationship with the rest of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat better with the Government of Spain today than three years ago? Do citizens believe that today the President of the Government and his ministers are more seriously pursuing corruption than they were three years ago? [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No]] Last question: Are the rights to strike, demonstration, freedom of expression or effective judicial protection better protected today than three years ago? [[Several Members: No]] We respect the answers of each group, ladies and gentlemen. Our group's response is negative. We are proposing to the House that it be expressed in favour of a constitutional reform to revise the territorial model, since we may be able to make judicial decisions or be dismayed by judicial decisions that we are being given or denied reason, but the political problem will remain there. We are convinced that the debates and consensus on the territorial model will have to preside over the political agenda in the near future in Spain, and we are convinced that building a new political consensus around a balanced solution, a federal solution like the one proposed by the Socialists, will be absolutely essential to building a better future for our democratic state. Only in this way will we be able to overcome the potential conflict that is paradoxically fuelled by centralist and separatist tendencies. Only in this way will we achieve a framework of coexistence and stability for the future. In the area of democratic regeneration, we have not done enough, we have not done enough, and neither will we move forward with that resolution which has been agreed between Convergence i Unió and the Group of the European People's Party. Citizenship is asking us a lot more. We will run the risk that a significant part of society will be deeply fed up, dissatisfied with the democratic system and its institutions, and that is why we should act much more decisively in the fight against that risk. With regard to rights and freedoms and effective judicial protection, we make it clear that we support the repeal of the Tax Act because whenever a citizen has not been able to access the courts because he or she has had to pay a fee, an injustice has been committed and injustice has been twofold because someone has been able to take advantage of that lack of access to justice. [[Applauds]] The second block of motions for resolutions is part of what we have called a fair recovery agenda and within that block, which are proposals 60 to 63, we are talking about economic policy, taxation, reindustrialisation and employment. The questions we have tried to answer and on which our proposals are based are as follows: Are unemployed people who do not have unemployment coverage better than three years ago? Do workers who earn less and are no longer able to negotiate their working conditions live better than they did three years ago? [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No]] Do pensioners who have to feed their children and grandchildren live better than they did three years ago? Are pensioners living better than they did three years ago who received an increase of one euro in their pensions, but who have to pay for medicines? Do families that are cold this winter live better than they did three years ago because they can't afford electricity or gas? [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No]] [[Several Members: No]] Again, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that not really and yet the Government tells us that economic recovery has arrived in Spain. But, look, if the recovery reaches Spain at the risk premium, the balance of payments, but it does not reach the Spaniards, their income and their well-being, it is because the recovery has not reached Spain and it is because for you the concept of recovery does not mean the same as for the vast majority of citizens. We propose a recovery with a solvent and transformative economy, which modernises the institutions and faces the problem of structural unemployment, job insecurity and the duality of the labour market. Our economy suffers from low growth, which should be raised through the promotion of human capital and research. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, it is inexplicable that in a year like this, when agricultural income falls by 7.5%, they have not tabled a single resolution on agriculture, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. We invite you to vote for ours. We propose to increase investment in R & D & I to 3% and investment in education to 7% of GDP in eight years. We insist, ladies and gentlemen, on the repeal of labour reform, because it is surely the most impoverished element for the middle classes and the working classes. Resources for employment policies should be reformed and increased to 1.5% of GDP. It is not possible that their only active employment policies are flat or reduced rates, which mean savings for employers at the expense of pensioners' savings. Your reduced rate announcement will cost pensioners €12 billion this year. We are going to evaluate your law of the second chance, but we have started badly, because one thing is what the President said in this rostrum, another thing that they told journalists from Moncloa, another thing that the People's Parliamentary Group has recorded, and another thing that the Council of Ministers finally approves, which will surely be different from what the Vice-President at the press conference says. Last week we were presented with a non-law proposal on ground clauses and in forty-eight hours they withdrew it. At least it is exotic or shows flexible principles. It is essential to democratize the economy, to avoid the partisan use of institutions and regulatory bodies, betting on professionalization, the independence of its members, to promote effective competition and not privileges. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that recovery will not come until the citizens have what they have had again, until they enjoy the well-being they have lost again. While we don't think it's possible to talk about recovery without blushing. The third block of resolutions concerns the policies of the welfare state. Our proposals aim to ensure that GDP growth, with the tail wind, is transferred to social policies, that the opportunity is taken to return what has been cut and to restore what has deteriorated. There will only be recovery when the health services that have been closed are restarted. There will only be recovery when the 18,000 education professionals who have been fired are rehired. There will only be recovery when immigrants return to health care. There will only be recovery when dependents are re-recognized and cared for and we do not have one in three children at risk of child poverty. We propose to repeal the Lomce, because it is a profoundly ideological law and a nest of inequalities. Instead we have to ensure the public service of education with a percentage of expenditure similar to that of European countries. In the field of university education, we urge them to reduce student fees and to facilitate access to scholarships, also to those in poverty. With the Royal Decree 3+2, the Government again shows its desire to impose an unequal educational model. They are still in time to withdraw it, to bet on the public university, for equal opportunities in access and stay at the university. We call for a pact for children agreed by the political forces with the autonomous communities and social organizations, through which we all engage to advance the protection of the rights of children, and we propose to strengthen the protection of the most vulnerable, to rehabilitate the system for autonomy and attention to dependency and comprehensive protection for persons with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, full equality between men and women, the non-discrimination of women, the equalization of their social or labour rights is irrefutable in our historical times. It is a debt that all of us have with our society. Some of us have long been trying to make forced marches correct that situation of deep historical injustice. In your case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I think they drag their feet, that little they do because it's politically correct and not because they believe it. If we add to that the direct attacks during this legislature on women's equality, the conclusion is that you not only have a problem with women, you have it primarily with the historical time that has come for you to live. [[Applauds]] We call on them to rectify policies that have not only stagnated equality between men and women but have led to serious setbacks in their rights and in the fight against gender-based violence with constant attacks on sexual freedom and reproductive health, today represented by a bill that unprotects 16- and 17-year-old women who are the most vulnerable. These are just some of our proposals. Last Tuesday the President of the Government presented his own, some of the promises and predictions made to us by the President of the Government are not for this legislature, are for the following. He made promises to us until 2018. He presented them nine months before the election campaign began. These are the anticipated promises that will be repeated machaconically over the next nine months in the vague hope that we will forget the promises made in 2011 and unfulfilled from the day after the elections. A person with the trajectory of the president of the government - four times minister, vice president, three years president, eight years head of the opposition - cannot claim ignorance in making either his current promises or those he made in the past. What happened was that Mr. Rajoy knowingly concealed his purposes. Now, however, he wants to convince us that these new promises will be fulfilled but, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot fool everyone all the time. We will never tell the President of the Government to leave or not to come up here and say what he has to say. [[Applauds]] Because the epicenter of democracy is that here we are put and taken away by the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, and respect for democracy is waiting for the solemn decision of the citizens. In the case of Mr Rajoy the sentence will come in nine months and the trial will take place because of the word given three years ago, because of the violations of these four years, for all the suffering that has caused Spanish citizens and for the lack of credibility of their new promises. We've already said it. You have failed, you have missed your word and you have caused a lot of damage. We are democrats and we will wait for the judgment of the citizens but it is they who will end up sentencing them with their vote. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. For the People's Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u45	As other speakers from other parliamentary groups have done, I want to have a special memory for Mr Baldoví. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state of the nation ends today with the debate on the motions for resolutions, a debate in which some are going to lose a new opportunity to show that they are in opposition to something more than to say no to all government reforms. [[Applauds]] Because after having heard a diagnosis of the negative reality and a misunderstanding as pessimistic as it is wrong, the Spaniards have to have the conviction and the strong certainty that with a government of the People's Party the future of Spain is in good hands and more clear than ever. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not, we are taking Spain afloat, the only risk is to go back, back to a past that is better to forget - even you get angry when we remember it -. Go back or let yourself be tempted by short-range personalist proposals or populist projects that sell utopias but hide economic misery, social failure and the absence of freedoms where they apply. Because, let no one forget, history shows us that neither progress nor well-being has ever come from the hand of demagogy nor radicalisms nor populisms, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Spain is neither for risks nor for fortunes, and less now that we have started a stage of economic growth that needs to be consolidated. That reformist initiative must be kept alive. In line with what the President of the Government said, the People's Group has put forward proposals that define a true road map by the end of the parliamentary term and that seek to strengthen recovery, gain competitiveness and ensure solidarity. They are realistic and cross-cutting proposals, ranging from the drive to infrastructure and the strengthening of the industrial and agri-food sectors to the further reactivation of our economy, to the creation, for example, of a training cheque for the unemployed to choose freely the entity from which they are going to receive a training course for employment. Proposals that seek to exempt individuals from paying fees in all jurisdictions or that we continue with the administration reform process to achieve an electronic and interconnected administration. They are also proposals that reflect our social commitment and that is why we want to promote a comprehensive plan to support the family, to help reconcile the working and family lives of self-employed people and to combat wage discrimination between men and women. And, ladies and gentlemen, promoting a second chance law is also an expression of that social commitment, a law for families and companies that have difficulties in paying their debts to find a solution, to restructure their debt and to be rehabilitated to be able to restart their family, professional or business life without previous burdens. These are ambitious proposals, ladies and gentlemen, because Spain must aim to recover 3 million jobs. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the same three million that you destroyed. [[Applauds]] And you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because now Spain is a credible and solvent country and that recognizes us all but you, who remain committed to denying recovery for fear that the Spaniards will remember the origin of their misfortunes. But the recovery has come to stay, we even improve our growth forecasts and that is what is allowing us to lower taxes on all Spanish families and do social policy with fiscal policy. That is why we have created direct support for families, aid of 1,200 euros a year that we want to extend to single-parent families with two or more children, single-parent families, Mr Hernando, in which the majority are certainly women. You say you care a lot about people's problems, but in the end, as always, it's us who deal with them. It's just that it's always the same, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] It's always the same. So they will be able to criticize us all they want but they will not be able to deny a reality and it is that when we govern we never fail, we always end up getting a Spain better than the one we receive. [[Protests]] Others cannot say the same because not all Governments or all policies are equal in their commitment or results. That is why only from blindness or political hypocrisy can one deny evidence and that in the last three years Spain has changed and changed for good. What is the change? I am going to tell you that we were a problem for Europe before and now we are a model and an example to follow, that we were in recession before and now we are leading growth, that we were at risk of rescue, there was a miscontrol in public accounts and no one trusted Spain and now the accounts are in order, no one thinks of intervention and Spain is a serious and respected country at international level, and above all that before with you we were leading the destruction of employment and now what we are doing is leading the creation of employment. That's what change is all about, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] That's what change is about. And if you don't want to acknowledge any merit to the government, don't do it, but at least recognize the courage and effort of the Spaniards because they are successfully overcoming one of the most difficult stages of our history. It is precisely in order to help increase employment stability that we propose to set a reduced rate on social contributions for the new indefinite contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is certainly far from being the country of the opportunities that the Spanish deserve, but that path to recovery does not go by spending more, it goes by spending better. Some spent what we didn't have and instead of progressing what we did was the opposite, back off. Therefore, do not confuse, austerity is not opposed to growth; on the contrary, it is an instrument to achieve it. So learn to combine better, austerity and budgetary stability are combined with rigour and responsibility, and what is countered is the disorder and miscontrol of public accounts that is typical of policies that fortunately belong to the past. So, ladies and gentlemen, the waste in Spain ended with Mariano Rajoy as President of the Government. It's over, ladies and gentlemen, the waste. [[Applauds]] That is the best way to guarantee social policies, to guarantee the viability of our welfare state, which you left on the verge of bankruptcy. Social services are not saved by t-shirts or banners; they are saved by paying bills that some have left to owe in the drawers and by policies that stimulate growth and employment, bet to recover the productive fabric, fight tax fraud and the submerged economy and end up generating enough income to make solidarity policies viable. You talk a lot about progress and equality, but remember that when you ruled inequality it grew five times faster than the OECD average. They talk a lot about social sensitivity with the unemployed, but to the first difficulty, when they ruled, they frozen the pensions and with it they lost purchasing power, while we have had much more respect with our elders and we have guaranteed them by law that their pensions will always rise lordships. [[Applauds]] That's social commitment. [[Applauds]] They confuse cuts in health with policies of efficiency and rationalization of spending, also made with criteria of justice and equity. Or isn't it fair for medicines to be paid on the basis of income and not just age? Or is it not fair that we have put a stop to health tourism and saved ourselves a billion euros with it? Do you consider that a cut, ladies and gentlemen? By the way, since they boast so much of social rights, why is Andalusia the autonomous community of Spain that spends less per inhabitant and year on health care? Or is it that there also governs the People's Party? [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]] Of course we will not allow the same thing to be called in Madrid intolerable cut and in Andalusia responsible adjustment. It's all right, ladies and gentlemen, it's all right. [[The rumors continue.-Applause]] Stop confusing and scaring people, because the gratuitousness and universality of the system are guaranteed. They criticize us in education, but they forget that since 2011 we have reduced the drop-out rate by more than 4 points, and that is the line we must insist on; or they denounce cuts in dependency when the waiting list is being reduced and more dependent people are now being treated than ever before. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you criticise what you want, but I would ask you a bit of a measure, because our welfare model can be everything you want, but it also has to be viable and sustainable, and that is what this Government is guaranteeing with policies that achieve economic growth and employment, which is the greatest guarantee - I repeat, the greatest guarantee - of social policies. As a demonstration of our commitment to the weakest, we want the Government to push the social agenda to address precisely situations of special vulnerability in families, children and the elderly. Ladies and gentlemen, the regeneration of democracy is not about destroying the system or replacing the model, but about reforming what works precisely to make it work better and giving such a strong and relentless response to the scourge of corruption. It is not a question, Mr Sánchez, of using corruption to attack the adversary; citizens want to fight corruption to end the corrupt, which is a very different thing. [[Applauds]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that in corruption not only laws fail, people especially fail, but laws can also be improved. Corruption is combated with values, but also with transparency and exemplaryness, apart from legislative proposals; it is precisely what we have done to make corrupt behaviour more and more difficult, to be discovered more quickly, to be punished more harshly and the corrupt returns the stolen, which is also what the citizens demand. [[Applauds]] That is why, even if some are interested in denying it, the reality that Spain is experiencing today is that there has never before been such a strong and complete response to this sad phenomenon from all its fronts, from the legislative to the judicial. That shows that we have listened to the citizens and have been able to react; that also shows that the system works and that there is no impunity in Spain, but that the one who does it sooner or later ends up paying it. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what the citizens also want. [[Applauds]] In this line is the amendment of the Criminal Prosecution Act that we propose so that there will be no delay in the proceedings and the figure of confiscation will be developed to the maximum, which will help the start-up of the asset management and recovery office. Ladies and gentlemen, some groups have again proposed the revision of the model of constitutional Spain; some to federalize it, others to recast it and others simply to dissolve it. There has already been an intense debate on this subject, but I will remind you of just one thing. Our Constitution was born not by imposition but by consensus. It was the Constitution of freedom, the best expression of a common life project that has given us political stability and, in addition, the greatest social and economic momentum in our history. It was a Constitution endorsed by the only constituent subject: the Spanish people as a whole. It therefore no longer belongs to politicians. It belongs to the citizens and only to them and all of them - I repeat, only to them and all of them - they would have to change the current constitutional framework. Do you really think that what each of you proposes could also be of everyone? Do you really think that the Spanish have constitutional reform as their priority today? We think it is not and, if you read any survey, you will come to the same conclusion: the Spaniards and the citizens neither. They do not insist, ladies and gentlemen; there is neither the right to secession nor the unilateral breakdown of our framework of coexistence nor, of course, the right to impose its decision on others. You know why? Because our Constitution has many principles, but there is one that is universal, which is the equal rights of all Spaniards. It is a principle that equates us all as free and equal persons, that equates us all as citizens regardless of any condition. What do you want? That others renounce our decision on our future and thereby renounce our status as equal citizens in rights with you? So where would we leave our dignity? We're not giving up, ladies and gentlemen. What was built with the will of all can only be modified by the will of all; only. [[Applauds]] We will be able to discuss many issues with you, but, as the President of the Government told you, we will not negotiate law enforcement, unity of Spain, territorial cohesion, equality and solidarity between Spaniards. For that, do not count on the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]] Lords of Amaiur - there is Mr Iñarritu, who has better forms than Mr Quadra; ah!, he is there - Mr Iñarritu, in this rostrum has made a statement that I cannot overlook. Not everyone's a victim. There are victims, but there are also executioners. To say that all are victims of the same conflict is politically indecency, Mr Iñarritu. [[Applauds]] If ETA has stopped killing, it has not been for a gesture of goodwill, but because it has been defeated by Spanish society. We don't owe them anything for it. I repeat: nothing. They'll have to answer for everything they've done, because they've stopped killing doesn't mean they're not murderers, and to their shame it'll remind them of history. [[One Member: Very well]] [[Applauds]] Therefore, there will be no impunity or forgetfulness. There will be justice, truth and an unpayable debt to the victims of terrorism. That is why we call for its memorial centre, which is a form of recognition for the victims of terrorism, who will always be a reference and an example for all of us and Spanish society. I'm done. The Members of the Group of the European People's Party are convinced that if we keep going, years of employment, opportunities, growth and prosperity will come to Spain. Those years won't be a gift. They will be the result of the efforts of the Spaniards who are the real protagonists of this change, and also of the commitment of a government that has always worked for the general interest, always thinking about the best for the citizens; they will be the result, ladies and gentlemen, of which we believe that victory only accompanies those who fight for it. Of course, there is a long way to go and we will have to overcome new problems and difficulties, such as social inequality, but that is compatible with recognizing that we are in the right direction. That is why I invite everyone to contribute to making this stage of recovery that we have begun as quick and intense as possible, as well as to dialogue and seek consensus on the fundamental issues. Today we have engaged in dialogue and reached some agreements. It is the dialogue and the agreement that the citizens are demanding of us and it is the way to be looked at with confidence; the same, ladies and gentlemen, that my group has in the Government presided over by Mariano Rajoy, who has been able to rise up and act courageously and effectively in the face of one of the most difficult situations in our history. The same trust and pride that we have of belonging to our country, to Spain, which has never surrendered and which has given us all a lesson of overcoming and strength, since when it has walked united and with determination it has always managed to move forward, to save difficulties and to be an example of progress, employment and well-being. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve this objective and to serve Spain, you will always be able to count on the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Rumours.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. I thank the group spokesmen for their diligent work this morning. We already have the voting paper. I ask you to give one last review and in a few minutes we begin to vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u47	Firstly, as announced at the Board of Spokesmen on 24 February, this Presidency is submitting to the plenary the extension, until the end of this session, of the deadline for the submission of a report to the Subcommittee on Studies and Analysis of the Spanish Railway System, set up within the Committee on Development. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u48	We shall vote on the proposals, which will be submitted in numerical order. I warn Members that the votes have been reduced to ten seconds. I shall state whether the proposal is rejected or adopted, although the result of each vote will be in the "Diary of Meetings". Motion for a resolution by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo and Mrs Oramas. Proposal 1, with Amendment 32 from the Basque Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 46 against, 275 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u49	It's rejected. Proposal 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 124 against, 187 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u50	It's rejected. Proposals of the Plural Left. Proposal 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 115 against, 176 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u51	It's rejected. Proposal 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 126 against, 194 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u52	It's rejected. Proposal 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 128 against, 176 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u53	It's rejected. Proposal 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 117 against, 176 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u54	It's rejected. Proposal 7, with Amendment 33 by the Basque Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 46 against, 276 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u55	It's rejected. Proposal 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 26 against, 290 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u56	It's rejected. Proposal 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 30 against, 274 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u57	It's rejected. Proposal 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 22 against, 179 abstentions, 115.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u58	It's rejected. Proposal 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 130 against, 175 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u59	It's rejected. Proposal 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 17 against, 277 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u60	It's rejected. Proposal 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 17 against, 179 abstentions, 126.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u61	It's rejected. Proposal 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 27 against, 275 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u62	It's rejected. Proposal 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 141 against, 177 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u63	It's rejected. Proposal 16. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 114 against, 179 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u64	It's rejected. Proposal 17 and last of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 26 against, 177 abstentions, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u65	It's rejected. We shall now vote on the motions for resolutions by the Basque Group, PNV. Proposal 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 143 against, 177 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u66	It's rejected. Proposal 19. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 33 against, 181 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u67	It's rejected. Proposal 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 117 against, 183 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u68	It's rejected. Proposal 21. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 120 against, 193 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u69	It's rejected. Proposal 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 45 against, 278 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u70	It's rejected. Proposal 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 44 against, 279 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u71	It's rejected. Proposal 24. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 127 against, 181 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u72	It's rejected. Proposal 25. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 145 against, 177 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u73	It's rejected. Proposal 26. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 145 against, 176 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u74	It's rejected. Proposal 27. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 48 against, 271 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u75	It's rejected. Proposal 28. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 35 against, 183 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u76	It's rejected. Proposal 29. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 45 against, 279.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u77	It's rejected. Proposal 30. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 144 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u78	It's rejected. Proposal 31. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 45 against, 273 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u79	It's rejected. Proposal 32, which is the last of the Vasco Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 45 against, 279.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u80	It's rejected. Now, proposals by Mrs Fernández Davila and Mrs Pérez Fernández. Firstly, proposal 33. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 29 against, 278 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u81	It's rejected. Proposal 34. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 24 against, 180 abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u82	It's rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Álvarez Sostres. Proposal 35. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 25 against, 175 abstentions, 115.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u83	It's rejected. Mr Baldoví's proposal, to which we all wish a speedy restoration. [[Applauds]] Proposal 36. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 27 against, 177 abstentions, 117.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u84	It's rejected. Proposal by Mr Cuadra. Proposal 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 43 against, 277 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u85	It's rejected. Proposal by Mr Iñarritu. Proposal 38. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 43 against, 275 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u86	It's rejected. Proposal by Mr Larreina. Proposal 39. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 29 against, 277 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u87	It's rejected. Proposal by Mrs Enbeita. Proposal 40. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 25 against, 291 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u88	It's rejected. Proposal by Mrs Barkos, which is number 41. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 42 against, 180 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u89	It's rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy. Proposal 42. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 4 against, 317 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u90	It's rejected. Proposal 43, with Amendment 35 by the Basque Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 140 against, 176 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u91	It's rejected. Proposal 44. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 15 against, 197 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u92	It's rejected. Proposal 45. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 19 against, 276 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u93	It's rejected. Proposal 46. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 17 against, 176 abstentions, 124.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u94	It's rejected. Proposal 47, with Amendment 36 by the Basque Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour 142 against 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u95	It's rejected. Proposal 48. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 101 against, 176 abstentions, 40.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u96	It's rejected. Proposal 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 4 against, 306 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u97	It's rejected. Proposal 50. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 123 against, 178 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u98	It's rejected. Proposal 51. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 134 against, 177 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u99	It's rejected. Proposal 52. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 147 against, 177.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u100	It's rejected. Proposal 53. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 5 against, 208 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u101	It's rejected. Proposal 54. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 123 against, 176 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u102	It's rejected. Proposal 55. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 3 against, 284 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u103	It's rejected. Proposal 56, last submitted by the UPyD Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 2 against, 315 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u104	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Socialist Group. Proposal 57. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 111 against, 185 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u105	It's rejected. Proposal 58. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 116 against, 177 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u106	It's rejected. Proposal 59, with Amendment No 15 by the Socialist Group itself. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 119 against, 178 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u107	It's rejected. Proposal 60. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 101 against, 176 abstentions, 47.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u108	It's rejected. Proposal 61. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 98 against, 175 abstentions, 42.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u109	It's rejected. Proposal 62. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 129 against, 179 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u110	It's rejected. Proposal 63 by the Socialist Group, with Amendment 39 by the Vasco PNV Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 120 against, 176 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u111	It's rejected. Proposal 64. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 127 against, 179 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u112	It's rejected. Proposal 65. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 124 against, 177 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u113	It's rejected. Proposal 66. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 121 against, 175 abstentions, 25.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u114	It's rejected. Proposal 67. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 123 against, 177 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u115	It's rejected. Proposal 68, with Amendment No 16 by the Socialist Group itself. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 133 against, 178 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u116	It's rejected. Proposal 69. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 135 against, 176 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u117	It's rejected. Proposal 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 126 against 175; abstentions 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u118	It's rejected. Proposal 71, last of the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 144 against, 175 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u119	It's rejected. Motions for resolutions by the Catalan Parliamentary Group [[Convergence and Union]] Proposal 72. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 46 against, 276 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u120	It's rejected. Proposal 73. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 131 against, 183 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u121	It's rejected. Proposal 74, with amendment 52 of the People's Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 193 against, 5 abstentions, 126.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u122	It's approved. Proposal 75. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 26 against, 270 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u123	It's rejected. Proposal 76. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 44 against, 174 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u124	It's rejected. Proposal 77. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 137 against, 179 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u125	It's rejected. Proposal 78, with amendment 46 by the Group of the European People's Party. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 217 against, 2 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u126	It's approved. Proposal 79. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 40 against, 179 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u127	It's rejected. Proposal 80. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 43 against, 274 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u128	It's rejected. Proposal 81, in the terms of the compromise amendment to 47 of the Group of the European People's Party, which you all certainly know. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 306 against, 3 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u129	It's approved. Proposal 82. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 114 against, 177 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u130	It's rejected. Proposal 83, with Amendment 41 from the Basque Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 135 against, 178 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u131	It's rejected. Proposal 84. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 39 against, 275 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u132	It's rejected. Proposal 85, with Amendment 42 from the Basque Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 37 against, 178 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u133	It's rejected. Proposal 86, last of the proposals of the Catalan Parliamentary Group [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 44 against, 178 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u134	It's rejected. Proposals by Mr Bosch. Firstly, proposal 87. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 146 against, 177 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u135	It's rejected. Proposal 88. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 27 against, 279 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u136	It's rejected. Proposal 89. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 14 against, 275 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u137	It's rejected. Proposals by the People's Group. Proposal 90, with Amendment 43 of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 174 against, 117 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u138	It's approved. Proposal 91. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour 177 against 124; abstentions 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u139	It's approved. Proposal 92. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 178 against, 17 abstentions, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u140	It's approved. Proposal 93. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 178 against 115 abstentions 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u141	It's approved. Proposal 94. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 173 against, 124 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u142	It's approved. Proposal 95. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 173 against, 132 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u143	It's approved. Proposal 96. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 180 against, 127 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u144	It's approved. Proposal 97. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 176 against, 105 abstentions, 35.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u145	It's approved. Proposal 98, in the terms of the compromise amendment to the Socialist Group's 23rd reading. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 292 against, 18 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u146	It's approved. Proposal 99. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 176 against, 46 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u147	It's approved. Proposal 100. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 180 against, 126 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u148	It's approved. Proposal 101, with amendment 6 of the Catalan Group [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 193 against, 26 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u149	It's approved. Proposal 102. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 178 against, 145 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u150	It's approved. Proposal 103, with Amendment 30 of the Parliamentary Group on Progress Union and Democracy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 195 against, 116 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u151	It's approved. Proposal 104. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 276 against, 29 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u152	It's approved. Last proposal, made by Mr Salvador. Proposal 105. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 294 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-26-CD150226.u153	It's approved. The meeting rose. It was one and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
