ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u1	The meeting was resumed. Let's start with the questions to the government. Questions to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Rosa Díez of the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u2	Thank you, President. Madam Vice President, happy birthday! Happy birthday! Mr. Lleonart, Don Julio, you agree. An active policy of transparency is a policy capable of preventing the great evils of our democracy: fraud, institutionalized corruption, the diversion of money from public institutions, waste of money... Year and a half after the Transparency Act was passed, I ask you, Madam Vice-President, whether you believe this law has been effective in achieving these objectives.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u3	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Also congratulations, with a few years of difference against me. First of all, I would like to say that the Transparency Act has moved forward, and I believe that it is a good element for it to be used in future preventively to prevent new cases of corruption, because knowing how contracts are concluded and to whom subsidies are granted is, of course, one of the best rules of control and self-control. But we have not only passed a law on transparency, Mrs Díez, but in this legislature we have passed that law on transparency, a change in the Criminal Code to also make it effective, we have adopted a law on financial control of political parties, we have adopted a statute of high office, a reform of the Criminal Code that establishes new crimes and that exacerbates the penalties and consequences of those who are being committed and a law on criminal prosecution is in process so that we are also much more agile and much more effective in their persecution. I believe that all these measures must achieve two fundamental questions: that the cases of corruption of the past that we are now experiencing and that those that can be committed in the future should be judged, and that they should be judged as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u5	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mrs. Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u6	Madam Vice President, it is often said that hell is stoned with good wishes. I believe that we all share those objectives, but it has been shown that the instruments that have been put in place are not effective. We warned them that Spain was late and wrong with the Transparency Act. You made a defensive law to defend yourself from the desire for transparency of all citizens, transparency and participation, and put so much effort into data protection and raised so many barriers that access to information has become almost impossible. That is why you are languishing, Madam Vice-President, the portal to transparency, just ten daily consultations, because everything is obstacles: electronic ID, digital certificate and key that requires a bank account number. So the only thing that happens is withdrawal. How to prevent those tears? Preventing them was not the purpose of the law, acknowledge it, Vice President. We discussed it in the debates of the whole and that's why you made a bad law, an insufficient law, a law that does not recognize the right to information as a fundamental right, privacy above the right to information, that makes it difficult to access the information available, that besides on the portal - you know it well - it is incomplete, that keeps the administrative silence, that is, if you don't answer it is that no, the oldest of the oldest policy, that does not contain measures to harshly sanction non-compliance - you talked about sanctions, but prevention and sanctions, both things - and that you don't have an independent supervisor. In short, Madam Vice-President, late and bad. Consequences: more frustration, more detachment and more corruption, bad for democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. In this of transparency and corruption you have presented the whole legislature as if you were the mother of Graco and in the end you end up being the victim of your own speech. First of all, I remind you that you did not support the Transparency Act and that in this legislature, if there is transparency, it is because this government and you have approved it for many years in political life, so, after having been a militant for so long in the Socialist Party, do not tell me that you now discover transparency and corruption. Secondly, Mrs Díez, the transparency portal has had more than 3,259,000 visits and requests are being made, Your Honor, but perhaps the difference is that citizens see transparency in a very different way from the way we see it by politicians and those in our environment. People want to know how decisions are made and that's what's on the transparency portal. However, many - you on many occasions - are simply interested in knowing certain issues that have nothing to do with the exercise of politics. Mrs Díez, throughout this term you have criticized everything and voted nothing. You have not voted in favour of the Transparency Act or innumerable initiatives that you proposed, but when you have brought them to this House you have voted against them; you have voted against even amendments that were identical to yours and, as a matter of inconsistency, a motion against political transfuguism will be voted in this House today at your request. With your record, Mrs. Díez, don't tell me you don't have merit. [[Applauds]] Politicians demand, in addition to...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u9	Thank you, Madam Vice President. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO HERNANDO VERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY: DOES THE VICE-President KEEP THE INFORMATION THAT TRANSMITTED TO THIS ROOM ON MAY 26 ON THE DELEGATE OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE VALENTIAN COMMUNITY? [[File number 180/001334]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u10	Question also to the Vice-President of the Socialist Group, Mr Antonio Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, on the 26th last day the Congress of Deputies received the following reply, and I open quotes: 'In reply to the reference question, it is reported that the government delegate in the Valencian Community has already informed by means of a statement that it is quite false that he has received any amount from the company mentioned either directly or indirectly. On the other hand, it is reported that all the invitations to tender referred to in the question have been made by means of public invitations to tender through a legal procedure, with the corresponding publicity and with all the reports due.' I close quotes. Seventy-two hours after this reply, Castellano was arrested for corruption. Do you have this answer today? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u12	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernando, whom the Government does not maintain is the delegate of the Government because the same morning he was accused he decreed his cessation. See if you take it with the same app. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u14	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I request silence so that speakers can be heard. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u15	Madam Vice-President, the question is what checks did you make to give the answer we have heard; or perhaps you did not make any because you simply trusted him, which is the same thing that happened to Mr Rajoy with Mr Bárcenas, but the thing is not there. In November we asked you about the gift of a rifle to Castellano and do you know what you answered? I open quotes: 'In relation to the question raised, the Government refers to the explanations offered by the government delegate in the Valencian Community, in which he has denied having received the gift cited in the reference initiative'. End of date. But let's see, how rigorously do you answer the written questions? We already know that the oral ones with none. But how did you not give credibility to the information about the gift of a rifle to Castellano? How did he not cease immediately? Maybe it was because you named him. And you want to tell me what you named Castellano in June 2014 when since February 2009 there was this information regarding irregularities in its management? Perhaps it was, Madam Vice-President, because Mr Castellano was the general secretary of his party, of the People's Party, in the Valencian Community? Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría, you are now Vice-President of the Government and Spokeswoman, and in the performance of those functions if you had a drop of humility you would recognize today that you should never have appointed Castellano, that you did not check the allegations of corruption against him and that you had to cease long before, but today we will not attend that speech. You're going to back off and you're going to accuse me of anything, but none of the accusations you're going to make today are going to cover up your irresponsibility as vice president by naming Castellano. Nor are they going to cover up that you had a passivity in pursuing Castellano's corruption and much less will they cover up the lies that you transferred to the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u17	Mr. Hernando, you're advice that I don't have for myself. [[Rumors]] You love to talk about corruption, but your bench is your biggest self-amendment. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u18	Wait a minute, Madam Vice President. I pray silently. Mr Hernando has been heard with absolute silence on the popular bench. [[Protests Continue]] I pray silently. I will proceed against him who speaks because we need to know everyone's opinions. [[Protests.- Mrs López i Chamosa utters words that are not perceived]] Quiet, please. Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa, silence, please. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Hernando, you ask for more incompatibilities, but for all others, not for you, and they must be only in Spain, not abroad. Secondly, you speak of defendants. Mr. Hernando, I have assumed my responsibility. You're sitting on the bench for those who can sit on the bench and don't come to hear you talk about corruption because you have to hurry. [[Mrs. Aguilar Rivero: Do you know what happens in the Supreme?-Protests]] Thirdly, Mr Hernando, we are talking about government delegates... [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u20	Again, this is intolerable. Behave yourself. [[Strong Protests]] She's answering the vice president. Listen to you and, when you're done, you can manifest whatever you like. This has always been the case here and we will continue to respect the rules.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u21	Mr Hernando, did you not support a government delegate who is now being tried for votes as head of the Socialist Party in Melilla? Wasn't it you on site to take a picture with him accompanied by Mr. Zarrías, who is accused and active? Do you want us to talk about contracts from other public administrations? Are we talking about Aznalcollar, a government in office that awarded a contract without the slightest rigour? Are we talking about arrests in the delegations of the Government of Employment in Andalusia? [[A Member: What does that have to do with anything?-Protests]] I have assumed my responsibility and Mr. Castellano is not active. You do the same. I have assumed my responsibility and this government has brought the largest anti-corruption legislative package, but you have voted against it. He is the greatest fan of talking about corruption in this House, but - what do you want me to say! - the least appropriate. Go make decisions and give less lessons to others. Apply the story. [[Mrs. Grande Pesquero: What a level!-Protests.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u22	When the question is over, it's time to manifest. I'm willing to wait. Now that the demonstrations are over, let's move on. [[Protests.- Mr. Canongia Gerona utters words that are not perceived]] Mr. Canongia, until you've just expressed yourself, we don't follow. You say whatever you want now. Do you think that's enough? So let us continue with the question to the Minister of Justice. - OF MR CARLOS MARTÍNEZ GORRIARAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS UNION AND DEMOCRACY, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT IS DOING EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO RESOLVE THE CASES OF BABY ROBED IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/001317]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u23	Question asked by Mr Carlos Martínez Gorriaran of the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u24	Minister, I'm going to ask you about one of the most incredible secret dramas in the recent history of Spain. I am referring to the organized plot of kidnapping and illegal detention of babies. In fact, it is not just an administrative fact, but an incredible story of stolen lives, both of the children who were separated from their biological mothers and parents and of the deceived adoptive parents who left without knowing about the children who had been stolen. We are joined - and I take this opportunity to greet you - by representatives of some associations of stolen babies who have complaints about the government's action and what you are doing. That is my question: what are you doing to resolve something that, even if it is not the responsibility of your Government, it is the responsibility of the State - and therefore of any Government of the nation, which must thoroughly investigate this illegal plot of thefts of mass babies - and above all to compensate those affected for their rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u26	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Martínez Gorriarán, I agree with you that this situation is a real personal and social drama. I therefore reiterate the Government's commitment to work together - and the associations know that - in the establishment of all information and data-seeking systems to resolve this tragedy. It is true that we can do so within the competence of a government, of the executive branch, and we cannot tell the judges what they have to do. The Government had established an information system in collaboration with victim associations. The Attorney-General's Office issued a circular which has also served to prevent the prescription of such offences, so that until genetic origin is identified, the calculation of the prescription cannot be started. We are therefore fully committed to working in this area, to continue working with the associations so that no matter of this nature, which is a real personal and social drama, can go unpunished. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u27	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u28	Thank you, Minister, for at least you have not answered me as in the previous questions: and you more. Indeed, this is what the Government can do, and we think it can do much more, because some of the things called for by these associations and those affected seem to be easy to solve or should be. For example, it would seem that it would be easier for the registers to accept DNA analysis, it would seem easier if they did not have to do private laboratories at a cost to those affected; it would seem that there would have to be agreement with the autonomous communities so that there would also be offices of care and registers in the autonomous communities and that there would not only be one in Madrid. Finally, it also seems that the judiciary does indeed have its autonomy, although sometimes it does not shine, but in this case it seems that the Government must push for legal changes or insist on the prosecution so that there are no judges who file automatically, such as mere administrative faults or offences already prescribed, which today remain - as you yourself have acknowledged - effective cases; that is, the crime continues to be committed every day until the truth of what happened is known. What we are asking of the Government is that it be more proactive, that it be more responsive to the demands of those affected. We also ask for justice, that is, it is absolutely unworthy of a modern State that until the 1990s nothing more and nothing less has been possible for all kinds of State institutions - religious, hospitals, etc. - to have been involved in plots in which documents have also been destroyed so that a reconstruction of exactly what has happened cannot be done. That's what we're asking of the government. Of course, there are not many things of reparation of the past that are in your hand, but at present everything is done to make the affected be compensated and society knows the truth...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u29	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u30	Thank you, President. I insist, Mr Martínez Gorriarán, on our commitment and our firm decision. On 26 February 2013, an agreement was approved involving the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health and the State Prosecutor's Office to promote an information service to carry out all necessary actions in this area. From then until today, in 2013 it was 753 people who accessed that service and 366 who started a file; in 2014 it was 533 who went to the information service and 188 who started their file; and in 2015 it has already been 147 people, 38 of whom have started a file. Therefore, a total of 1,400 people attended and 592 files launched. I agree that there may be misadjustments, there may be need for additional information. That is why we are in contact with the associations and we are going to continue with the meetings, because we need to improve coordination with the autonomous communities, we need to improve coordination with the National Institute of Toxicology for DNA testing and logically we will have the best willingness to compensate for this absolutely inappropriate situation of a rule of law like the one I am sure we all want to have in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WILL THE GOVERNMENT RESPECT THE LACTED PRODUCTION OF OUR MOUNTAIN AGRICULTURE BEFORE THE RETIRATION OF MILK COUNTRY? [[File number 180/001329]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u31	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Environment, by Mrs Maite Ariztegui of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u32	Will the government respect the milk production of our mountain agriculture in the face of the withdrawal of milk quotas?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u33	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u34	Thank you, President. The Government has been taking measures in favour of the dairy sector for more than three years to make all farms viable on a quota-free stage with special consideration for mountain livestock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u35	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u36	Those measures have not been valid. I'm telling you because we're in a critical situation that's getting worse. The reasons for introducing milk quotas are still valid and the sector has already undergone a very important restructuring; more than 80% of farms have disappeared and no measures have been taken to prepare the sector. Now we are facing another neoliberal clash. We are moving towards a very serious imbalance. The risks are especially bloody in mountainous and outermost areas, in the Basque country's hamlets and in the whole cantabrian cornice; some areas have little more than milk, with much higher production and collection costs than in the favoured areas. The law of the jungle is being imposed, Minister. Large companies decide when, how, how, where and at what price prices are produced and propose prices well below production costs. Moreover, they no longer want to collect milk in some areas and of these they are moving to Andalusia and Castile-La Mancha, here in the state, betting almost on concentration camps of a thousand cows or more, projects that are already generating great social rejection. We wonder, how long do you plan to allow these projects that involve the disappearance of livestock, production and living rural fabric from our mountain areas? Is it not more sustainable and better, for example, twenty farms of fifty cows than one of a thousand? If there is no policy of defending prices, if there are no policy instruments of regulation, no one will be able to stay out of this situation, no one will be able to keep production. How are they going to guarantee those fair prices? How are they going to deal with relocation? Don't talk to me about aid policies because they didn't do any good. They have tools to address this crisis, they are not being valid. They cannot delegate market management capacity to the hands of Europe. To the extent that Europe does not address instruments of market regulation, we need and demand that Euskal Herria be able to manage these measures in terms of food sovereignty and defence of a vital sector as a people at risk of disappearance, firmly relying on it, recognizing the value of its producers and what they bring us as consumers, as a society. That's why I ask you, how are you going to intervene to guarantee fair prices and avoid relocation...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u37	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u38	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the end of milk quotas was sentenced in 2009 under the socialist government and has coincided with the largest volume of milk production recorded in Spain and Europe. I would like to recall that the last extension of this regime was achieved by Minister Miguel Arias Cañete in 2003, but this government, from the beginning, has turned to prepare the sector for a stage without quotas. We have secured and increased CAP aid for the dairy sector by 2020, more than EUR 1.8 billion. We have increased the aid associated with the sector by 56%, which will also be higher for mountain areas and higher per livestock unit for smaller herds. The sector will maintain a level of support close to EUR 245 million per year, all thanks to the CAP reform model agreed in Spain where the dairy sector will increase its support thanks to the solidarity of the rest of the sectors. It is estimated that dairy farmers in the Basque Country will receive an additional 60% in coupled aid from the same year. We are one of the first States to apply dairy contracts, we did so in 2012 and we have changed their application to improve the system of contracting - which defends prices - and to strengthen the role of producer organisations. We have promoted and will continue to support these producer organisations. Already 36% of farmers belong to them and can negotiate in common the sale of their milk, which is also where a part of getting better prices is. The National Plan of Controls for the Recruitment of the Dairy Sector is in force. The Food Information and Control Agency of the Ministry shall investigate the complaints submitted by the agricultural organizations and shall sanction them. We carry out controls to avoid loss of milk and, in fact, has greatly decreased its sale at abnormally low prices. We have reduced the IRPF module indices for the sector in 2014 and 2013, and will be done whenever necessary. We have studied the evolution of the dairy market and published its data so that farmers have the best information to make their decisions. We continue to act on a new package of measures. We are working to establish the figure of the mediator in the dairy sector. We will launch a publicity campaign to facilitate the application of dairy contracts. We will support producer organisations by calling for specific support for those with a supra-autonomous scope. We will boost the milk and dairy distribution program in schools. We will carry out promotional actions to increase the consumption of dairy products. We will strengthen development measures with the autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u39	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: DO YOU THINK IT IS A GOOD MEASURE IN THE FIGHT AGAINST THE FRAUD THAT DEFLUDERERS CAN AVOID THE PUBLICATION OF THEIR NAME IF THEY PAY THE DEBT? [[File number 180/001336]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u40	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Pedro Saura, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Montoro, do you think it's a good anti-fraud measure that fraudsters can prevent their name from being published on a list of fraudsters? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Saura, the government has opted since the start of the legislature for the effectiveness of the proceedings. The Tax Agency is achieving record figures in the fight against tax fraud in our country. As far as we are concerned, 37,674 million euros have been achieved; more than 2,300 in 2014, which is the largest figure in history. Although last year ended with record figures, the first quarter of 2015 was even better than the first quarter of 2014: 13,5 %, after collecting 2,889 million euros, which is also the largest in history in the first quarter of a year. The amendment to the General Tax Law has already entered the Chamber, which, as you know, is aimed precisely at strengthening this effectiveness of the proceedings, carrying out an initiative that no Spanish Government had taken in relation to the publication of late and defrauders. We do not want this to mean the burden of the penalties they must bear on the basis of their hypothetical fraud - which they have carried out - nor should we flood the areas of privacy, as the advisory reports warn us in this regard. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, on the first part of your reply, the Institute of Tax Studies says that the fiscal conscience of the Spaniards has been on the ground since you became Minister of Finance. You don't have a solution. He's fooled the Spaniards again. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of fraudsters is not going to be published, although the finance minister has been promising it for two and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of convicted fraudsters is not even going to be published, only the list of convicted fraudsters who have been unable to pay or have been able to endorse their conviction is going to be published. Ladies and gentlemen, he who has money, he who has resources, can buy his pardon. Ladies and gentlemen, for whom you have resources, tax amnesty. Since you are Minister of Finance the maximum is that the one who has resources can go from rositas fiscally in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, what we want is for the list of tax amnesty to be published, but not only that, we want the list of our country's defrauders to be published as well, and you have again deceived the Spanish, Mr Montoro. He's brought us a lot of stuff here. It has brought us tax increases and it has brought us tax cuts to those who have the most, but the last of the legislature is a thyme, a thyme that is not that of the stamp, it is a thyme of trillero, of trillero fiscalo of tomo and lomo. He cheated on the Spaniards. He's told you one thing, but he's done another. You, Mr Montoro, for this additional reason, must leave the government. Yours isn't sheet and paint, yours is structural. If you don't leave, let's hope they stop you, and they stop you next Friday. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u46	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. If that situation ever occurs, I do not know whether you are going to give it full satisfaction or not, Mr Saura, because you are going to run out of the canteen of your life, not this legislature. What are you going to do without me? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] This would be an issue that should be raised vitally, not in political terms anymore. The Government's programme, which is of course available to and among political groups, says that debtors will have a maximum date to pay their debts if they do not want to appear on the list of debtors and that debtors will have to pay the amounts defrauded by all concepts before there is a final sentence condemning them. When the debtor or the defrauder has paid what he owes, the objective of the Treasury and the Tax Agency will have been fulfilled and, therefore, there is no longer any point in publicizing facts that the person in question has already repaired. In this way we follow the indications of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u48	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON HERICK MANUEL ARTEER CAMPOS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT IN THIS LEGISLATION HAS IMPLEMENTED SUFFICIENT MEASURES AGAINST CORRUPTION IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS? [[File number 180/001337]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u49	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Mr Herick Campos, from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u50	Thank you, President. Does the Government consider that this legislature has sufficiently promoted anti-corruption measures in public administrations?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Campos. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Campos, as the Vice-President of the Government has already recalled this morning, during this parliamentary term the Government has promoted anti-corruption measures that affect not only public administrations but prominent areas of public life, such as political parties and their sources of funding, as well as other organisations receiving public funds, such as trade unions and business organisations. The Government's aim has been to pursue corruption and to combat the conditions that favour it. We are aware that many of the initiatives have arrived when they have arrived. Surely many of the cases we have known these years had not occurred if previous Governments had adopted the rules that have been adopted in this legislature. We are convinced that the lack of, or inadequacy of, prior controls, in addition to the absence of effective measures to avoid the conditions conducive to corruption, are at the root of the large number of cases that we are unfortunately experiencing today. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u53	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Campos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u54	The Royal Spanish Academy defines corruption as the practice of using public functions and means for the economic or other benefit of its managers. According to this definition we believe that no, that has not been done enough, and not only that, but has even been protected in some cases. Your concern - and the example you and the vice president have repeated - is the perception that people have: not really act. That is why they are protected by the Transparency Act, because that law still allows for a Formula 1 contract in the Valencian Community of 170 million euros that is secret - how is it secret a contract of the Public Administration of 170 million euros? - or that a judge had to come to say that the contract signed with the company Valmor, buying it for a euro - that is, with a debt of 50 million euros - was secret too. His Government had supported that. It is good that there will soon be a change of government in the Valencia Community, with Ximo Puig, and we hope that there will also be soon with Pedro Sánchez, so that these secret contracts that so nervous put some of his benches. What is the use of transparency, so much transparency law, so much action that they say they have done, when they have a government delegate to whom they have given objects, according to the press, and who actually has them? Has anyone asked you if you can pass the invoices for these objects or the hunts? It was as easy as that. Not so much transparency law is needed, but the political will to end practices like that. They could have told you: You fractioned, as a counselor of all the councils you've been through, which have been many, many bills. Comrade Serafín - because he was a member of the People's Party - you better go. How can you say that it defends transparency when the General Council of the Judiciary has to draw attention to its Government because it does not put police to attend to the information of the Brugal case? How can you talk about transparency when there is a massive destruction of roles today in all the municipalities and autonomous communities of the People's Party and you do nothing? How are you going to do something, if in 2004, when they left the government, they did the same thing and we find all the offices with all the papers destroyed? That's not transparency. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Campos. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u56	Thank you. Your Honor, as far as I know, when we left the offices in 2004, there was no change in public accounts or an unpaid bill in the public administrations of Spain. When we rejoined the administration at the end of 2011, there was a lot of trade debt outstanding and there were hidden deficits. [[Applauds]] It's the way to manage the public of each other. [[A honourable Member: Wow!]] What we are experiencing these days is the knowledge of the effectiveness of the fight against corruption. Corruption embarrasses us all, but his knowledge also shows us that the institutions in Spain are functioning and that they do not stop because of the relevance of the cases or because of the names of their protagonists. One of the most important initiatives that have been adopted in this legislature is the Law on Transparency in the Public Sector, and I would like to point out to you the full willingness of the Government to promote and promote such transparency and the fact that with this Government there is no impunity and that institutions and the rule of law are working to prosecute the corrupt, whoever they may be. On the other hand, it is important to extend this climate of opinion among citizens... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u57	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GERMÁN RODRIGUEZ SÁNCHEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES YOU CONSIDER THAT YOU ARE USING AN APPROPRIATE USE OF PUBLIC RESOURCES ASSIGNED IN THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE, BY CONTRACTING THE 'ASY OF CLARO' PROGRAMME? [[File number 180/001338]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u58	Question also addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Mr Germán Rodríguez, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, yesterday Spanish Television suspended the broadcast of Mr Buruaga's debate after the absolute failure he has reaped. But this is not just a failure of Mr Buruaga, it is not just a failure of Mr José Antonio Sánchez, the president you have fingered on Spanish Television, it is a failure of the People's Party and the Government, because once again the citizens have turned their backs on the manipulation, propaganda and party television that they have imposed since they arrived at the Government. It is a failure of the People's Party and the Government, because you have put all the political effort into Mr Buruaga landing on public television as it were and at any cost, even by skipping the law. For all this, the question is very easy: do you consider that there has been a good use of public resources when hiring Mr Buruaga's programme? And tell me: How long will they continue to pay for the government's propaganda with the money of all the Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u60	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rodríguez, you will allow me your honor not to go into assessing the decision of the Spanish Radiotelevision programming grid. It is neither my function nor do I consider it to be the function of any minister of the Government of Spain, and I suppose that Mr Zapatero's previous ministers did not either; perhaps they did, perhaps some of them were devoted to these menus, but of course it is not the question. Moreover, it is a programme which, as you say, has been abolished, a programme which has been contracted within the capacity of the governing bodies of Spanish Radio-television. The truth is that, as the Spanish Radio-television Control Commission is in operation in this House, which held a sitting yesterday, I do not understand that this issue is subject to parliamentary scrutiny. I have already told you enough about this, but, in any case, I would like to express the concern of the Government by telling you that I, as the economic and financial head of Spanish Television, am concerned about the weakness of the revenue that is produced in the corporation from the withdrawal of advertising in Spanish Radiotelevision, a decision that corresponded to the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero and that I have already criticized and again criticized this morning in this House. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. You are very concerned about the weakness of your income, but you have cut EUR 250 million a year; that is your consistency, Minister. [[Applauds]] Let's see if we can focus and stop throwing balloons out. You put every year in section 15 of the budgets, which is your ministry's, 281 million euros for Spanish Television to fulfil the function of public service, and that public service has to conform to what the law says and to the objectives set by this Parliament to the corporation through the mandate-framework. And what does the law say? That the information services cannot be outsourced and that they must be 100 per cent of internal production, so that Mr Buruaga's debate should never have reached public television, Minister. But it is also that you, who are the minister of austerity or assume of it, have allowed the money of all the Spaniards to go into the pocket of Mr Buruaga and his producer - 67,000 euros per program - for a rancid and out of date program, which has reaped an absolutely regrettable audience - 5% - and we not only talk about the audience of the program, but have sunk the global audience of Spanish Television every Monday. That's his model of good management. What has happened to Mr Buruaga's debate is a clear symptom of what you have done with public television. You have taken away public television independence, you have taken away 250 million euros a year and you have thrown twenty years on it. That's why it's as it is, with the worst audience data in its history. That is why it has ceased to be the information reference for all citizens, including election nights. Minister, you refuse to end the partisan use of public media, but don't worry, the citizens are going to put you in your place very soon and we will again have an independent and quality public television, at the service of the citizens and not at the service of the People's Party and the business of your friends. [[Several honourable Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u64	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. I've already explained it to you, I don't know how many times in this legislature. [[Rumors]] What are you worried about, that the audience is wrong because it's manipulated? So the supposed manipulator of the audience, which doesn't exist, of course, is failing. I summarize it as follows: There was a socialist government that left the economic capacity of Spanish Broadcasting public entity to give it to its friends in private; that's what happened. I mean, it's not that you're bad public managers, no, it's that what you do is take it away from the public to give it to your friends.., to your TV friend, which is supposed to be the one that's going to support you from outside the left. [[Rumors.-Protests]] That is what the Socialist Party does in government. But no matter what, because what's coming is the ruin of Spain, you are told by the citizens to go home and forget about television audiences. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA OF CARMEN SILVA REGO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE GOVERNMENT intend to make possible the suppression of the ROGATED VOTE SYSTEM FOR THE NEXT GENERAL ELECTIONS? [[File number 180/001339]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u67	Question to the Minister for the Interior by Mrs Carmen Silva, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, my group has raised the need to abolish the requested vote since the beginning of this parliamentary term. We have admitted the error of that electoral change which has made it difficult to exercise a fundamental political right and has assumed that the percentage of the migrant vote has fallen to 3, 4 or 5 %. The near unanimity of this House is ready to agree to its elimination. There's a deal. It is only up to the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group that this just demand can become a reality. There are no excuses for not doing so, it's time for truth, no subterfuges or half truths. That is why I ask you whether the Government intends to make it possible to abolish the requested vote for the forthcoming general elections. We propose to you that you present a legislative initiative within 15 days and that it be dealt with by means of an emergency and a single reading. I expect a strong response from you, I hope you will say clearly whether you accept this proposal which, I repeat, has very much the support of this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Silva. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, you told me not to go with subterfuges or half-truths and I'm going to tell you very clearly. I begin by saying that I have not just understood this apparent contradiction between the fact that from your group and from your party we are asked not to pursue further legislative initiatives and the fact that you are now asking me here to send a bill to be dealt with in one reading and by urgent procedure, and nothing more and nothing less than a bill that would affect the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime. And speaking of subterfuges and half truths, his lordship knows very well, because she was a senator and voted for it in the previous legislature, which is a fairly well-established tradition that the reform of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime is done by broad consensus, not so much as a legislative initiative of the Government, but as a legislative initiative through the proposal of a joint and comprehensive law of the parliamentary groups. This is how the Loreg's current reform was carried out in the last legislature and with a very mature process. It was in September 2008 that the Constitutional Commission unanimously agreed by the parliamentary groups to propose to the plenary the establishment of a subcommittee to reform the Loreg. It took the Constitutional Commission two years to prepare the report that served as the basis for a bill that, on 15 October 2010, was submitted by all parliamentary groups in the House. Finally, on 21 December 2010, this law was passed in Congress, which amended, inter alia, article 75 of the Loreg, following instructions from the Central Electoral Board and the opinions of the Council of State and, consequently, with a very broad parliamentary consensus. If there is such a consensus, let the proposal for a law be presented by the parliamentary groups, as has been done almost always and in any case in this last reform. What I agree with is that the whole House was wrong there, because in fact the participation in the 2008 general elections of voters registered in the census of absent Spanish residents was 31.88%; in the general elections, after the 2011 reform, it fell to 4.95%. The Government is concerned and occupied, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u71	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Silva.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u72	Minister, it has become clear that the Government is neither concerned nor concerned. Your answer reminds me of that radio program that was neither yes nor nothing nor come. It's a flight nowhere. Our question is very clear and our proposal very concrete. Minister, I repeat, they are neither evasive nor subterfuge. In this House there is agreement of the overwhelming majority of Members and Members of the parliamentary groups, except for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, which, by the way, meets with the emigrants - the President of the Xunta de Galicia, Mr Prada and those responsible for the emigration of the ministry do - and deceives them by telling them that he is willing to suppress the requested vote. You do not want to suppress the requested vote. Today, it has become clear in this House: you want to keep the vote impugned. I turn to the emigrants: Let them know that the Government of Spain and the People's Party do not want to suppress the requested vote, they want to maintain it. You've got it so easy. We support them. We believe it is essential that this bill be introduced by the Government. Do it, and if you don't, they'll have lied to you day after day... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u73	Thank you, honourable Member. Question addressed...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u74	How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u75	Minister, you have six seconds, which are yours and I give them to you, I do not take them away. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u76	Thank you. I just want to say, Your Honor, that it was approved in the previous legislature, governing the Socialist Party. All parliamentary groups present this proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. You've taken very good advantage of your time. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE GOVERNMENT DO ON IMPLEMENTATION TO THE DATE OF THE WORK PROGRAMME FOR EMPLOYMENT? [[File number 180/001340]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u78	Question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Mr Rafael Simancas, Member of the Socialist Group, asks.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, last December, just five months after a municipal and autonomous election, you noted that there were many people in difficult situations in Spain. They took out the president of the plasma, adorned La Moncloa, called the cameras and with great trumpet they signed an agreement with the unions to improve the lives of the unemployed. Five months later, Minister, according to official data from the State Employment Public Service, the beneficiaries of the activation programme for employment are 43,994, less than 44,000, as of April 30; now there will be a few more. Madam Minister, we told you then and we confirm it now: an electoral measure, a late measure, an insufficient measure. Mr. Rajoy was talking about 450,000 potential beneficiaries at the party in La Moncloa; you, at the Senate inquiry a few days ago, were talking about 300,000 beneficiaries in a starting stock. Well, minister, no 450,000, no 300,000, no 200,000, no 100,000, only 44,000 as of April 30. Very few, Minister. We told him then and we tell him now: a fiasco. Why? Because the requirements for access to this program are very hard, deliberately hard, unjustly hard. You oblige the beneficiaries of this program to have previously collected the Prodi, the Preparation, the active income of insertion. Minister, why not relax these requirements? Why not allow hundreds of thousands of people in this country who need access to these 426 euros to do so by eliminating these harsh requirements? We ask you formally, Minister. The coverage rate for the unemployed has fallen in this country from 70% in 2011 to 54% in April. Forty-six out of 100 unemployed have no public support. Change the access requirements to this program so that the more unemployed can access it. The just recovery will not be perceived because you change the spokesmen of the Government, but because you treat the workers and the unemployed of this country with justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Simancas, the just recovery and until the end will come with 20 million occupied in Spain and without it re-governing the Socialist Party, ruling the People's Party, which brings employment and opportunities to this country. The unemployed worry us very much, they are our main concern, and that is why we have set in motion, together with Spanish society, a package of reforms to grow and create jobs. That is why there are already fewer unemployed today than when we arrived in the Government in 2011, more than 200,000. In the coming days there will also be more employment than when we arrive at the government, there will be more than 600,000 jobs this year, there were 440,000 last year, Mr Simancas, and in the coming years there will be 20 million occupied, because that is what Spain needs and what the unemployed of this country need: opportunities. We do do social policy. We wanted to start the exit from the crisis by supporting those who needed it the most, the unemployed and the pensioners; that is why we unfrozen the pensions that you had frozen and that is why we have supported the unemployed from the first day by allocating 30 billion euros in the budget for benefits and subsidies each year of this legislature, consolidating the Preparation and making it permanent until the unemployment rate of 20% - they have already benefited more than 525,000 Spaniards - and by launching, with social dialogue, consensus and agreements with the social partners and the autonomous communities, a special activation programme, a programme so that no one will be left behind in the recovery, because you have sent more than 3.5 million people to unemployment and many of them have not yet had the opportunity to recover a job. They, who have it most difficult - long-term unemployed, without income and with family responsibilities - are beginning to have opportunities thanks to everyone's efforts. By the way, I am grateful for the 299 support that this programme had in this House. Mr Simancas, as far as the year goes, of the 270,000 planned for this year - because the rest is planned for 2016 - almost 94,000 have already been requested, of which 70% are already participating in this special activation programme. Mr Simancas, we have dedicated resources - 850 million - to continue creating opportunities for the unemployed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u82	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA PILAR LUCIO CARRASCO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM DO THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM OF THE POLICY OF HIS DEPARTMENT IN THIS LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/001341]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u83	Question to the Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism. The proposal is made by Mrs Pilar Lucio of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you have been in charge of the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism for three and a half years, forty-eight months in which the decisions you have been making have been lethal to the policies for which you are responsible. And I say well, he is responsible, even if he constantly looks to the past to justify his decisions. Your energy policy has been able to stifle an industrial sector such as that of renewable energies and has put and puts at serious risk tourism, for which you are also responsible, on the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands and the Mediterranean coast, with your obsession with fracking and oil exploration. Could you make an assessment of your energy management? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Lucio. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u86	You ask me about an energy balance. The question I asked was about a balance sheet of the entire legislature of the Ministry's subjects, which are as you have said industry, energy and tourism, but also, although not listed in the name, telecommunications. I'll give you the balance. Industry. Today in Spain there is more industry than four years ago. Energy. Today, energy in Spain is more environmentally and economically sustainable than it was four years ago. You will see the evolution of the deficit in the electricity system and see what is the conclusion to which it comes today. Tourism. We're back on the world podium. Today Spain is the third country in terms of the number of international visitors, the second country in terms of the expenditure that these international visitors make in our country, but it is the first country in terms of international tourism competitiveness, according to the report issued three weeks ago by the World Economic Forum. As for telecommunications today, the economy is more digital than it was four years ago. Therefore we can say that it is a balance sheet - everything is improveable - in terms of the four subjects that the department has more than acceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u87	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Lucio.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u88	Minister, I have asked you to go to the bottom of the matter, and I have seen you overfly it. At the moment, you have been taking decisions that are contrary to the interests of our country, to the interests of businesses, large and small, and to the interests of consumers, especially the most vulnerable. Just getting to the government, and relying on non-existent reports, you perpetuated the hatchet to the renewables. This is very serious, Minister. It is an unprecedented deception with tremendously negative consequences for a leading and world-class industrial sector, of which you and all of you presume when you go abroad, but which here you are crushing. As a colophon, they prepare a royal decree to regulate self-consumption, which more than a decree seems to be a deterrent propaganda. What should be a civil right, the right to generate your own energy, has become an impossible for Spanish citizens. You act just the opposite of all the countries in our environment, like the United States or Japan, frustrating the viability of generating and consuming your own energy. Your management has earned the reprimand of all the citizens who see your receipt of light grow, no matter how much you want to deceive us, of the renewable sector, and of all the political groups, including your own political group, who have come to ask you to resign. Stop looking at the past, you take on your responsibilities or I'm afraid others will do it for you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u90	Your honor talks about the evolution of electricity prices and I would like to remind you that between 2004 and 2012, I therefore also include the first year of this legislature, the cumulative increase was 82%, dropped in 2013, and dropped in 2014 for the first time in the last twelve years. Self-consumption. The first time a government in Spain has regulated self-consumption has been by this government with the Electricity Sector Act. We have now forwarded to the National Commission on Markets and Competition the royal decree regulating the procedures. Not only do we fully share self-consumption, but we are putting it into a real decree. Those who consume themselves do not have to pay energy to any operator, they do not have to pay taxes to the State, nor do they have to pay any kind of toll to the network, none. Now, if you apart from self-consumption want, to eventually have connection to the network, to have access to the infrastructures, if you don't mind, you also have to pay for those infrastructures, because otherwise the rest of the consumers would be paying for you that self-consumption. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA GONZALEZ VERACRUZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY AND COMPETITIVENESS: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT PRESENT TO INCREASE COMPETITIVENESS SCIENCE AND INNOVATION? [[File number 180/001342]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u92	Questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness. Firstly, a question from Mrs María González Veracruz of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, how do you intend to increase competitiveness without promoting science and innovation?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u94	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u95	Mr President, Your Honor, Spain is a competitive country. Our exports grow more than international trade, we gain market share in international markets, according to any competitiveness-price indicator Spain gains competitiveness, and also the external sector contributes to growth. This will be the third year in which we will have a balance-of-payments current account surplus, and according to the Monetary Fund projects five more. There'll be eight of them. I would remind you that in 2007 Spain's current account deficit was 10%. Your Honor, the relationship between R & D and competitiveness is not entirely clear; it has much more to do with productivity, which is a different concept from that of competitiveness. Productivity does have to do with R+D+i and that's what we did was avoid the collapse we inherited. We find broken institutions, neglected international commitments, uncoordination, and an unsustainable research career model. As soon as the economic and budgetary situation improved we acted with the main challenges of the system, such as budget optimisation, support for talent, promotion of business R & D and its internationalisation. In short, we have taken steps to ensure that the system is sustainable and contributes to the productivity and future growth of the Spanish economy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. We are very clear to the Socialists how to increase productivity in this country; what we are not so clear is that the minister, responsible for this matter, knows the importance of science and innovation of course in competitiveness and productivity. And I remind you, Minister, that we have left a law on science, technology and innovation approved by the whole House that you have been unable to comply with and implement. It is not that I say so; it has been written by the Economic and Social Council, Cotec, universities, trade unions: science and innovation policy is key - I read textually - to the competitiveness of the economy and also to social welfare, which for us are two concepts that cannot be separated, but at this point, ladies and gentlemen, we already know what the model of the right is, what is its model - very ideologically - in terms of competitiveness and productivity: free dismissal, lower wages, labour poverty, while ours is a very opposite and very opposite: growth, of course, but through knowledge, talent, investment in business, of the digital economy. All that is productivity and it is something you know very little about. They have been wasting the competitiveness - the good - of our country for four years, because they have paralysed the scientific system, because they have abandoned the companies that were innovating, and that with you they have had it every day more difficult, and therefore they have also abandoned the transfer of knowledge. [[Show a document]] The Rajoy government's policy of science and innovation has simply been to destroy the science and innovation that existed in this country and that it was very hard to build both the system, the scientists, the innovators and the previous government, and no matter how much they run now, Minister, they will not wash their faces, like the bad students, at the last moment. The only thing they have done - even though we offered them an agreement on the first day, because this would have to be a country issue, just as education is - has been to choose to empty laboratories, to stand still in the face of the closure of innovative companies. They have chosen to expel scientists; their Government, which said there were enough scientists in this country. In short its mark is that of the lie, and the greatest symbolism that of the state innovation agency. Already in June 2011 - this is June 2015 - they had to have started it. Three years later, lies, lies and lies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u98	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u99	Thank you very much. Once it is established that productivity and competitiveness are different concepts, Your Honor, you know perfectly well that your Government has made very important cuts in R & D+i budgets. This government in a very complicated context safeguarded the system, and as soon as it improved the situation we increased the budgets, being 2015 the third year of increase of endowments. We have recently passed a decree-law that increases 95 million, which will reinforce the main investigative calls that are already being made. We have also agreed that researchers will enjoy a 100 per cent replacement rate, i.e. almost a thousand places of researchers will be hired between OPI and universities this year. In addition, in the coming weeks - as I have already announced on two occasions, and it is already in the process of approval - the decree of the state research agency will be approved, which will optimize resources thanks to improvements in evaluation and control. On the other hand - and also very important - in the CSIC we will execute this year for the first time its management contract, that is, a kind of contract-program, which will really give you the character of agency that the CSIC has, and will be fundamental for its supervision and effectiveness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF ECONOMICS AND COMPETITIVENESS: HOW MUCH MONEY DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RESPONSE OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM LOSS? [[File number 180/001343]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u101	He also asked the Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness, Mr Antonio Hurtado, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u102	Minister, how much aid are lost from those offered to the bank? I would like to know whether you consider the enormous damage not only economic but also moral that these losses entail. I'd also like to know if what he said on his day that bank bailout wouldn't cost the taxpayer money to keep him. [[Show a document]] Was that a miscalculation or another lie from this government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u103	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u104	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The consolidation, recapitalisation and restructuring of the financial system is a fundamental policy, and without it there would be no recovery; and I remind you that the Spanish economy is growing above 3.5%. We have actually injected 40 billion, compared to 30 billion euros that your government injected. Some 6 billion have been recovered from this amount today, but - as you know too, Your Honor - there is still more than 60% of BMN and Bankia's holdings. With regard to the NBM, the FROB has already started a process to give liquidity to its shares - the FROB will not sell immediately, but has to do so before the end of 2017 - and this process will facilitate the future disinvestment of the FROB by complying with our agreements. In the case of Bankia, the entity shall be privatised when market conditions are given. In addition, BFA, Bankia's parent, has approximately $2.4 billion in net assets. We are therefore going to maximise the value of these shares in order - as I have always said - to return to taxpayers as much as possible of the money that has been injected into the institutions, of that €40 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u105	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Hurtado.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u106	Minister, I respect you. Answer the question that is asked. How much money is lost from these aids? This is the last report of the Banco de España, and says that the FROB has already lost more than EUR 50 billion, and that the Deposit Guarantee Fund has lost about EUR 20 billion. [[Show a chart]] Minister, we are going to pay all of our taxes on FROB, and we are going to pay all of the Deposit Guarantee Fund with bank charges, ground clauses, and all the weaving of the financial system. Minister, you want to appear as the firefighter who caused this financial crisis, but I have to remind you with all my respect that you have been an arsonist in this case. You've been the executive president of the Lehman Brothers, who goes bankrupt. You have been the executive president of Lehman Brothers, which trades preferential. You have marketed the participating quotas of the CAM, 292 million euros lost by 50,000 retailers. You have been advisor to Banco Mare Noustrum, which has required EUR 1,645 million of public aid and 23% of your portfolio has a floor clause. Minister, that was you: an active and active part of this huge financial crisis. Minister, of your measures and of the code of good practice the result has been a maximum of launches in this country. [[Show a chart]] Of the preferences it has returned to you 1 euro out of every 3 and obviously there are still 3,200,000 ground clauses. Oh, my God! Don't let them give you the Eurogroup, as far as I can go. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u107	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hurtado, you follow with the depth of your arguments. Not one euro of the 30 billion injected by the socialist government is going to be recovered, but that is not the main criticism; the main criticism is that no restructuring was done, nothing was changed from the Spanish financial system, and we had to act in 2012 and do in six months what had not been done in three years. Of course, I repeat it again: what has been done has been to inject 40 billion euros. At the moment the Spanish banking system is giving credit and making the Spanish economy - I repeat - grow above 3.5% in the first half of this year, as well as making all new credit flows positive. Your Honor, you value, for example, the European Commission's reports on the financial assistance programme; you will say that today the Spanish banking system has absolutely nothing to do with what you left us in 2012, which was the fundamental problem, which dragged us towards Spain's intervention. That is why, Your Honor, I recommend that you leave yourself with personal matters - which is always the same in your case - and really consider what the situation of the Spanish banking system is today and what it was in 2011. Today we have a banking system that supports recovery, which gives credit under much better conditions, and which is obviously behind - as I said earlier - that the Spanish economy in this first half, despite the inheritance received, will grow above 3.5%. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u109	Thank you, Minister. - OF MR CARLES CAMPUZANO I CANADAS, OF THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT DO WITH REGARD TO THE MOST RECENT DATA PUBLISHED BY THE INE IN RELATION TO CHILD POVERTY? [[CONVERGENCY OF THE UNION]] [[File number 180/001332]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u110	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. First of all, he asks Mr Carles Campuzano, from the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the 2014 INE quality of life survey - with 2013 data - indicates that the poverty risk rate for children under the age of sixteen is 30.1%, i.e. 7.9 points higher than the overall population and 3.4 points higher than in 2012. In the case of households with one adult and one, two or more children, it is increased to 42%. The question is what the Government intends to do to take these figures seriously, this reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u112	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government takes this reality very seriously from the outset, in fact it is the one that has motivated its action throughout the entire legislature. The survey to which you refer, of living conditions, published by the National Institute of Statistics is a picture of the situation of Spanish families in 2013, and accounts for this terrible situation of increasing the rate of risk of poverty. Moreover, as a result of five consecutive years of job destruction, 2013 is the end of this critical period of the Spanish economy with this brutal social effect. The link between the destruction of employment and the increase in poverty is very expressive, especially because the fastest growing index is the number of people living in low-employment households, which in 2009 was 7.6% and increased to 17.1% in 2013 - according to the 2014 survey, with 2013 data. We therefore live five years of deep destruction of employment with a social consequence, which is known. From there the reforms of the Government have succeeded in changing the economic situation and initiating a recovery. The labour force survey for the first quarter of this year already indicates that there are 185,000 fewer households with all their members unemployed than before. Therefore we are turning the situation around, jobs are being created, and that is what is going to reverse poverty rates in Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u114	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, it is unemployment and the crisis, but it is not just unemployment and the crisis. In 2004, in a splendid economic situation, we were 25.4% of the child poverty rate, we only had Romania and Bulgaria below. This indicates that the problem of child poverty in Spain is more fundamental, and that it has to do with the functioning of our welfare state. Unlike most European Union States, Spain does not have a universal social security child benefit. The rest of the countries to combat this reality have such policies. The Convergence and Union Group has put before it in this legislature a proposal for a law not to go towards a universal provision, but a proposal for a law that would allow us to have a powerful instrument to combat child poverty. You know that the child benefit is 290 euros a year for families with incomes below 11,500 euros, an insufficient figure that can never solve the problem of child poverty because of its amount, and also for those families with fewer resources. It's not effective. They rejected that proposal, told us it was the letter of the Magi, and in the Family Plan they approved about fifteen days ago they talk about studying the improvement of that benefit. Mr Alonso, we need to go deeper into this issue and assume that the poverty of these children today predicts their premature abandonment of the education system, surely their school failure, their greater chances of not finding employment when they are young, surely less opportunities to build a successful career, surely more need for social assistance when they are adults, surely less chance of paying the taxes that allow them to finance... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u116	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Campuzano, what shows your intervention is that we basically agree on the lines of work to be undertaken, which are also included in the documents approved by the Government, both in the National Action Plan for Social Inclusion and in the Comprehensive Family Support Plan, where we want to work on two lines: the first is to improve the basic income system, the competence of which is exercised by the autonomous communities, but which is very unequal throughout Spain and has insufficient coverage, and the second is to study the equalization and approximation of our child support system in charge of what happens in the rest of Europe. This is reflected in both plans. I want to state the deep link between employment and exclusion and employment and the increase in the poverty rate, but it is true that Spain has structural problems from a social point of view and that the Government has addressed them. One of the important approaches has been in educational reform, reducing the drop-out rate, which is happening in schools. Therefore more children will have the opportunity to have training that gives them a chance to work in the future. In short, they are the same lines that you set out the plans... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PLANNED TO TAKE MEASURES TO COMBAT CHILD POVERTY? [[File number 180/001335]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u119	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality by Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what steps does the Government intend to take to combat child poverty?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u121	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Heredia, the government has been taking steps to combat poverty and social exclusion of families, especially those who have children in their care. We have put forward measures in all fields, which we have now reinforced with the Comprehensive Family Support Plan, which you know. I referred in my previous speech to the National Action Plan for Social Inclusion. He knows that he proposed the creation of a non-existent poverty fund, which we have been increasing over the years, and we have also prioritized the fight against exclusion and child poverty in grant programmes under 0.7%. We therefore act on the recommendation of the European Union that investing in children means breaking the cycle of disadvantages, protecting children, supporting their families, for example, in the latest tax reform with support that will reach more than 750,000 families in Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u123	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u124	Minister, many international bodies have denounced Rajoy's policies as increasing poverty and inequality in Spain. Today there are many more families with all their members unemployed. Today half of the unemployed do not have unemployment coverage. One in three workers earned less than EUR 645 and his Government had brutally cut social policies. In sum, 40% of families do not arrive at the end of the month. Today in Spain there are 13,600,000 people at risk of poverty. Are these the vigorous roots Rajoy was talking about? And it is that poverty - worst of all - has a child's face. This situation has increased significantly and consecutively in recent years. Situations like the mother with two girls who don't have to give them either for breakfast or for dinner, who eat in school thanks to a dining scholarship, and who don't have to eat on weekends, that's why she asks for help from her neighbors and friends. Or those parents with two babies who spent the winter with candles because they couldn't afford the light, and who at ten o'clock in the night filled bottles of hot water to get into bed until dawn the next day. It is indecent that Spain is at the head of poverty in Europe, together with Bulgaria, Romania and Greece, and it is intolerable that more than 35% of those under the age of sixteen are in this situation. Minister, your Government lives outside the drama of people without a job, of people who have been evicted or of children living in poverty. Understand, child poverty has to be a matter of state, and you know just as well as I do that the Family Plan is a toast to the sun, which does not have financial resources or concrete measures to combat child poverty. The policy is to set priorities and his Government's priorities have been to support the banks, the big incomes, and the big fraudsters in this country. The priorities of a decent Government would have been to support families and to combat and combat child poverty. It is shameful that one in three children in our country is on the brink of poverty, and that you, your Government, do nothing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u125	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad you're developing this sensitivity, Mr. Heredia. I hope it lasts forever. They didn't have it when they were in the government. I explained earlier to Mr Campuzano how the situation of increasing poverty is the result of five years of intense job destruction, and how the economic policy that the People's Party Government has already implemented has turned that situation around, and in the last EPA we saw that 185,000 households came out of that heading of households with all their unemployed members. We also act on the effects, and we do so in coordination with all the autonomous communities. I will tell you that between 2008 and 2013 the number of recipients of minimum income for insertion increased by 81% - therefore we act to alleviate the effects - and the total number of new recipients increased by 136%. All administrations are making a great effort to alleviate the effects of poverty on Spanish households. We know the causes and how to combat them. Economic growth that creates jobs must be encouraged, and this must reach all families. All you see in this is an opportunity for political revenue, you are unable to assume the responsibility you had in the crisis. I tell you one thing, Mr Heredia: the best thing you can do to help resolve the situation is not to make nonsense or strange pacts to change the economic situation in Spain. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u127	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u128	Question by the Socialist Group on the need for fair growth. Mr Moscoso del Prado has the floor for his defence. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u129	Mr President, Minister, my group has decided to present this question of just growth because we do not share the euphoria with which the government assumes economic recovery, a euphoria that does not correspond to reality. The Government cannot continue with an absolutely unfair economic and social policy, with a growth model based on precarious jobs and low wages that puts the sustainability of the welfare state at risk and increases inequality. Inequality is undoubtedly the key word for this recovery, a recovery, and a government policy that weakens public services with its cuts, and disapproves of the social majority, a majority that suffers the effects of the crisis, a model that generates poverty, another key word in this recovery. It is a model that creates serious doubts about its sustainability in the medium and long term, because it does not contribute to improving productivity or expanding the productive base, and it does not allow the economic structure, companies that generate employment, to grow by generating quality, productive and stable employment indefinitely. It is also fair growth, Minister, because the right word is sustainable. The most just and egalitarian societies are those with equal labour markets, with companies based on quality employment in which human capital and fixed capital prevail, which invest in their children and young people; societies that have the essential ingredients to grow and generate prosperity, knowledge and, above all, an institutional framework of quality, because in this legislature, democratic regulatory institutions have come out very weakened; societies that predispose well. Reforms have reduced our economy's ability to predispose by widening the gap between the disadvantaged and the disadvantaged, between the rich and the poor, so that equal opportunities are reduced and there are fewer and fewer opportunities. Mr Minister, it is clear that we are growing, you have explained it today and we are seeing it every day. The Spanish economy is growing driven by exogenous factors, especially the depreciation of the euro, the ECB's monetary policy and also the fall in oil prices. However, Spanish GDP fell by 8 points compared to the 2008 peak and is still 5 points below its potential GDP, so it is normal for us to grow more than the EU average. It was just missing! Our potential GDP is higher. However, our economy is still far from that potential GDP and, as the International Monetary Fund recognizes, you and all the economic institutions of the world, our potential growth, endogenous growth capacity, is only 1.2 %. We had an opportunity to discuss this the other day in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Moreover, you say so yourself, you recognize it in your stability programme. The potential growth is very low and the measures that would enable it to be raised are clear from its absence, both on the government's agenda and on the European agenda. That requires more R+D+i, because our innovative delay is huge. More investment is needed in the company, more productive activity. We have just heard a question on this issue. Education is not enough. We invest in human capital, but because there is no productive capacity installed, because there are no companies or sectors capable of using that human capital, that human capital has to leave the country. Minister, things aren't as good as you say. Structural unemployment is enormous, private indebtedness is very high and all this is a huge burden to grow sustainably in the medium and long term. We have good short-term flows, but stocks are still very worrying. If productivity doesn't grow, we'll never improve wages. In the medium and long term, productivity is the best indicator of both wages and future GDP growth. In the last month we have seen employment and GDP grow at the same rate, so productivity is growing zero, and industrial productivity is also growing at rates close to zero, which is very worrying. Low-productivity sectors, low-value-added services and, again, construction are growing, which is worrying. For this reason, many analysts have described this growth in employment in recent months as a small electoral cycle because of the investments and public spending that have taken place in recent months. Mr Minister, you have chosen an unfair growth model, based on precarious jobs and low wages, the so-called internal devaluation, which is not only not sustainable because it will endanger the welfare state, but it will endanger our model of a cohesive and equal European society; a welfare state which you have merchandised - I do not have much time to get into it - with quotas, with less education grants, with co-sponsorship, with a reduction in the quality of public services and with a fall in the coverage of the unemployment rate, for example, from 80% of the inheritance you cite up to 54.8 today. There are fewer beneficiaries of unemployment, less average expenditure and less support for active policies and, of course, much less redistribution in education, health and dependency. So there is worse predisposition and much less redistribution. Our country has become poorer. We are the second country in Europe with the most child poverty after Romania. 22% of the population live below the poverty line and 45% of the unemployed live below the poverty line. The risk of poverty is the largest in the European Union, and for the first time, according to the latest INE living conditions survey, the average income of a retired person is higher than the average income of an occupied person. If we look at the statistics of how they arrive at the end of the month, we see that more and more difficulties are coming at the end of the month in all stages of poverty. Of course, in the last two stages there has been a huge increase, it is the poorest who have suffered the most from this crisis. At the same time, Minister, this euphoria of the government is accompanied by a great propaganda effort to try to convince us that there is no alternative to your model, that you will continue with your road map, as you said yesterday: either we or chaos, insist. Moreover, they claim that the only risk that exists for such an unjust, unequal and unsustainable economic recovery is the political situation. However, Minister, what creates instability are the social consequences of the crisis, the consequences of the poor institutional governance that you have set in motion. The citizens know this very well and that is why they voted for what they voted for two weeks ago. That is why we Socialists today want to talk about the risks of recovery; a recovery with many risks and which is not sustainable. I remind you of some data: employment is still 15% lower than at the start of the crisis; only 6% of contracts are indefinite; labour reform has allowed, thanks to precariousness, more people to work but there are not many more real jobs, as work has been distributed; the collection of social security, for example, increased by only 1% in 2014, despite the fact that employment has grown by 2.9%; Spain, at the same time, is the country of the European Union which has the greatest primary deficit still in public accounts, despite the brutal adjustment that has been made in public expenditure and in redistributive expenditure. Even if he says otherwise, the external contribution to growth is negative and will continue to be negative. His talk about competitiveness is not sustained in the medium and long term and, of course, after the brutal adjustment and internal devaluation that we have suffered, returning to negative contributions from the external sector is very worrying. Minister, the International Monetary Fund, with which we Socialists are also meeting, is mistaken in much of its proposals. The recipe he has proposed for more co-payments, cheaper layoffs and more VAT will imply even more inequality and will - if it is put into effect - be a new adjustment centered again on the middle class and the working class, which will have even less income available. We do not share an analysis of the International Monetary Fund that forgets any consideration of equity, social justice or does not speak of poverty. However, the International Monetary Fund is right when it says that the very high level of unemployment is unacceptable and that too many vulnerabilities and too many structural problems are maintained: long-term growth is not sustainable; private debt has not been reduced; confidence has not increased because you have managed the accounts as you have managed them; there are not enough active employment policies in place; the duality of the labour market is worrying; businesses are still too small and the Government does not strongly support the increase in their size. Of course, the fund agrees with us when it says that they do nothing to increase the productivity of the economy in the medium term. It also talks about the absence of measures for the long-term unemployment and the unemployment of young people, or it requires a real second chance law that ends with the one that you have presented, and that we are now debating, as it presents unacceptable discrimination between self-employed and entrepreneurs, true entrepreneurs, and commercial societies in terms of treatment according to the different types of credit. I'm talking about 800,000 people who are in debt up to their eyebrows, our real entrepreneurs. Minister, is recovery sustainable like this? How do you plan to raise our potential growth? How are they going to improve productivity? You have no answers, just worry about the mirage of short-term growth. We grow thanks to exogenous reasons, to the global cycle on which there are many uncertainties, many volatility. We do not know what is going to happen to the American economy, to the central economies of Europe, and we grow thanks to our modest endogenous growth, which everyone calculates at around 1%. There are many serious and objective doubts. Moreover, we grow unjustly, unequally, generating poverty and leaving so many people behind. I'm done now, but first I'll mention elements that are important. You in your stability programme want public spending in 2018 to be the smallest in Spain in the European Union, together with Lithuania, Latvia and Romania; you want to reduce public spending on health by over 1 point in four years, from 6.3% to 5.3%, and in education from 4.7% to 3.7%. There will be no cohesion, no welfare, no redistribution and no increase in productivity. Minister, you have renounced your strong influence on Europe, so that Europe can really invest in growth policies, investment policies, policies that help businesses, entrepreneurs, SMEs and policies that can create quality jobs and end this unequal duality. You have implemented an unjust and wrong economic policy, but now, at the end of the legislature, you want to rectify. They will never recognize it, but austerity - which was avoidable - has triggered a social tragedy that could have been avoided. Now, all of a sudden, Moncloa has sent a document to Brussels which we have no knowledge of and which we have not seen in this House, a document which seems to be previous, which is trying to accommodate the four Presidents of Europe and which is going to talk about a radical change in European governance, as my group has been asking for for years. Eurobonds, a real Juncker plan, fiscal policies that complement monetary policy, countercyclical policies capable of compensating for austerity errors, an unemployment subsidy, and even you are now calling for a different roadmap for the European Central Bank to be set in other macroeconomic imbalances outside of inflation. This shows that they have had no initiative and that they are now turning 180 degrees. We also believe that its institutional and regulatory approach has been insufficient. They have not directed economic activity towards sectors capable of creating quality employment and regulation continues to protect those where precarious employment is created and where the basis for an unfair recovery is laid. We must advocate a fair recovery; we need an alternative economic policy that modernises the institutions, which faces the problems of inequality, poverty, low productivity, high structural unemployment, precarious employment and public and private indebtedness, and for this we need a radical change, which is what my group advocates in this inquiry and which we will be defending today and in the weeks to come. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Moscoso. Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, I am really glad that you are asking this question at this time, following the simile of the questions already very much. At this time, as you know, the International Monetary Fund, to which you quoted, has just reviewed the growth of the Spanish economy upwards and says: The Spanish economy has recovered vigorously and employment is growing with the support of the reforms carried out. The adoption of sound economic policies has allowed the recovery of confidence - verbatim, Your Honor -. In the same vein, its head in the mission of the International Monetary Fund for Spain stated: The future of the Spanish economy in the short term is bright and contrasts with forecasts for other European countries. Spanish society - and this is very important - has made great efforts and can be proud of what it has achieved. The OECD has just revised its forecasts for Spain for the fourth time in a row and assures us in its report: Spain has launched a coherent set of structural reforms whose fruits are particularly evident in the labour market, which shows better behaviour than in the past. Recovery has been strengthened and expanded. The Spanish economy will grow above the euro area in the next two years. And his secretary general, José Ángel Gurría, said: Spain is the example of how reforms work. The European Commission stated last May in its report on economic forecasts: growth is accelerating thanks to the improvement of the labour market, the best financial conditions and renewed confidence. And the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, Mr Moscovici, said: Our forecasts show a strong and strong recovery in growth in Spain, with a reduction in unemployment. Your Honor, you were talking about fair growth, although you later said that you were basically talking about sustainable growth over time. For starters, I'd just tell you a question, and I'm sure you'll agree with me because you're a reasonable person. Your Honor, what is always unfair is a recession; that is what generates poverty and what generates inequality, and I will try to prove it by analysing the evolution of the crisis since 2008. I think that the crisis can be divided into three periods: one from beginning until 2012, then there is another that goes from 2012 until mid-2013 and the last one goes from mid-2013 until the end of this year, in which we practically already have projections for next year. I will give you some data, Your Honor, because sometimes the memory is short and selective and I think it is very important to remember a number of issues. Between the beginning of the crisis and the end of 2011 and the beginning of 2012 GDP fell by 5.3 points, the destruction of employment was 2.6 million occupied and the reduction in consumption was much higher than the fall in GDP, it was almost 9 %. Do you know, Your Honor, how much the number of homes with all your unemployed members has increased? 1.250.000. There we have one of the key poverty indicators. The number of long-term unemployed, which is one of the great setbacks in our labour market and which is a reminder of future growth - as you will agree with me - increased in this period - from the start of the crisis to the end of 2011 - by 2,250,000 people, the public deficit increased from 2% to 9,4 % in 2011 and the average CPI was 2,3 %. You said before - and this is a fallacy, you know exactly as I do - that Spain grows as a result of exogenous factors. I will remind you, Your Honor, how much oil price fell between 2008 and 2009. Do you know how much it fell? Seventy-five percent. Do you know how much the euro depreciated? Twenty-two percent. And do you know how much public debt the European Central Bank bought us in 2011? EUR 42 billion. And there was not a single year of recovery, unlike in other countries. Therefore, I think it is good for you to reflect on what happened from 2008 to the end of 2011 because there are all the scars of the current crisis, even there are wounds that are still open. The inequality and poverty that you are currently commenting on is a consequence of that fall in GDP, it is the deepest and longest crisis the economy has had since virtually the Spanish civil war, and you know that. Let's go to the second period. The second period runs from 2012 to mid-2013. GDP continues to fall, almost an additional 3 %; employment continues to be destroyed, 1.2 million; the risk premium increases; we are leaving - according to Target2 - EUR 40 billion of deposits from Spanish banks and the average CPI is 2 %. The point is that action is being taken here. We acted on the banking sector, which was a hemorrhage that we had and that dragged us, as I said before, to the situation of rescue and intervention of Spain; we forced to increase the supplies to the banks; we injected 40 billion; we created the Sareb, and other very important measures were taken such as labor reform. You are seeing - then perhaps it would be good for you to comment on the measures taken at the moment - what the French Government, Mr Valls, announced yesterday, and the measures that the Italian Government has also taken, which, I repeat, are heading in the right direction from the labor point of view and which are quite similar to those taken by Spain in 2012. In addition, we reform the markets for goods and services. From there, the situation was turned around, Spain's intervention was avoided and confidence indicators began to improve since mid-2012. Look at Eurostat's economic sentiment index, look at the CIS confidence index, the Centre for Sociological Research, look at, for example, the OECD's advanced indicator, in historical peaks, which bounces from mid-2012 and starts to rise. The turn has been an unprecedented turn. Since mid-2013 and making a prudent growth projection for this year, Spain will for the first time recover almost 4.5 points of GDP. In 2016, pre-crisis income levels will be recovered. Annualised growth currently in the Spanish economy exceeds 3.5 %. We have had 0.9% growth in the first quarter and we will have in the second quarter a growth that at least, but quite likely, will be higher in quarterly terms than we had in the first quarter. Even Airef has already indicated annualised growth, in terms of year-on-year, in the third quarter of 3,7 %. Who would have told you and me, Mr. Moscoso? Who would have told us in the years when only Spain was talking about intervention, in the years when only black men came, in the years when confidence was on the ground and we were Europe's main problem? At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish economy is growing above 3.5% and will create more than 600,000 jobs, according to the EPA; take the data. If we take the data from the employees, and leave the self-employed out, more than 60% are indefinite contracts and we also have practically an affiliation behavior that follows, as you know perfectly well, in acceleration. These are the indicators of the Spanish economy network at this time. You were also talking about evolution. In 2014, in real terms, for the first time, the disposable income of Spanish families has increased - not for a long time, for six years - and we are making it possible with a reduction in the public deficit and a balanced contribution from the different sources of economic growth. This is therefore sustainable growth. If you look at our stability programme, what is projected is that the growth of the Spanish economy is going to be between 2.5% and 3% in the coming years, with nominal growth going to be around 4% or 4.5%, with a surplus in eight years, according to the International Monetary Fund, of the current balance of payments account, in which there was not yet a good distinction between competitiveness and productivity, and I am convinced that you know it perfectly well because competitiveness and productivity are different issues, because there are very productive economies that are not competitive and vice versa. That is a structural change, that is sustainability, because it is fundamentally linked to an inflation situation that is going to be very moderate. At present the situation of the Spanish economy is of historical maximums, according to qualitative indicators - take the data of the CIS, of the European Commission -; it is also of maximums according to the advanced indicator of the OECD. Take the MIP indicators, which show that the second quarter is going to be stronger than the first; take the sales of large companies or the sales of durable consumer goods, as is the case with cars. In short, Your Honor, the turn of the Spanish economy is unique; I am even convinced that you, who know of the economy, are surprised by it. You would never have expected that a situation in which there was an economy at the point of intervention, with GDP falling above 2%, with employment destruction above 700,000 jobs per year, with doubts about its banking system, public accounts and competitiveness, could only be turned around in three years as has been done in this country. This is the most intense turn of all OECD countries in recent years. I repeat that growth I do not know if it will be fair or unfair, according to its terminology - then it has talked about sustainable growth, because the thing about justice or injustice always contains an assessment -, but what I can tell you - and that is most important - is that what really generates wounds, inequality and, therefore, is extremely unfair are recessions, and for recession the one we had from the year 2008 until the end of 2011. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u132	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Moscoso.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we sincerely believe that at this stage of the crisis, its exit and the cycle, they have not yet understood the nature of the depth of the crisis and why it occurred. They continue to believe that we can abandon the recession by an old route that in previous cycles led us to the crisis. What is happening in these months is very similar to what happened in the previous economic cycle 1993-2008 - you ruled between 1996 and 2004 - on which the foundations were laid not only for the financial crisis, which we are still paying its consequences and a huge social cost, but also for the destruction of the productive system and of the commitment to sectors of activity where we do not create solid, stable structures capable of creating that society of inclusive well-being, which predisposes well, to which I referred earlier. Therefore, when comparing the Spanish model with what is happening in France, it must be borne in mind that the French economic and productive structure has nothing to do, unfortunately for us, with our own. So you have to be serious and count things as they are. At the same time, they have not only failed to understand the nature of the crisis and have chosen a different path from what we all recommended and which they did not then ask - in fact, we would have liked the ECB to have done in 2009, 2010 and 2011 what it has done now with Mr Draghi - but now they also do not ask. As I explained at the end of my speech, the change that Europe is having towards policies closer to those that the Socialist Group has always called for is a change that little or nothing owes to your Government, to you and to your position and that of President Rajoy in the European Council. It has been other governments, analysts and other economists who have managed to turn Europe slightly, those who have managed to get Draghi to launch the quantitative easying and those who have achieved a moderate Juncker plan, but a Juncker plan at the end of the day. They have also not understood the importance of equality, of the social consequences of the crisis for Spanish citizens, and are being told every day. Poverty statistics, unemployment statistics, precarious statistics, statistics that have not improved since 2011 or since you came to the Government, statistics that show the profound rupture that has occurred in our society between the disadvantaged and the disadvantaged, between the employed and the pensioners, between the young and the long-term unemployed and those who are busy. Of course we understand the difference between competitiveness and productivity. We want to improve the competitiveness of the Spanish economy by improving productivity and not by internal devaluation and precariousness and dismantling the welfare state and redistributing worse and less, as you are doing. The doubts we raise - I think they are serious and solvent - about the sustainability and growth of the economy are not exclusive to us. That is what the substance says in its report, says the Commission, the OECD... Even Airef's latest report clearly states that it is to be seen that from 2016 onwards internal growth engines will replace external engines that have little or nothing to do with government action, as it has been. That is why we are proposing a radical change in economic policy, to move towards fair growth, to eradicate inequality and poverty and to ensure that it is sustainable, to be achieved through appropriate economic policy, through productivity, which is the way to achieve better wages, better jobs and so that all Spanish citizens can see their vital aspirations realized, which are to live in a cohesive, stable society, with few inequalities, where human capital and intangible values, a post-industrial society, such as Japanese society and societies that predispose well. After all, it is the European society that we want to preserve, which is compatible with competitiveness, with efficiency and with dynamic and healthy businesses. That is why we propose many things: to reorient fiscal policy towards a fiscal policy that will help to improve that productivity and to co-ordinate the welfare state and strengthen it; we want to review in depth the tax system - all this will be presented in the motion that we will be discussing next week as a result of this inquiry -; we want to ensure the effective competition of the markets for goods and services, because you do not do so, there are still too many sectors close to or close to you where corporatism lies at large; we also want to support companies, that self-employed entrepreneurs benefit from the second chance law, and not only large corporations and commercial corporations, and of course that public investment will be recovered to encourage private innovation, research, R+d+I, to take that backward path, lost in innovative terms. We want another model of labour relations, where trade unions and employers can dialogue and negotiate more freely and flexibly than before, and of course we want more investment in children, in zero-to-three education and in gender equality policies so that there are actually non-transferable paternity permits and a more egalitarian model of society. All this remains to be done and these are the reasons why we are very concerned about their euphoria and believe it to be unjustified in explaining economic growth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u134	Thank you, Mr. Moscoso. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not know whether the government is euphoric, but I do not know what you will say about the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the European Commission or private analysts when they raise all the growth projections. The literal quotes I've read before were from all these institutions. Your Honor, you speak first of all of sustainability; that is, you know perfectly well, as I do, that - as was the case in the years 2006, 2007 and 2008 - the foundations of a deep recession were being formed and yet the economy was formally still growing and generating employment but it was unsustainable growth. Now it's quite the opposite and I'm going to tell you why, Your Honor, and you know it exactly as I do. What were the accumulated imbalances of the Spanish economy? First, it was private debt that peaked in the years 2010 and 2011 and since then has fallen to more than 40 points of GDP, i.e. the Spanish private sector has untied. Secondly, in the external sector this is going to be the third year with a balance of payments current account surplus. What I said earlier, the International Monetary Fund projects five more years, eight years in a row. This is the first time that we have three years of current account surplus of the balance of payments in our history, which was always the factor that strangled our growth. Something similar is happening with competitiveness. You are seeing how our exports of goods and services, which are doing so above international trade, grow, we gain market share, etc. And then there's inflation, another traditional imbalance. A few months ago the risk was deflation, we said no and it is being seen that negative inflation is getting smaller and that we will end the year at positive rates, although our projection is that on average inflation will continue at negative rates. But the most important thing, Your Honor, is the change that has taken place, the turn that has taken place. The Spanish economy was a destitute economy, if I may say so, in 2012. Why? There was no one, we lost deposits with unprecedented intensity. I always say on these issues that between January and August EUR 25 billion was taken out of deposits from Spain and the rich had taken the money before. On the other hand, we had a situation in the banking sector that you know perfectly well. What killed Spain and generated all the uncertainties about Spain was the interrelationship between banking risk and macroeconomic risk. It was said that more provisions had to be made, that assets were not well valued and that they also needed capital. All the reforms were made, provisions were injected, Sareb was created, and the Spanish banking sector has now passed with note the ECB's review, both from the point of view of asset valuation and from the point of view of stress tests. You talk about equality, I go back to the same thing again and you know it perfectly well as I do. Spain's social wounds at the moment stem from the longest, most intense, most complex crisis we have had in our history. I said earlier, GDP between 2008 and the end of 2011 fell by 5.5 points, but consumption fell further and credit markets were also closed. The rich usually don't need bank financing to buy a car or change the furniture of the house, it's another guy and that's completely closed and that's what's reopening right now. Therefore - and this is the fundamental issue, bear in mind - the foundations are now being laid. I've always said, we got out of the recession a long time ago, almost eight quarters ago, but we haven't gotten out of the crisis yet. We will reach the level of income we had before the start of the crisis at the end of next year if, in fact, the correct recipes are applied. It is not that I generate any kind of fear, it is that the International Monetary Fund has said it, or the OECD has said it motu proprio. And if you see the analyses of the different investment houses, etc., they all say - even rating agencies - that the main risk for Spain is the reversal of reforms. So don't deny the reality, the reality is there. I fully understand the political debate, Mr Moscoso, but bear in mind that at the moment the Spanish economy is growing above 3.5%, more than 600,000 jobs will be created, it is done with balance, and the growth of exports of goods and services will see you evolve in the coming months, you will actually see how this economy is a sustainable economy, which is on a completely different platform and, as the head of the mission of the International Monetary Fund said, we had to make Spanish society proud. We were on the edge. I have my opinion of what happened before and now I'm not going to repeat it, but we were on the edge. Have the courage - because it would be welcome - to recognise that Spain is now in a completely different position, that it is perceived completely differently in the world, that we have ceased to be the main problem in the euro area and that we are currently leading growth in Europe. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u136	Thank you, Minister. - THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON SUSTAINABILITY AND FINANCING OF THE HEALTH SYSTEM. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 172/000319]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u137	Next point: Urgent inquiry by the Catalan Parliamentary Group into the sustainability and financing of the health system. [[Convergence and Union]] Mrs Tarruella intervenes on her behalf.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have started this current legislature since Convergence i Unió by asking the government about the sustainability and financing of the health system and almost finished this legislature, and as things have happened so far, we are once again under an obligation to put this new question back to the government on this same subject. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the transfers to the Autonomous Communities, health has suffered from a problem of its structural financing, to which the economic crisis has recently been added. The different models of health financing that existed between 1981 and 2001 did not just respond to the needs of economic resources to meet a demand for growing health services as a result, on the one hand, of population ageing and, on the other, of the introduction of new medical technologies. A sample of this was the various extraordinary financial consolidation operations that had to be used to eliminate the growing health debt. This problem is even more serious for those autonomous communities that took on transfers as Catalonia more time ago, which took on them thirty-four years ago, since the State stopped investing in health infrastructure in these communities, being this cost borne by health services, while the autonomous communities that took on the competences in 2002 did so with already renewed infrastructure. Since 2002, health financing has also become part of the overall autonomous funding model, but current data show that the 2002 and 2009 funding models have not solved the structural deficit of the National Health System. Moreover, this has been compounded, as we mentioned earlier, by the fall in public revenue as a result of the economic crisis and by the need to meet the scenarios of the public deficit. The autonomous communities have already taken all possible measures between 2011 and 2014 to adjust health spending in the light of their limited room for manoeuvre, but even so the autonomous budgetary health scenarios remain very deficient because these spending adjustments have only offset the budgetary reduction resulting from the crisis. At the beginning of the legislature, it was proposed by Convergence i Unified the creation of a subcommission to discuss in depth this sustainability of the health system and seek consensus solutions among all. The subcommission was created but, just as it began its course, we were given the famous Decree 16/2012, which twisted all the plans and works that were to be started. In the end, this subcommission concluded agreements between the Basque People's Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and our Convergence i Unió Group, but, by the way, when does the Government intend to comply with these conclusions? Because so far no measures have been implemented. I will continue to show, without going into the criticisms, the forms and the background of this famous royal decree-law, as we have so many times done, our disagreement with the famous Decree 16/2012. I would like to focus on one of the concrete proposals for amending this royal decree and which we thought to Convergence i Unió a priori could be positive, since we were hopeful that it would be good; I am referring to the creation of the Assistance Guarantee Fund, the FOGA. It should be borne in mind that health expenditure accounts for more than one third of the autonomous budgets. In addition, the change in the system of financing the care of displaced persons, which since 2013 has become extrabudgetary, has meant for the National Health System the removal of resources from the Health Cohesion Fund previously provided by the State and which must now be compensated between autonomous communities, with the aggravating effect that its accounts, mostly in these autonomous communities, are deficient. This implies that the autonomous communities receiving displaced patients have serious difficulties in receiving the corresponding compensation from the autonomous communities that derive from their patients. It is therefore another way of exacerbating the deficit. That said, I would like to make these two funds available: the Health Cohesion Fund and the Assistance Guarantee Fund, the FOGA, so that we can all be clear about what benefits they cover, what is compensated and what is not, how it is compensated and the current situation of outstanding debts in relation to these funds, in particular with Catalonia, which, of course, is what we have in terms of the actual and updated figures. A clear example of the late implementation of these measures is precisely this Assistance Guarantee Fund. I know - I am afraid you will tell me, Minister - that you have already paid Catalonia a sum of money from this fund, but it is simply a part of the debt and covers only prescriptions for pharmaceutical expenditure, without entering into this funding and in what has been charged neither primary assistance nor hospital pharmaceutical assistance nor hospital assistance nor emergency assistance. This remains to be done, and the autonomous communities do not know how to bill because it has not just been launched. With regard to the Health Cohesion Fund, which I have said since 2013 has become extra-budgetary, through the mechanism of compensation between autonomous communities, taking into account the financial situation of these communities, this situation is further aggravated. When the fund was budgetary in nature, at least there was a guarantee that, although little and many things were left unbilled, something was coming every year. With the current Assistance Guarantee Fund, this which we thought would be resolved and which was positive is stagnating and not just working, and that is why we are concerned that it will be launched at once. In this section, I would also like to talk a little bit about the institutional disloyalty exercised by the Government, and I would like to give an example of the recent case of treatment for hepatitis C. My group, Convergence i Unió, already since 2013, long before this controversy about access to treatment by patients with hepatitis C broke out, has been calling for the creation of a health fund for the financing of the pharmacotherapeutic innovations approved by the Ministry of Health and included in the catalogue of publicly funded medicines, which should be distributed among the autonomous communities in order to cover the costs of these innovations. That didn't come and here we go. The solution that has been given, limiting itself to facilitating financing through the FLA, does not cease to be an advance of money that you have to return and with interests and that, Minister, Convergence i Unió does not see that it is a solution. We believe that this is a matter of institutional disloyalty, as is also the fact that the General State Budgets eliminate the items that helped the autonomous communities to maintain specific programmes. I have to remind you here of the AIDS programme or the oral health programme. All of these programmes have been left unfunded by the State towards the autonomous communities and must continue to be run by them. I would like to conclude by saying that the only thing that was missing was the last amendment to the Lofca that was approved here just two weeks ago. Far from solving the problems of the system of financing the autonomous communities, it establishes a new measure involving clear interference in the entire autonomous management of health. Moreover, it has not been done even from his ministry, but from another ministry, subtracting this debate from the Health Commission and transferring it to another Commission. This Government prefers to finance the autonomous communities extraordinarily through loans and credits rather than through a new funding system, which should be addressed. In our view, the Government should increase State resources for health care by resolving the traditional underfunding of the health system. Minister, in Convergence i Unió we would like to know if you are going to change something on this road of carrying on the backs of the autonomous communities, which cannot bear any more burden in the sanitary consignments, and what you intend to do to help solve in a definitive way the under-financing and, therefore, the maintenance of the National Health System. To continue along this path, I am very afraid that the National Health System will continue to lose quality. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tarruella. Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mrs Tarruella, for bringing this debate to the House and the motion that will follow. I don't think the system is losing quality. It has excellent professionals and remains leading, but this does not begin to share the need to ensure and have its sustainability as one of the main concerns of everyone, the ministry and the whole system. Sustainability is a word that has been the main word throughout the legislature and it can be thought that it has been because of the fall in public revenues that came with the crisis - an unprecedented fall in income - and the very difficult situation that has occurred in the public accounts and in the guarantee of the provision of basic services; but, just as a disease generates antibodies to the one that has suffered and protects it in the future, sustainability has come to stay and it is a concept that we will have to apply permanently. At the end of her speech, Mrs Tarruella spoke of a new system of autonomous financing. We have always understood that this should be the case when the opportunity is favourable, because this legislature has been to save and guarantee systems and to work on substantive reforms to make them sustainable and there has been no opportunity to discuss a new funding system, which is an outstanding subject. I am not going to qualify the current funding system, what its origin was, who supported it and who was against it, but it is clear that the crisis has revealed its shortcomings. As I now feel more autonomous than you in some of your manifestations, I tell you not to walk towards a finalist or protected system by the General Administration of the State or by the Ministry of Health. Each community must set its priorities because, if we did not allow them to set their priorities, we would be banning them from doing politics and curtailing their legitimate right to exercise the principle of autonomy that the Constitution recognizes them. I therefore do not believe in such sort of finalist budgets, but I do believe in cooperation. I want to briefly review the situation in 2011. You know, we talked a lot about those famous 16 billion euros of public health debt in the form of unpaid bills and in a payment period to suppliers that exceeded the year and a half. This was the usual practice and, therefore, also put at risk thousands of jobs in the pharmaceutical, gas or technology industry, which could not charge the products that health bought and that we needed to operate every day. What this Government has done and what it has been doing all these years has been to put in place measures for an urgent financial livelihood for the Autonomous Communities. You also recalled that you had the initiative in this House to set up a subcommittee in which we have come to work. As he said, the Government has put in place liquidity mechanisms, ICO lines, Supplier Payment Plan, advance account deliveries, the Automated Liquidity Fund, and recently funding funds and the continuation of the postponement of negative liquidations. As the economic situation has improved and funding costs have been reduced, because we have regained credibility and confidence in international markets, the Government has provided a greater margin and improved coverage of these mechanisms and set an interest rate of 0% for the autonomous communities. From the outset, therefore, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Spain have sought to ensure sustainability in the provision of basic and essential services with extraordinary measures that sought to provide liquidity to the autonomous communities that needed funding and had great difficulty in accessing credit. In total this has meant more than 184 billion euros transferred to the autonomous communities, and only in payment to suppliers the Generalitat needed assistance of more than 15 billion euros. Of all this money, 71.8% is intended to finance basic services, a percentage which in Catalonia is 63.5%. This has therefore ensured the functioning of health, educational and social concerts, senior residences, care for persons with disabilities or that pharmacies are covered by the medicines they provide. It is true that the health budgets of the autonomous communities experienced a reduction, but the last data we have of real health spending - i.e. not the budgeted but what the system actually spent - are of the year 2012 and tell us of 71 billion, that is to say, of the maximum, and in 2012 continued to increase the real health spending. I do not have the actual health expenditure for 2013 or 2014, my last data is that for 2012. Despite this apparent reduction in budgets, if one takes into account the support that has been transferred through the various mechanisms for financing the guarantee of this liquidity, the expenditure has not been reduced and has been guaranteed. However, important measures for sustainability were taken through health reform. You have spoken of the Royal Decree-Law 16/2012. It does not share it and, however, this decree guaranteed the universality of the system for all Spaniards for the first time; it narrowed the fraud avoiding a hole through which we were going a billion euros a year to all Spaniards. Of these, almost 700 million corresponded to what was not invoiced to the countries of origin, something which has to do with the FOGA compensation system, to which I shall refer later. It also guaranteed assistance to citizens in an irregular administrative situation, which we want now to improve - this benefited 1 million long-term unemployed who no longer have to pay 40% of the medicines - as well as to other groups, apart from establishing a portfolio of common services and even incorporating new benefits. Perhaps the most significant savings have occurred in the pharmacy chapter, where we have changed the pricing system of medicines. We have also promoted the use of generics, which already account for 48% of the total packaging and which in 2011 were 34%, and so much progress has been made. Even today the average expenditure per prescription continues to fall, in April it was 0.15 %. Therefore, there have been very important measures of containment in spending and savings in pharmacy, so that since this health reform was launched in 2012 they already accumulate 4,737 million euros. This means savings for the autonomous communities, which are the ones who have to take care of that expenditure on medicines. I do not want to review any other data from this reform, but I do want to mean that it has been important from the point of view of sustainability. You said that the government is creating a finalist fund for innovative medicines. I believe that we have acted with deep institutional loyalty, I really do, so I have to reject the accusation you have made from the rostrum in the case of hepatitis C. In 2014 the system in Spain was targeting medicines to treat patients with hepatitis C about 150 million euros. The emergence of new drugs opened up a great opportunity to improve the quality of life of these patients due to their possibility of cure. We made a strategic plan that felt that immediately they should have access to and receive this new medication 51,900 people throughout Spain, according to the data provided to us by the Autonomous Communities. That meant an expenditure ceiling, after negotiations with the laboratories, of 786 million euros, therefore an insurmountable burden, given the level of expenditure that the autonomous communities were exerting so far for this particular pathology. We believe that it was financingable with a temporary horizon and a mechanism was established with the Ministry of Finance to take over the invoice for hepatitis C drugs with a credit to be returned to ten years, which has one year of deficiency and which has the most advantageous interest rate that the State, the Treasury, can offer. He therefore gave a solution because, above all, he did not compute for the deficit and gave the advisers a calmness so that they could make the decisions and dispense the medicines with the guarantee that they would not increase their deficit and with the guarantee that they had a temporary horizon for that return. This can be incorporated into this element of discussion of financial instruments in situations of financing that the autonomous communities and the State have. You also talked about the FOGA. Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 established the Care Guarantee Fund which, together with the Health Cohesion Fund, must guarantee health care to all persons. Through the Cohesion Fund, more than EUR 152 million has been allocated to the Generalitat in this legislature. The FOGA has also made an advance in the compensation of the activity carried out in another autonomous community to which the patient moves. To explain it in a very simple way, the principle is that money follows the patient, each autonomous community has the responsibility, according to the funding system, to care for its citizens, so if it goes to another autonomous community and receives assistance it has to compensate for that expenditure it receives from another administration. So far the system has worked - and continues to work - very incompletely. We intend to make changes this year, and that is why I believe that both the questioning and the content of the motion that you can put forward and discuss next week are timely. He mentioned that compensation could cover and cover other aspects that are not covered today, such as primary care, total pharmacy spending and other concepts that are not covered right now, because in principle only hospital spending was taken care of, not covered. It is curious, because we are doing the compensation and the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, when it presented the joint liquidation to the Health Cohesion Fund and the Assistance Guarantee Fund, it had in this last liquidation a positive balance of 19,54 million euros - this is the balance that we have -, of which it has received through the extrabudgetary fund that manages the ministry a total of 12,09 million euros, of which 7,5 million euros remain outstanding. The problem is that these 12 million euros do not know if they reach the hospitals that have paid attention or if they even reach the Department of Health, because we send it to the Treasury of Catalonia. The counselor says to me, I haven't seen a euro. Well, we sent the money. He has not seen a euro and then says that this cannot be linked to him. It's your argument, and I think once that settlement happens, it's reasonable to get to the one who's spent money. In any case, I see that there is also a difficulty there that can pose a problem for the citizens because it limits the referral of patients from one centre to another or from patients to reference centres, problems that we are seeing and that cause us also to be interested in a reflection on these compensation mechanisms and on the FOGA so that, in fact, it compensates everything and cannot pose a barrier to an integration of the system in which all citizens can enjoy guaranteed assistance throughout Spain and also have access to reference units throughout the national territory. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u141	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Tarruella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you just described how FOGA should be, which is what we thought it would be when Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 was processed, but that's the theory, that's not the practice, that's not the reality. I have up-to-date figures here and - as I said earlier - although it is true that compensation has been received and a part of this activity has been paid and it has been possible to bill, they have removed from the Health Cohesion Fund a whole series of elements that were previously covered by that fund. They passed it to the extrabudgetary fund and said that the FOGA would take care of everything that did not enter the Health Cohesion Fund, which is the expenditure of those who are displaced from one community to another or those who go to reference centres, who already apply for such authorization and who already agree. I haven't questioned that, but it's a small part. The rest, the great, relating to the autonomous communities, especially the border areas, which limit with others, were exposed. It was said - and we thought it would be - that the FOGA would cover all this which did not cover the Cohesion Fund and would be resolved. I will give you a concrete example of my city, of my province. He knows that I am a deputy for Lleida, where Arnau Hospital in Vilanova is, which is a hospital with a moderate budget, a hospital that serves 250,000 inhabitants. This hospital is borderline with the Autonomous Community of Aragon. This Arnau de Vilanova hospital has been costing 7.5 million euros in the past year and 10 million euros in previous years. This descent has been because it now obliges the citizens of that area - who have the hospital of Lleida 20 kilometers and good road - to go from Aragon to Barbastro, Huesca or Zaragoza, having many more kilometers and being much further, when they were accustomed to going all life to Lleida and where they were well. This decline has been noted because of the government's obligation, when it would be much easier for those same people to continue to be cared for where they have been all their lives - we are 20 kilometres away, I would remind you - and their autonomous government will be responsible for these costs. These are authenticated data from this very week. That's not included. The hospital cost - I say again - is not included in these invoices that have to be issued from the autonomous governments to which they send patients - or the patients go on their own feet due to proximity or ease of access -. All this is not included in the billing system. Now it's getting underway in primary care, one less thing. So far what works - I have to admit that it works well and from this there is nothing to say, nor have I named it - is all that has to do with assistance to foreigners and the global quota. Here we are at zero, it is perfectly offsetting what is being sent and being done. Here too we have to bear in mind that they are legal foreigners, but the autonomous services continue to care for those who have lost their cartilage or who can no longer attend as they normally did before primary care and now go to emergencies. Autonomous communities are taking over and that is not billed. I'm not going to get on this ground because we can leave it for later. Although the Generalitat has collected on 31 December 2014 28,719,000 euros for the compensation of displaced persons to Catalonia from 2009 to 2014, there is still a debt and they are still due - already invoiced and accepted - 26,459,928 euros exactly and in addition the amount of 6,763,000 euros remains pending from the Health Cohesion Fund since 2013. In fact, the autonomous communities, especially patient recipients, would not be as suffocated if at least what is invoiced and what is recognized were to be paid annually, as appropriate, because many autonomous communities cannot meet the costs incurred. I would like to comment on one subject in the few minutes I have left, even if only in passing. You have spoken of a lack of institutional loyalty. You'll tell me what happens when an innovative medicine enters the public system, which is like adding a new service portfolio. It has always been said that in the service portfolio when there are new benefits they have to be compensated and here this is not done. We don't need that emergency patch - which has been done, I recognize it, but the FLA is an emergency patch - as the money is advanced, but then we have to return it and continue to deal with everything else. That is not the definitive solution, we need to find a solution among all of us to this lack of funding. I understand the concern about this subject and I know you share it. He has been in charge of this ministry for a short time, and it is therefore not his responsibility, but it is his Government's. The People's Party government throughout this legislature has not held a single meeting of presidents of autonomous communities to discuss funding. You haven't done one, then you shouldn't be so worried about this. I remember that with the previous government of President Zapatero - although we also had many discrepancies with him - this meeting took place and ended. This legislature has indeed been missed, just as has been missed another meeting, because there was a promise from the Minister of Economy to meet with the health advisers of the autonomous communities to discuss precisely all these matters, which was postponed because the amendment of the Autonomous Financing Act was being discussed and which has never been known again. That's why we're talking about loyalty here...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u143	Your Honor, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Next week we will see the corresponding motion. We would sincerely like to see some agreements reached among all of us and at least to alleviate this huge lack of funding that exists in the National Health System. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Tarruella. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Tarruella, you are going to be the only Spanish woman who feels the nostalgia of President Zapatero, who was indeed very nice and who met a lot, but left the country as he left it, and all these years have been to try to turn that situation around. I'll tell him that's where we don't want to go back and where we can't go back. I think the Spaniards don't have the money or the patience to go back to a situation like the one we've been through and the one we're getting out of. He's talking about the definitive solution. To reach the definitive solution the first thing was to leave the well where we were, to ensure that we could continue to provide services, to reform the health system in which a central concept was the sustainability of the National Health System, the relationship with professionals and absolute respect for the competences of the autonomous communities and, therefore, to a working method based on cooperation, dialogue, reaching agreements among all. This is what has been attempted, but it is clear that the ultimate solution is to recover the economic situation and to have a position in which public revenue can increase, which will also lead to a real guarantee of health. You say that so far only patches have been put on. They are not patches, they are solutions to cut a path by which the system was collapsing and which had occurred with the debt that explained it. It seems to me that your motion will focus on compensation mechanisms. We are concerned about this problem and I have already anticipated that the ministry works to make changes, because we see the insufficiency and the problems that occur. You tell me about the problem they have in Catalonia regarding citizens who live in the Community of Aragon and who are no longer being cared for there, which is an inconvenience to them. There are neighbouring communities that have signed agreements that appear to be working well and there are others that have complaints about them. The Community of La Rioja complains that it has outstanding amounts on the part of the Basque Country or Navarre and that there are then dysfunctions and complex situations that we know and that will force certain reforms, which in the case of border territories are obvious, so that assistance can be guaranteed. I am glad that the system has improved considerably in the attention to tourists and, therefore, in the attention to legal foreigners. With regard to the care of foreigners who are in an irregular situation in Spain, what we intend and have transferred to the communities is to make a serious programme to give them in primary care the care that guarantees public health and that of those people, which is reasonable, but we will have to follow up. Your honor says that's not a bill. I think here you have to bill everything and make up for everything, this is the idea. It is serious from the point of view of funding the system. I repeat that the reflection and the proposal are timely and I hope that we can work with the ideas in which we are moving from the Ministry of Health. Mrs Tarruella, when we incorporate innovative medicines into the system, it involves a process, first at the European Medicines Agency, then at the Spanish Medicines Agency, to analyze the convenience and effectiveness of the treatment and then set a price. The price-fixing mechanism is difficult and very fought. I believe that the system in Spain achieves better prices than in Europe and we also legally have the guarantee that in Spain a lower price will be applied than that applied anywhere in the European Union, which is a guarantee also established by law. We do this so we can incorporate it into the system's savings. Every month there is a struggle for savings and the expiration of patents that also allow us to make a hole in the system to incorporate innovations. In this way we have done so and when an innovation, because of its very special character, such as that of the new medicines for hepatitis C, exceeded that ability to act, that capacity to save the system, we resorted to the Montoro clause, which is to convince the Minister of Finance to enable a special system that does not punish the deficit of the autonomous communities and that gives a real solution to the patients. I sincerely believe that this has been achieved with the support and goodwill of all and that it was important to do so. I'm going to make you a request, because I think if we work together we can get more. You participate in the joint purchasing platforms, but you have not recently participated in the joint purchasing platforms to buy some vaccines, and I think it is important that we all go, because when we buy all the vaccines together - which is now a matter that is at the heart of the public debate - we can generate savings. In the period 2012-2015 these framework agreements to buy flu vaccines and other vaccines allowed us to save 134 million euros. That Catalonia does not participate means that Catalonia saves less and that the whole of the Spaniards save less. So, if we talk about funding, let's see if we can improve the FOGA, let's see how we can improve the Cohesion Fund so that there is effective compensation between the autonomous communities, but let's see if we can get the system not broken and that we can consolidate joint purchasing platforms. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u147	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE JOINT Parliamentary GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, ON THE FREE MOVEMENT OF ARTWORKS BETWEEN CANARY-PENINSULA-EUROPA-CANARY. [[LORD KITCHEN]] [[File number 172/000318]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u148	Next item is the urgent debate by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo, to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration on the free movement of works of art between the Canary Islands and the Canary Islands and the Canary Islands. Mr Quevedo has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. New Canarias and the Canary Coalition today put an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, to whom we greet, on the need to ensure the free movement of works of art between the Canary Islands and the Canary Islands and the Canary Islands. There are few occasions when a matter has aroused so much consensus and so much unanimity in the political forces as a whole with so few results; few are the cases. If we look at some immediate precedents of a parliamentary nature, we will see that in November 2013 a non-legislative proposal was adopted in the Parliament of the Canary Islands unanimously by all political groups on this matter. In 2014 there was a non-legislative proposal in this Congress that Mr Franquis defended - in the previous case he was also defended by a member of the Socialist Party in the Canary Islands - which was also adopted unanimously. There is a motion in the Senate, defended by Mr Fuentes Curbelo in March 2014, in which you intervened, which was also unanimously adopted. Finally, the Congressional Committee on Culture, in March 2014, also unanimously considered the need to put an end to the discrimination suffered by Canarian artistic productions in relation to those of the rest of the State and the European Union. We should make a brief review of other arguments, that is, we know the constitutional arguments, which are sufficiently debated, the statutory ones as well. We should remember that, for example, Agenda 21 for Culture makes it clear that culture must be the fourth pillar of sustainable development. For this reason, the development of cultural sectors becomes not only an artistic butade or a purely intellectual issue, but an essential element for the development of any community, as I am sure we share. It highlights the need for artistic productions to be considered cultural goods and not commercial goods, which constitutes the substance of this issue, i.e. cultural goods and not commercial goods. The UNESCO Declaration on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions, at its 33rd session in Paris, signed by the Spanish State in 2006, states: Cultural activities, goods and services are of an economic and cultural nature because they bear identities, values and meanings and therefore should not be treated as if they had only commercial value. In this case, we also have Unesco on our part. In the case of the Economic and Social Council of the Canary Islands, an interpretation is made of the present, future and challenges of the Canarian economy, in which it is made perfectly clear that, given the phenomenon of cultural globalization, it is absolutely imperative that the Canary Islands take advantage of its opportunities and its geostrategic position, because we have some difficulties related to our geographical situation, but it is also true that we have some opportunities arising from our geostrategic position in relation to three continents, as I know the Minister knows perfectly well. That is why an appeal is made to the public sector. The public sector is crucial to break down all those barriers of an economic and bureaucratic nature that limit the development of the cultural sector in the Canary Islands. We are talking about the Canary Islands, but I have no doubt that this is extrapolable to the whole state, although this problem only occurs in the Archipelago, as is known. That is why it is necessary to free trade flows from any type of external influence that limits that determining element. This is not what happens today with the customs imposition that knows that canary artistic productions suffer - then we comment -. This is very well told by Mr Fuentes Curbelo, who perfectly described what would happen if someone took a work of art from the Canary Islands to try to sell it in Seville, I think he said, and what would happen to the artist who dared to carry out such a task. In the motion of the Senate, Mr. Montoro, to our satisfaction, said: The Government of Spain is aware of the difficulties of the Canarian visual artists in moving their work and we are prepared to correct this situation - which we call discrimination -. In general, he knows that there is a tremendous debate in the Spanish State about whether culture has been well served by what has been happening with the cuts or with the increase in VAT to 21 %; it is a debate that is there. In the Canary Islands we also suffer negative discrimination, a product of assimilation that is unusual from cultural products to commercial products. In this case, the economic and fiscal regime in the Canary Islands in its fiscal aspects is negative and I know that I am not telling you anything new because I know that you know it. The following would happen. A Canarian artist decides to take out his work and wants to come to Madrid. You have to pay the transport costs - there was only one missing - but you will also find that you will have to pay the customs, if you can complete the DUA, because the single customs document brings them - someone in malicious tone taught me what to do and I declared myself manifestly incompetent at five minutes, what a difficult thing!-; if you can complete this step, you will manage to move your work, of course by paying the corresponding amount. If you manage to sell, you will pay VAT and, if you do not sell, you will return to the Canary Islands again, do the same with the DUA and pay the corresponding customs duties again. In conclusion, it is a tremendous increase in the isolation of island territories from their island status. On the other hand, a creator ends up becoming a sort of exporter-importer to his grief - emulating Molière, with all due respect for the distinguished French writer. He is a sort of businessman to your regret in relation to these kinds of issues. That is why we wonder what happens so that there is such goodwill and the issue is not resolved. This would be good for everyone who killed her and she alone died, applied to Canarian artistic production. We have welcomed your intervention in Senator Fuentes Curbelo's motion, but why have we missed the opportunity with the reform of the Economic and Fiscal System in its fiscal aspects 2014-2020, where this matter has not been included? I doubt if this needs a legislative amendment, I don't know, but I'm sure you do have very good people who know. We think we've missed a chance. We lost in December 2014 a very important opportunity with the 2014-2020 renewal of the REF in its fiscal aspects. That is why we are obliged to come back here and because something has happened, because the Canary Islands Association of Visual Artists has proposed in a few days on customs and art in the Canary Islands, in its technical and political aspects, a pact for the free movement of the works of art Canary Islands-Península-Europa-Canarias, signed this pact by all the political forces that are present in this Chamber in the Canary Islands. [[the title that we have here today was the one that put precisely the organization of these acts]] It is true that the pact is essentially aimed at urging the Canarian Parliament and the Government of the Canary Islands to act in this area. It is a good time to remember that the Canarian Community, as you know, has powers to promote culture and must therefore be required to do the right thing - here we are - to give specialized assistance to Canarian artists and to try to facilitate the cumbersome tasks to which they are subjected, in addition to artistic production. This is fine, but this has a state plan, because - Article 149.1.10.a of the Spanish Constitution - the State has exclusive competence in the customs and tariff regime and in foreign trade. As you know, this Member speaking to you would have no problem in transferring the competition to the Canary Islands, but I think we will not agree, which is why the competition is yours. And if it is yours and we are saying that the fundamental problem is of a customs nature, what we ask of you is that, in honour of your commitment, you intervene. We believe that an opportunity has been missed with the REF in its fiscal aspects, but it is necessary to put an end to the discriminatory treatment suffered by art producers in the Canary Islands because it is unfair at all points. We will raise in the motion resulting from this inquiry at the time the smallum that we believe will be reasonable, like everything we always put here, so that we find a way to unlock this. I assure you that we are going to be absolutely demanding in the Parliament of the Canary Islands, I believe that we are all going to be demanding with ourselves, but in the meantime, the Canary and New Canary Coalition have tabled a set of amendments to the General Budgets of the State to recover important items -375,000 euros to improve travel or 586,000 for aid to artistic events - for one reason, because until this is resolved in some way we will have to put an end to it. You have to see what happens to sculptors, who have a problem even with the type of works they do. They have to be small works because, otherwise, they can't be taken with them. This is nonsense. We truly believe that it is an absolutely just and justified demand, that it has the necessary unanimity at all levels and that it now seems to us fair to respond from the plane that corresponds to each one, his or hers from the ministry he or she directs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u151	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Quevedo, the Government knows and shares the concern expressed by your lordship about the bureaucratic problems faced by Canarian artists when they intend to move their work to the Peninsula or Balearic Islands to expose it. It is not a question that has a simple solution because it must be borne in mind that, in addition to being works of art, they are also commercial goods and that treatment is the same whatever the geographical origin of the artist. The different situation in which the Canarian artists and those in the Peninsula find themselves does not arise from a problem of free movement, since this exists without restrictions between the countries of the European Union, it stems from the fact that the Canary Islands is excluded from the scope of the application of VAT. This situation means that the circulation of works of art between the Canary Islands and the rest of Spain must fulfil a series of formal and material obligations that cause these obstacles, these disturbances to the Canarian artists. As you yourself recalled from the rostrum, I expressed the best willingness of the Government and the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration in the Senate to find a solution so that we could, in fact, at least reduce the degrees of inconvenience that canary artists find for their exhibition activity. Last year, first the Congressional Committee on Culture and a month later the Senate Committee adopted a non-legislative proposal urging the Government to find a solution. The Government has studied and continues to study various alternatives, which, I must say frankly, are not simple - as you yourself stated in the content of your inquiry - given that any decision must be within the limits set by the European Union's rules on this matter. In other words, our course does not come from our own regulation, which we have in Spain, but rather from the European legislation, from the European directives. Having said that, and without prejudice to the fact that we must continue to make progress, as in everything else, your honor knows well that I have the best willingness not to recognise, but to compensate for the costs arising from the situation in the Canary Islands or to turn the Canary Islands into that Atlantic platform in economic terms, which is our aspiration and of course mine in particular. You may believe that it really conforms my mindset not as a member of the Spanish Government, but clearly personal; I believe in that, I am working on it. I think that we have made a REF, the most advanced and ambitious one that has ever had the Canary Islands and I had the opportunity to defend it from the rostrum feeling especially proud, but the work is incomplete, we must continue to concrete aspects, as all the social forces of the Canary Islands, the political groups of the Canary Islands, develop economic areas and continue to reduce bureaucratic costs. At the very least, let us acknowledge that we are making progress, that we have achieved a significant reduction in procedures, a significant simplification of procedures for both the entry of the said cultural goods into the peninsula and their exit. Following the recommendation of the Committee on Culture of the Congress of Deputies, which asked to strengthen the collaboration between the State tax administration and the autonomous one, a single window of the two administrations has been in operation since last January. This avoids administrative duplication in the declaration of transactions involving the movement of goods between the Canary Islands and the rest of Spain. Within the policy of reduction of administrative burdens, and considering that customs processing entails a double cost in having to be carried out in both parts of the national territory, by resolution of the director of the Department of Customs and Special Taxes of the Tax Agency of 11 July 2014, two simplifications have been established for these exchanges: a) General simplification: DUA - initials of a single administrative document - is not required for dispatch at the exit of one part of the customs territory, but only DUA for introduction in the other part. This simplification will be possible for shipments of less than €3,000 or for shipments without transfer of ownership. This procedure excludes certain goods for which a declaration of dispatch must necessarily be submitted enabling the checks provided for by specific rules to be carried out. (b) The second simplification is intended for electronic commerce and distance sales where the seller is responsible for all shipping costs until delivery to the buyer's/recipient's home. The procedure shall be the same as in subparagraph (a) with the speciality that the introduction DUA shall be carried out on behalf of the consignor, as well as the income of the corresponding taxes. Both simplifications, which are optional for stakeholders, can be implemented since January 2015. The unique window, moreover, not only benefits the Canarian artists, but its launch facilitates the procedures of other citizens and collectives of the Archipelago that have to perform these same or similar procedures. We have progressed, I insist, incompletely - I am the first one that I must obviously acknowledge this - and I must reiterate that we have to abide by European legislation and we must not dispense with it when what we are doing is precisely to promote economic development as a whole in the Canary Islands. That is why I conclude by insisting that the Government is open to exploring other possibilities specifically targeted at the group of Canarian artists so that the activity they carry out is more easily disseminated and commercialized. We are open, understand and appreciate the importance of the cultural industry in the Canary Islands and all of Spain, but - it always comes to mind - the tax incentives for cinematographic productions from the Canary Islands really also have a strength from all that has been the disposition of the tax economic regime and that cultural industry is also clearly being strengthened. I insist on this argument of being open to the Government to study all possibilities and, of course, to take due care of this group of canarian artists so that they do not have to see that their activity is marred by bureaucratic, administrative problems and, of course, by tax burdens that they should not bear. The Government will therefore support the motion resulting from this call for the Canarian Administration to continue to work with the Government of Spain and the European Commission to alleviate the procedures that still present a cost that prevents the development of the Canary Islands' cultural industry. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Quevedo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply, which I welcome in terms of tone, in terms of substance, but I do not know how we are going to fix this. It has not been very clear to me, because you have said something that we already know and that in some respects the REF, the economic and fiscal regime of the Canary Islands, is beneficial and in others not. Not this one. In this one, not because we are within the customs community, but outside the prosecutor and that's why these things happen. This is it. It is also true, as far as the substance of the question is concerned, that if, according to Unesco, with Agenda 21, with what the Spanish Constitution says, loaded with all these arguments, let us say that artistic productions are not commercial goods strictly, but rather, quite the contrary, goods to be promoted, as the Spanish Government subscribes to the Unesco declaration, it would perhaps be simpler. We will have to do something because, if not, the problem is that we will always agree, but we will never solve the issue. On the subject of simplifications, which are always to be thanked, it seemed to me to understand that those who are good, that is, who have valuable works, are excluded because it is 3,000 euros down. All this is well, the question of the single window, of course, and administrative simplification - it is a value that we absolutely share - but the Canarian artists have gathered us again three months ago and this means that there is no feeling of tranquility, but quite the opposite. I have to insist on the REF issue. It is clear that the good disposition in relations between the Government of the Canary Islands and that of Spain are decisive for this and for anything else, the good relations understood as being able to come forward to solve problems. We're going to push this to the extent of our forces, which before were less and now are more; we're willing as far as we can, but we need a determined effort from your department, because I'm sure you usually have competent people. They have been focused on a part of the issue, which is not the whole issue. Negotiations with the European Union must necessarily be led by the Spanish Government, and what we ask of them is that they should lead it. They lead that negotiation because we are completely convinced that there are arguments to get to the bottom of the issue. This isn't a commercial good, it's not a tomato box, in short. If this is the idea we share, I am sure that we could move forward and we will formulate the motion in these terms. I have to insist that everything is fine, but the alarm is enormous because, if not, the artists would not have gathered us not three months ago, but two months ago. For something it will be. I can assure you that the technical tables, the political tables made it perfectly clear that this is a matter that deeply harms the productive fabric of the Canary Islands as a whole and the sector of artistic production in particular. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Quevedo, we agree in the background, in the middle and in the final form. However, we need to know how to explain both within the Canary Islands and Spain as a whole the uniqueness of the fact that the Canary Islands is excluded from the scope of VAT. We need to know how to explain this also because, if not, things appear seen only from their consequences arising from higher costs, problems and obstacles, but that comes from a singularity. Not only do I recognize that singularity, but you know that I deeply value it. It would never qualify it as a differential fact or advantage over other areas of Spain. You won't hear this expression now, nor do I remember you ever using it. He will not listen to me because it is not in my mind, but we need to know how to harmonize the uniqueness of not having the VAT application regime with membership of the European Union and, therefore, to be subject to certain customs controls. We are moving forward in terms of simplification for the Canarian artists and, as his lordship very well says, for the whole of economic activity. The single window is being implemented since 1 January 2015 and we need to see how we are improving and making it more and more operational. The Government's disposition cannot be greater and my personal commitment as a member of the Government and as Minister of Finance and Public Administration is that I will be very close to this issue and in constant connection with the Tax Agency and, in particular, with the Department of Customs and Special Taxes so that, from the experience gained in these months, we can continue to make progress in reducing administrative burdens. I have already said this in my first speech, but I would like to reiterate the Government's willingness to continue to make progress in the area of the economic - not fiscal - regime in the Canary Islands. Everything we do to reduce costs in economic terms - and, of course, also in the derivatives of bureaucratic controls - will lead to the exit of the economic crisis in the Canary Islands and Spain as a whole. Therefore, that is my disposition. I would like to express to you my deepest conviction in this regard and I hope that we can use what is left of the legislature to improve the economic regime in the Canary Islands, which has suffered so much from this crisis mainly because of the loss of jobs and the hopelessness that this has produced in the Canary Islands and in all the Spaniards. Now that things are getting better and we are emerging from the economic crisis and the Canary Islands is moving forward and creating jobs in an important way, I hope that we can continue to work with the Canarian Administration and the Government of Spain with the loyalty with which we have worked in this legislature until the votes on 24 May. We have worked with loyalty and with a clearly positive result and I hope that this dominates with the new canarian autonomous administration so that the Canary Islands is one of the engines that both Spain and Europe need and that with the work and collaboration of all of us we are getting it to be. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u156	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u157	We have now moved on to discuss the motions resulting from an urgent inquiry that could not be debated yesterday and that will be voted on tomorrow Thursday. The first is the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Plural Left Parliamentary Group into the Government's position on the humanitarian tragedy in the Mediterranean, the European Union's proposals on asylum policy and the Government's response to those proposals. Mr Coscubiela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Plural Left Group, it is up to me to table this motion on measures relating to the right of asylum, migration policies and the civil and political rights of immigrants. Unfortunately, we do so after a disappointing response from the Government to our question. Remember - those who were - that all the response that the Minister of the Interior offered to the humanitarian drama that is currently taking place with tens of thousands of deaths in the Mediterranean was that the Spanish Government had managed to waterproof our Atlantic border. Quite an answer, it's something like being proud to have put doors to the countryside. [[The Lord]] Unfortunately, waterproofing, casketling Europe is not the solution and it is also impossible, as is being seen in relation to the tragedy of arrival of immigrants from Libya to the Italian coasts. In this regard, in the first asylum bloc, our motion proposes, first of all, that the Government strictly comply with the Asylum Act, which it is not doing, and that it do so in coordination with Acnur, the European Commission for Refugee Assistance and the European Union. One example of this non-compliance is that the Spanish Government has at present awarded only 125 resettlement places managed by Acnur during 2014, accounting for 1.9 per cent of the total, while we have hundreds of thousands of people, including Syrians, in camps under subhuman conditions. We also propose to repeal the section of the law that has legalized hot returns despite being contrary to international law. I still hear the voice of the Minister of the Interior in another question when he said that those who tried to cross borders were economic immigrants and not asylum-seekers. I don't know how you know, if before you ask him, he is sometimes expelled in a profoundly inhuman way. But it is also false; remember that the European Frontex Agency has recognised that 80% of arrivals during 2014 and what goes from 2015 to our shores are people who are in a position to apply for asylum. Thirdly, we point out that the ongoing effort to raise walls is shifting to the creation of more asylum offices at the border crossings to treat those people in a humane manner. Also in the framework of asylum, but now as an impetus in European policies, we are proposing that the Government take a more proactive position to promote instruments, common resources of the European Union, and not just as yet to a battle of quotas, which in addition to being miserable gives an image absolutely contrary to what the European image should be. On the other hand, with regard to migration policy, the most important thing is for the Government to stop making a social alarm speech that does not correspond to the data. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, irregular entries in Spain account for only 4.4% of the total of the European Union; they are the data compared by the Ministry of the Interior with those of the European Commission. There is no migratory pressure for economic reasons, as the Government is committed to insisting. The proof of this is that our net migration balance has been negative for some time now, which is quite obvious, because ultimately the so-called effect of the labour market, which is not produced by laws but fundamentally by the economy, has disappeared. Therefore, in this context, the restrictive policies of regularization, family reunification and nationality practised by the Spanish Government are absolutely more inconceivable; they run counter to the sense of logic and the sense of history. That is why we propose in this section to speed up the processes of regularisation by rooting, renewal of residence and work permits and, above all, to put an end to the human barbarity involved in situations of irregularity. I would like someone to explain to me how it can be justified for someone who has been living and working for a long time in a situation of administrative regularization when he loses his job to be involved in an infertile administrative spiral by which, suddenly, he and his family are in a situation of administrative irregularity. It's a barbarity that we have to solve and I don't think it costs that much, if you want to. Speaking of the family, we propose that the absurd and inhuman restrictions that prevent immigrants from living in the family should be abolished, and that means speeding up and making family reunification processes more flexible and promoting European Union Directive 2003/86. We cannot afford any more images of a child in a suitcase as a result of the despair of a father who lacks 50 euros to justify the income needed to request family reunification. We cannot afford any more of these situations, not the image, but the dramatic situation that this entails. In that sense, we are putting forward a change in those policies as well as in relation to that double standard which means that if you are a poor worker you do not get a work residence permit and if you are a rich investor you can buy that residence permit. The different treatment that the Spanish Government is giving these people is not the same as a civilized society. We cannot call ourselves civilized as long as we maintain such behaviours, as long as the Government maintains them, which demonstrate that, in addition to being a xenophobic policy, it is, above all, classy, that is, classy, clearly discriminatory according to the class of people. Of course, we need to change the systems of granting nationality and facilitate them and put an end to the integration tests, which, if they were not very serious, would be the subject of Lepe's jokes because, in fact, it is impossible for anyone to have thought of asking some of the questions that are being asked. I'm done. With regard to civil and political rights, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention. You are aware that the 19th century represented an important advance in moving from the right to vote in the census, only as owners, to the right to vote by universal suffrage, for the moment only as men, because it was too much to grant to women. The twentieth century was that of full recognition of women's vote in some countries where it was restricted to minority voting. The twenty-first century is the century of recognition of the right to vote of individuals, not on the basis of their nationality, but of their citizenship, from which they live. We have to understand this, and the sooner we understand it, the sooner we stop inflicting unnecessary suffering. Does it make sense that someone who lives and works among us, who pays taxes, who is subject to labour, health and education laws, which are decided in state, autonomous parliaments or local governments cannot decide who are the representatives who agree to that? Not really. In that sense, just as we now find it inconceivable that women could not vote in much of the 20th century or we find it inconceivable that only those who had a certain heritage could vote, it will soon be inconceivable that it is justified that only those who have nationality can vote, leaving those who do not, even though they are citizens of our country, without voting. By the way, if anyone has any doubts right now about what it's like to be on the right or what it's like to be on the left, look at the story. Being of the right was the census vote, being of the left was the universal suffrage; being of the right was to prevent the vote of women, being of the left was to recognize the vote of women; being of the right today is to deny the right to vote to citizens who do not have nationality. [[Mr. Puche Rodríguez-Acosta speaks words that are not perceived]] In case anyone has any doubts. That doubt I have not opened for you, that doubt does not go for you because I know that you have very clear what it is to be right, above all that. [[Mr. Puche Rodríguez-Acosta speaks words that are not perceived]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u159	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment to this motion and Mrs Esteve has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group believes that this motion from the Plural Left and the statement made by Mr Coscubiela are entirely appropriate, although in some respects we do not agree. We will work today and tomorrow to be able to vote affirmatively. We share with you - and to this I will devote my intervention - the first part of your motion. Immigration was not a military or security issue and the Government was being completely unfair and insolidary. As Mr. Campuzano has said, there are millions of refugees from the Syrian war and the government has offered 130 places, Mr. Coscubiela, in 2013, in 2014 and probably in 2015. According to UN data published today, 100,000 human beings have crossed the Mediterranean and we are offering 130 places to meet these people who are fleeing from war and conflict, who are playing their lives and so much more. But there is another issue that I want to point out here and which has to do with how migration is conceived. It is the political language that you and above all the Minister of the Interior have used. It is hurtful to hear that rescuing people who lose their lives at sea can create a so-called effect. It is hurtful to make excuses like unemployment to say that we cannot take in refugees. But we're talking about shelter and asylum! It's something else. They're people who run away from death, I insist. The attitude of European countries - this is another - is to look only at their navel and flee their responsibility. This is completely reprehensible, but the attitude of the Spanish Government is also unwise. Today it is Italy that needs the most solidarity and does not find it. But what happens when the pressure falls on our borders, when it falls on the fence? Then we demand help from Morocco and warm returns, without taking into account the humanitarian drama behind it and without giving them the opportunity to express their need for asylum and refuge. We cannot be just a model of fences and repression and consider desperate human beings as mere merchandise to despise. The policy of the European Union must change its focus, because talking about shelling ships on the shore and having this proposal as its only proposal, in addition to being absurd, is unwise, I insist. We need to talk about how livelihoods are being rebuilt and what we are doing to ensure that this does not happen, because something has to do with Europe in this situation. A comprehensive, comprehensive approach with bottom-up solutions is needed. We need urgent and practical solutions so that the Mediterranean is not a sea of death. Socialists are not critical because they are. If the government calls us, we will sit - as I think all the groups will do - to seek a common policy that will overcome this current situation. There is a need to address solutions with the countries of the European Union, Africa and the Middle East, it is necessary to bring all this work to the highest level, but there is a reality. Of course, we must fight against irregular immigration, against trafficking networks and we must redouble the cooperation measures to reverse the consequences of conflicts and the lack of development, but when the drama is at our door, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, first life, first reception, first human rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Esteve. Mr Baldoví has the floor for the Joint Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. In a moment of humanitarian emergency, with more than 50 million refugees around the world, it is really inexplicable that the Minister of the Interior considers that the Spanish State cannot accept in two years a percentage of refugees that is equivalent to one person per 11,000 inhabitants, especially if we attend to the millions of refugees that the wars of Libya, Syria or Iraq have generated, wars that are so close to us and in which, moreover, many countries of the European Union have had outstanding prominence. We join the motion put forward by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left and demand a radical change in the policies adopted. Border movements are mostly due to forced situations, after which there is suffering and an obligation to emigrate. Therefore, we believe that it should be approached from a humanitarian and non-economic perspective, as we see that it is currently happening with policies such as the so-called Golden Visa, approved in 2013, through the Law of Entrepreneurs, that speed up the issuance of residence in case of request for the purpose of investing in brick or debt or of setting up a company, being the property of more than 500,000 euros. Perhaps the Government could be reminded of what international conventions it had signed and what was a refugee, who was nothing more or less than a person persecuted on the grounds of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion. That is why - I finish - I would like to point out to you that the shielding of the border, the rejection and the tightening of the right to asylum are not the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs Oramas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I make the words of Esperança Esteve totally mine, with enthusiasm. Both Esperança and CiU's spokesperson lived with me in the years 2006 and 2007 the arrival of more than 80,000 people in the Canary Islands. We are the southern border of Europe, together with Italy and Greece, and we are wrong. We have to be on the side of Italy and on the side of Greece right now, we cannot be on the other side, because at any time we can have what we live in the Canary Islands again. We are currently working with the Mauritanian Government, but we will know what. On the coast of Libya there are not 3,000 people, like outside Ceuta and Melilla, there are between 500,000 and a million people who are willing to cross because they have nothing to lose, because behind is death, behind is hunger and behind is nothing. Our country has to be at this moment resolutely with Italy and Greece. I tell the government one thing: The biggest job that was done in Spain was with unaccompanied immigrant minors, one of the main problems that Italy has. We have the means, we have the professionals, we have the experience and we have the resources. Let us offer Italy this theme, for example. This does not affect employment in the crisis situation we have. Let us be supportive, because in no way will we see ourselves in the same situation. At that time we were yelling at Europe telling them that immigrants - apart from the humanitarian drama of the thousands who stayed at sea - did not come to the Canary Islands or Spain, were coming out of death, from hunger and were coming to Europe. This is a European issue. Now, all of a sudden, we change the speech and we tell them that we have 5,000 or 3,000, which is our share. But what is this? That was not our speech, neither that of the PP, nor that of the PSOE, nor that of the nationalists of Convergence i Unió, nor that of the Canary Coalition in the years 2006 and 2007. Then lines were closed and there was determined action in Africa of cooperation, diplomatic and with all of Europe. It was hard for us to introduce that message at that time. I call for reflection and political consensus. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Then, and also for the Joint Group, Mr Iñarritu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Amaiur also endorses this motion, which clearly reflects that if there is an alien problem in this state it is precisely the one that is generating the reactionary measures of the People's Party, all of them against people who are seeking help. Let us bear in mind that at this moment we are facing the greatest displacement of people in the world after World War II, and before that we must act in a global way, but also in good faith, and that is not what we are meeting here. The Government is treating this issue not as a matter of rights or a humanitarian matter, but as a police matter. We have all seen terrible images, such as beatings in the Melilla fence, death and shootings on the Tarajal beach and hot evictions. If that were not enough, the Government was leading the entire legislature by encouraging a false and dangerous message, such as that of the so-called effect, of the danger of invasion and assault, that the only thing it was doing was to increase stigmatization, racism and xenophobia against people who were only asking for help. With regard to asylum-seekers who are already in the State, everything is a hindrance. Applying for asylum is an odyssey. You have even denied this right to the Saharan asylum seeker Hassana Aalia, who is in danger of death in Morocco. At the same time, they have adopted a law so that foreign millionaires can benefit from golden visas in Spain. Finally, we must repeat that summary expulsions or rejections at the border, as you call them, are illegal under international and European law. That is what the Council of Europe, the European Union and the UN have told you, but you don't care. You think everyone's wrong except you, don't you? Occasionally, a positive development, such as the opening of asylum offices at border posts, has proved unserviceable, as Moroccan security forces prevent the arrival of sub-Saharan applicants at these offices. It's over, Mr. President. Ultimately, in our view, foreign policies in the State must be radically changed, in accordance with legality, common sense and humanitarianism. Gentlemen of the PP, stop rewarding virgins and saints and make greater pain of sins and purpose of amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. I must congratulate Mr Coscubiela on the motion put forward by his group, which has been well prepared, and also for the side-effects on what it means to be left-wing and right-wing today. These second ones deserve a less enthusiastic support from my group, for incorporating more confusion into the already prevailing one on these issues and problems of location of both with these somewhat reductionist reflections that it has made. In any case, apart from these circumstances, he is right that the foreign policy of the Spanish State or of Europe is not humanitarian. Moreover, European policy is very weak. It is perverse for the countries of the European Union to be negotiating quotas of 40,000 people, moreover unsuccessfully. Where is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which in its article 14 states that a person who is persecuted for ethnic or religious reasons, for conflict or for humanitarian reasons, and who can prove it, must be recognized as a refugee and must be provided with his right of asylum? Where is this precept? How have we transfigured and perverted it in this way, so that we are negotiating quotas of 40,000 people? How do we know it's 40,000? How can we predetermine the number of refugees, when we are witnessing the displacement of millions of people due to war conflicts, ethnic persecution or even humanitarian reasons linked to hunger and the lack of expectations in their places of life? Why is it 40,000? How can such precise numerical predetermination of these characteristics be made, which is also not going to be made because it is not going to be achieved? How peaceful and weak is Community policy in this and so many other areas? This makes it very difficult to make progress towards a common European area of a political nature; in any case it is an economic one, and it is also a bad one. From this perspective, we demand the implementation of universal declarations signed by the Spanish State and by all the countries of the European Union, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union of 2007, and the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees of 1952. These rules are being transfigured, Mr President, dangerously. It is no longer enough to invoke or accredit persecution to obtain the right of asylum automatically, but now it is necessary to belong to a quota, negotiated on spurious criteria, which are not linked to reasons of persecution, or to ethnic affiliation, to reasons of sexual, religious orientation, etc. Spanish legislation, Law 12/2009, which regulates the right to asylum, is also not being complied with, and it is therefore very important to invoke it with regard to regeneration and compliance with this law. Where the legitimate circumstances of the right of asylum can be established, it must be granted; it is not at the dawn of the administrative authorities of a State, it must inevitably be granted when they are accredited. You cannot believe what you say, Mr Coscubiela, because you are returned as soon as you appear on the border. Who can prove these conditions, when we have legalized what until now, until the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, was a crime? It was a crime of illegal deportation, which with this law has been transformed into something lawful and something legal, which is the hot return, what euphemistically is called rejection at the border and about what the Minister of the Interior - despite his important efforts to explain what this well-deserved legal institution consists - has failed to convince us; I do not know if those of his own group... I'm afraid not, either. Expand the number of asylum offices in all border countries? Fundamentally instrumental. Defending effective rescue mechanisms at sea before the European institutions, where thousands of people are dying because there are currently no instruments to save human life? Mandatory rescue at sea in the face of an imminent risk, which ends the lives of many migrants, is recognized as an historic ancestral right. To recognize this is an obvious fact, it is enough to belong to a purely civilized political structure, merely humanitarian, in order to meet the requirements of material justice and of customs and customs that have always existed in the history of humanity, even in non-democratic countries, even in fascist countries have practiced this system of relief. Regularization by rooting? The root has de facto disappeared, not formally but materially, from our legal system. Family reunification? It has materially disappeared from our legal system, although not formally; it remains in the law, but we will not be able to regularise a situation through family reunification if we do not amend Directive 2003/86, as you rightly ask. Acquisition of nationality, ten to five years? It is already going to be done with the Sephardics and other collectives, why not with foreigners who at present invoke their status as persecuted on political, ethnic, sexual or religious grounds? Why not with these? Eliminate the integration test? It's just that the integration test is a Lepe joke. How is a metacultural integration test configured in another country? Should we take a sevillana course or participate in a potato tortilla contest? How is it identified that a person is metaculturally integrated and is therefore legitimized to be part of a different human collective, a different human collective just because it belongs to a different administration and institutions, not because it is more humane than the one that happens to be? And in the area of civil rights, in the area of reciprocity, for the purpose of exercising the right of active and passive suffrage, I fully agree. With regard to the closure of detention centres, Mrs Esteve commented on the characteristics of our detention centres.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u169	Mr. Olabarría, I have to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u170	It's over, Mr. President. I can assure you, Mr President, that there are prisons in the Spanish State with better benefits than the detention centres for foreigners that currently exist. With this situation, from a perspective of civilization, one cannot coexist. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mrs Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u172	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with something to call a humanitarian crisis by its name; what is happening in the Mediterranean is a humanitarian crisis. From my group's point of view, it is clear that the government's policies have no heart, but we ask them to at least have a head. What is happening is that over the past year 3,500 people were killed trying to get to Europe by fleeing, in 80% of the cases - Frontex figure - from conflict, war and certain death. Some of those Syrians, for example, who risk an adventure like that, have declared that they prefer to risk dying once crossing the Mediterranean to expose themselves to dying several times a day in their own country. Therefore, we face a limit situation, which puts our hearts as citizens and legislators - I insist - to the test, but also our heads and the wisdom of the policies that apply. Eighty per cent of these people who flee come from countries such as Syria, Eritrea, Somalia or Afghanistan and are therefore entitled to international protection, asylum or refugee status. We are certainly aware that the migration issue is a complex problem and that we must combine migration policies, cooperation policies, foreign policy itself and diplomatic action; in many cases these are policies whose effects are seen in the long term and all this is aggravated by the fact that they occur on a European border on which twenty-seven countries are pronounced, each with their different national interests, almost always or often before common interests and humanitarian solutions. But in the midst of all this drama, of all this complexity of policies, interests, legislation, etc., the issue that needs to be addressed, which urges us to address this motion of the Plural Left, is that thousands of people are dying at the gates of Europe before our eyes, and those dead, ladies and gentlemen, are questioning us. From the point of view of my group, there is no doubt that the priority of the European governments should be, which is as simple as preventing that scandalous number of deaths from growing, first, because it is human lives that are being lost and, second, because passiveness defiles our conscience of European citizens. It also happens that this chilling increase in deaths does not happen by chance, but is directly related on some occasions to distant causes - wars, conflicts and hunger - but also have very close and very direct causes and concrete political decisions that have been made from our country or from the community institutions, and I will mention only two, only the most obvious. It was decided to suspend the Mare Nostrum protection and rescue operation and replace it with Operation Triton, which has a border control mandate. The European policy of protecting people and rescuing them at sea was radically changed to see how to get rid of them, and that produces direct deaths, because Mare Nostrum had the power to approach the borders of North Africa in search of people to save and Triton does not have them, to set just one example. The second political decision which has direct consequences, which directly causes death, is the blockade, hindering the procedures for the legal arrival of persons who are entitled to international protection, asylum status or refuge; blocking by procedures as uncivilized as the fence that has been built on the border of Bulgaria and Turkey to prevent precisely the arrival of Syrian refugees, or otherwise blocking in a more subtle way: the policy of this Government not to comply with the quotas allocated, to commit itself at parliamentary level - because it has done so at the request of my group the Minister for Foreign Affairs - to accept more Syrian refugees and then to fail to comply systematically. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not only letting people die in the Mediterranean, but we are also allowing all the pressure from those fleeing the war in Syria, for example, to be borne by neighbouring countries such as Lebanon or Jordan, turning the area into an even greater dustbin than it is. These decisions today will also have consequences tomorrow. These are political decisions that cause deaths and are not justified from any point of view by migratory pressure, as the Government often wants us to believe. I will give only one data, the source of which is the National Institute of Statistics: in 2014, the migration balance in Spain was 25,693 fewer people; that is, not only do we not suffer migratory pressure, but it is more people who leave Spain than those who enter. It is therefore not justified from any point of view, except from absolute closure and ideological dogmatism, to put so many obstacles on people who deserve refugee status, asylum status, in short, international protection. We believe that it is our Government's obligation to comply with the quotas agreed in the European Commission with European partners, to establish and seek alliances with countries - it has also been said here - that suffer situations that we can suffer tomorrow, with the countries with which we constitute the southern border of Europe, such as Italy and Greece, and to promote the restoration of a European mission for the rescue and protection of people, rescue, a mission such as Mare Nostrum, as well as facilitating the legal settlement to avoid...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u173	Mrs. Lozano, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u174	I'll be done right away, President. We need to make it easier for settlements and relocation to be done legally and thus avoid irregular entry. It is, as I said at the beginning - I finish - not only about politics with the heart, but above all about doing it with the head. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Oramas has placed the debate on its right terms, since the experience of the citizens of the Canary Islands a few years ago. This is a question of European dimension and there cannot be an answer without a European approach, but at this time the European position must embarrass us, because Europe only has a security approach to this question, has been unable to agree on the reception of refugees crossing the Mediterranean and seems to agree only on military intervention in Libya. Perhaps we should intervene in Libya, but we all know that if today we are only able to intervene in Libya, but not to jointly manage migratory flows, then perhaps it is not Libya, but it will be Bulgaria or Greece or it will be the Canary Islands again. We believe that a different approach from Europe must take on the dimension of this issue. Secondly - I think Mr Coscubiela said this in his speech - we cannot make alarms about migratory flows and less about them from the Spanish State, because as far as their size is concerned, the irregular migratory flow in Spain in the European context is extremely small. Therefore, we do not cause any more concern among public opinion. Third question. Spain must assume its obligations, which are of two kinds: those which belong to us as Europeans - to welcome those refugees which the Commission has proposed and which would be perfectly manageable for our society - and, in particular, to enforce international laws in Ceuta and Melilla. I had the opportunity to be on the land border with Melilla a few weeks ago and there were no conditions for recognition of the right of asylum for people from Syria. In the Melilla CETI, which is for about 500 places, just a few weeks ago there were more than 2,000 people overcrowded, most of them, about 1,500 Syrians, and 200 minors. If that didn't fall apart, it was because of the professionalism of those responsible who worked at the CETI in Melilla. There are responsibilities that do not depend on Europe, that depend on the Spanish Government and that are not being seriously implemented. We will vote in favour of the motion put to us by Mr Coscubala, although there are two issues that would be worth more reflection than this morning's debate: the reform of access to nationality, a very important debate that we have not addressed in these fifteen years of migratory phenomenon, and the detention centres, where the issue is not so much whether to close them or not, but whether we have an alternative model to the existing CIEs today. That is where I invite La Izquierda Plural and Mr Coscubiela to flee from the holder and to go into depth in this matter, where the issues are much more complex and at the same time can be more useful in defending the rights of people, and at the same time a coherent immigration policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Escobar has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. I will start with an appointment - if I may, as the debate has taken place on the humanitarian front - of one of the largest authorities in the area of humanitarian law, such as René Cassin. René Cassin said - and we share it - that nothing human is alien to us. It is precisely because nothing human is alien to us that we understand that the dignity of anyone has to be truly protected from responsibility, and always under the protection of the law. Without legality, without responsibility, without order, we will fall into ineffective voluntarism or false goodism. The only truly effective immigration policy, if immigration is to be inclusive, must always be regular. The solution, gentlemen of the Plural Left, cannot be to overthrow borders, to suppress detention centres, to repeal laws or to grant nationality to all, that is to say with all due respect. This will inevitably bring us closer to social failure. In other words, feelings cannot replace legality, because we neither help the immigrant nor help the society that has to accept him. I will give you a personal testimony; I do not like it, but as we are few Members. I have the immense fortune of helping in a social dining room in Logroño, in Economic Cooking. As the harvest approaches I can tell you that of the 400 daily meals we distribute in the dining room 300 are to immigrants, in round numbers. I can assure you that the immigrant is helped with the job, is helped with the attention, with the programs that are in place, but since it is not helped with the demagoguery, with all the affection I say. Since it is not helped by demagoguery, and in that sense I want to say that solidarity is practiced, but it is not exhibited with great speeches, I think it is necessary to do so in another way. That is why I say that we are facing a global problem, a deep problem that no more or less means that 232 million people around the world will change their countries driven by different reasons. The humanitarian aspect is clear that it is fundamental, but security or sovereignty itself must also be. In this context, I have to tell you that Spain is a host country. Replying to UPyD spokesperson I have to share a data. Of the 895,000 immigrants in 2004, we have increased to 5 million in 2014 in Spain, the country that has grown the most in the number of immigrants. Add more data: 7,300 kilometers of coast; Ceuta and Melilla are the most transited border crossings in the world. This is our reality. What has that done to us, to this country? A host country. And I'm going to give you two data. To what extent can all Spaniards be satisfied with the work that is being done among all the governments, which I am not saying is the merit of the People's Party, but of all the governments? 80% of immigrant children feel Spanish. That does not happen in any country in Europe. According to the Pew Research Center, the feeling of rejection is that of minors from all over Europe. Where does that lead us? In other words, immigration policy in Spain is a collective success. In order to remain this way, projects must continue to be made responsibly, but also legally. What is the basis of legality? In four areas: prevention in origin, operational cooperation, combating trafficking networks, and improvement in border management. What is the main instrument? European Migration Agenda, which was adopted on 13 May in the European Union, and which is what we are defending from Spain in the G-6, at bilateral meetings, in Mauritania by the Minister of the Interior, in Morocco, in Niger, in Chad, etc. I remind you that the greatest unfortunate flow - I say unfortunate because unfortunately many people died - occurred in Spain in the years 2005 and 2006, with the so-called crisis of the cayucos. 38,000 people arrived - Mrs Oramas said - in the Canary Islands. From these situations Spain has learned and we have reduced illegal traffic in the Atlantic by 90%, but everything is little, because we cannot put doors to the countryside and much less to the sea, it is worth saying, and that is why we are promoting a European agenda on migration. As far as asylum is concerned - Mr President, I ask you, please, a little clemency in the use of time - I think it is important to share with you this fact: Spain happily remains a country of asylum for all. This protection has been increased by 40%. We have increased from 2,588 in 2012 to 5,845 in 2014, and for those who complained that we have not been sensitive to the Syrian displaced, it must be said that all applications for protection of Syrian nationals have been admitted. Asylum offices in Ceuta and Melilla have even had the European Asylum Support Agency itself, providing training to those responsible. Of course, it must be said that these offices have legal coverage thanks to the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, which has been so criticized by the left. That law now provides that protection for those who may be the subject of asylum protection, and that is why we have to say that Spain is deeply supportive. Temporary residence, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the Law on Aliens of the Socialist Administration, is envisaged with a much broader regime than in the European directive itself. In other words, we are more generous in implementing the directive. The record times have been reduced by 60%, the returns, expulsions and refusals in entry have been reduced by 20% compared to 2013, and by 15% the expulsions, and of all them 80% - in order for us to put everything to the right extent - are people who are in an irregular situation and with a background. It is an important mention of the work of the detention centres, because you propose simply and simply to close them.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u179	Mr. Escobar, I've given you a few minutes and you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u180	As you congratulated me, I thought...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u181	The birthday present was two minutes, but it's been a while.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u182	I'll keep them, Mr. President. As far as political participation is concerned, because of this important issue, I will say that Spain has always maintained a vocation to incorporate, improve, and facilitate political participation. It has already been done with the amendment of the Constitution, but on the other hand, as you know perfectly well, we now have reciprocity agreements with twelve countries, and that is on the rise. I inevitably end up with that reference that painfully always occurs when we talk about defending our borders, and that's what you call very bad and very poorly hot return, and that's rejection at the border. It is a procedure prior to non-admission, return or expulsion. In other words, gentlemen of the left, it is a question of avoiding nothing more or less than illegal, violent and group entry within the border perimeter, and always trying to protect the physical integrity of which it intends to assault the border. This is what the amendment envisages. On the other hand, that is also in the law that you so much criticized: the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security. Ladies and gentlemen, only when immigration becomes an option, when immigration is not a drama and is not a necessity, will we only then have succeeded among all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u183	Thank you very much, Mr Escobar. Mr Coscubala, has Mrs Esteve tabled an amendment to you?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u184	Yeah. We are working on the possibility of a compromise amendment that would reflect some of the concerns raised. I'll try to make them all...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u185	You have time until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u186	I will try to make it all but that will of the People's Group to call the poor immigrants. They're poor, no matter where they were born.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u187	You'll write that as you see fit. Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN THE GOVERNMENT TO RENEW AND UPDATE THE AGREEMENT ON A CODE OF CONDUCT IN RELATION TO 'TRANSFUGUISM'. [[File number 173/000218]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u188	Motion by the Progressive Union and Democracy Group on the steps the Government intends to take to renew and update the agreement on a code of conduct on transfuguism. The defense of it will be done by Mr. Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u189	Thank you, Mr. President. This motion is a consequence of the inquiry we presented last week, and is well known in its general lines and in its details. Finally, it has been reduced to three points, in the first of which the Government and political parties with institutional representation not only parliamentary but also municipal, in autonomous parliaments and in the European Parliament, are urged to renew and update the 1998 agreement on transfuguism. Secondly, the agreement on transfuguism is called for to be extended to any representative institution, i.e. to all parliaments plus municipalities. Thirdly, the original wording of the motion suggested that the Congress of Deputies should urge the Government to undertake the necessary legal reforms so that those public representatives elected by the list of one party could not be transferred to another party with the post, as is often said colloquially. At this point the Socialist Group has tabled an amendment which I will accept, because although it does not say exactly that - I will now go into the reflection on the fundamental question, which is that this legal change would require a constitutional reform - at least, if these three points are adopted, there would be an advance, an interesting progress in the opposition to that phenomenon, which, as I said in the previous intervention, is a real cancer, a pathology of representative democracy, a phenomenon which, together with corruption, with which it is closely related, leads to the delegitimization of politics, of political parties, and of everything that the institutional system of representation entails. The Socialist Group's amendment, which we will accept in its literality, says that the Congress of Deputies urges the Government to address within the framework of the agreement on transfuguism all measures which, while respecting the content of the constitutional right of political participation, can deepen the purpose of this agreement, that is, to promote measures to ensure that the will of the citizens expressed in the elections is respected, as it constitutes the essential expression of a democratic regime, as well as to evaluate the implementation of those already agreed. Having said that, I would like to make a more political, more in-depth reflection on something to which we must pay more attention than merely anecdotal one. The problem of transfuguism does not only affect certain elected public officials, especially councillors. As has already been said here, it has been a phenomenon that has particularly affected the municipalities in recent years, and in that sense the current agreement has achieved some progress that we do not deny, but there is a fundamental problem that has to do with the undoubted delegitimization that the representative system as such, that is, democracy based on elected public representatives under certain conditions and with certain competences, has suffered in recent years not only in Spain, but generally in many democratic countries. One of the consequences, as is known of this phenomenon, of transfuguism, and of this loss of legitimacy, is precisely the idea that political parties - new or old, but political parties in the modern sense of the term - have become little less than trade unions of interests, whose only function is to betray the word given to their voters, and to make all kinds of agreements behind them. This goes beyond the proposal on transfuguism that we have put forward in this motion; however, it is at the heart of the debate. What my group intends with this motion is to return at least from the institutions to the system of representative democracy part of the legitimacy of exercise that it has lost, and has lost part of that legitimacy of exercise precisely by a vicious exercise, based on opaque pacts, in agreements that do not correspond to what was presented as a programme in the elections, to the widespread practice of understanding that political representation is ultimately a private good that is in the hands of the party, or what is even worse, in the hands of certain subjects, that it is the transfugas. We know that the constitutional difficulty in Spain in implementing more forceful measures against transfuguism is the prohibition of a mandatory mandate. This is also of interest to you. The imperative mandate was banned - rightly, but not without contradiction - for two essential reasons. Firstly, because a deliberative democracy - representative democracies are or pretend to be - cannot function with revokable delegates who are subject to a mandate from their constituents, and who actually function as delegates and not as representatives. Why? Because deliberation cannot foresee or anticipate all the points that are going to be subject to controversy and vote, nor how far the discussion will go. Evidently a system of representative delegates, which is typical of an assembly democracy, ends up leading sooner or later to the failure of representative democracy; and this was tried to alleviate or avoid by banning the imperative mandate. Secondly, because representative democracy is also part of the premise that public representatives - we - have to have broad deliberative freedom for the making of agreements, that in our group we think they have to be free, with only two conditions: of course they are legal, and above all that they are public and known beforehand, during their deliberation, and then when they sign. What is the problem with this system of representative democracy as raised in the 19th century? For it was actually based on a certain fiction: the fiction that we are representatives of the nation understood as a political community in which there were no great differences, and therefore through deliberation we could reach the general interest. Since this is not the case, political parties appeared, which are known to be after the emergence of democracy. The political parties have a commitment to our constituents that we are not only going to deliberate and represent them, but that we are also going to do an equally important third thing, which is to defend and maintain the idea of the political party - for which we receive much of our electoral support - and we are going to maintain and defend here the programme that we have led to the elections. We already know that after that it has to have wide margins of flexibility and pragmatism in the application, but the original principle - although unfortunately it is often betrayed, and that has led to the exercise legitimation crisis to which I referred - nobody discusses it. Political parties have to defend their agenda and have to be faithful and loyal to the ideal for which they are voted by their electorate. Transfuguism appears precisely in this contradiction between the existence of political parties, which do have a sort of imperative relationship with their constituents, which is an explicit commitment - although it is not a legal contract, it is certainly moral - to defend an idea, and the fact that representatives, by not having an imperative mandate, seem to be exempt from that obligation. That's where transfuguism hangs, with this kind of corrupt subjects - which is what they are - who corrupt the representative system, and assume their public office as a personal mandate, when it is not, because they have gone on a list of a political party; and let's not say anything if it is, as is the case in Spain, in a system of closed lists, with the relative exception of lists for the Senate. Finally, what we want is for this motion and others that could be discussed in the future to go deeper into something that is of the greatest importance, and that - I insist - is the defence of representative democracy as the best political system for the complex societies in which we live; any other alternative is usually worse, and sometimes perverse. Transfuguism has here not only a value of legal importance to maintain - as has been said and all groups have repeated in their interventions - respect for the popular will expressed in the ballot boxes, but it has another important value, which is that of exemplaryness. A transfugue should always be a political pariah in all institutions. That is why we think that it is not enough with a code of good conduct, but in this case we have accepted the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because at least we would be content with improving the current one and extending it to all the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. As the honourable Member himself has rightly said, there is an amendment from the Socialist Group, and Mrs Castellano has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a motion following an inquiry by the Parliamentary Group on Progress Union and Democracy into the transfuguism agreement. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment which I will now explain, but we agree with the general thrust of the motion. We agree on the need to renew and update an agreement signed in 1998, the last revision of which was already in 2006. It is true that cases of transfuguism are becoming smaller and smaller not only because fortunately today we can say that the widespread reprobation of this practice is something that has been falling into our democratic culture, but also because this issue was largely resolved by the reform of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime carried out in 2011, thanks to the efforts of all the political groups in the Chamber. Article 197.1(a) of the Act provides that if any of the proponents of the motion of censure formed or had formed part of the municipal political group to which the mayor whose censure is proposed belongs, the majority required in the preceding paragraph would be increased by the same number of councillors who are in such circumstances. In this way there is a double effect: on the one hand, the commission of transfuguism is disincentived, and on the other hand, the possibility of carrying it out is de facto eliminated at the time of the motion of censure. However, it is true that the problem of transfuguism goes far beyond the motion of censure, and that we must not forget that this is a demand of citizens towards political parties and public authorities, to ensure the total eradication of this practice in all public institutions, because this practice only contributes to undermining the disaffection of people with politics, to undermining the credibility and quality of the representative system. It is therefore our duty to continue to work, review and update such agreements. We also agree on the need to extend the validity of the current agreement in the representative institutions, since we know that it is not only at the local level, the incidence of which can be greater, but it can be in any area - Congress, Senate or autonomous parliaments - which should also be affected by the effectiveness of this measure. Moreover, at a political moment like the present, of renewal, of change, in which there have been a number of emerging forces that have entered with institutional representation, it would be desirable, it would be advisable for these new forces to enter as participants and signatories of this pact against transfuguism. That said, we cannot forget that our system is a representative democracy; the essential thing for one person to legitimately represent another is the trust that is given from representative to representative. Trust is the key to genuine representativeness. In the political world, by the very nature of the matters to be taken, i.e. because they are general matters, of general interest, the representative is much more than a manager, since he does not have a specific mandate for a specific matter; hence the constitutional prohibition of a mandatory mandate, which would turn representatives into delegates or deputies into prosecutors. The political representative must see them with unthinkable matters, with new circumstances, and he cannot play his role if the representatives limit their scope of action. The link between the representative and the representative is nothing but trust. We cannot, however, ignore or forget the role of political parties in this respect. We must be aware that when citizens at the time of exercising their right to vote not only vote for a candidature or certain representatives, they do so because these representatives have explicitly acquired the commitment to carry out the political and programmatic ideal of a particular party; that is, when placing their trust, citizens do so in a candidature, yes, but also in a political party. In Kelsen's words: democracy is only possible when individuals, in order to achieve action on collective will, meet in organizations defined for various political purposes. With this I would like to highlight the close link between the electorate and the electorate, but also between the third signatory of that democratic pact, which is nothing other than political parties. For this reason, citizens have an expectation that they will not be disappointed about the duty of understanding and loyalty to govern between a political party and its candidacy for elections, since when the voter exercises his or her right he or she designates his or her representative, yes, but on condition that he or she fulfils his or her commitment to implement the electoral programme of the party with which they attended the elections. Therefore, when there is a case of transfuguism, there is also a deep breakdown of the system, of trust, of loyalty and of the coherence that people expect from their representatives. The bankruptcy takes place in front of a party, it is true, but above all in front of a citizen who feels cheated, feels that he has not placed his trust in people who only want to improve their expectations for the future, without there really being genuine ideological motivations. With transfuguism the vocation of public service is lost, which is the one that must guide all actions of elected officials. It is also harmful in many other respects: it distorts political representation, weakens the party system, undermines governability and stability, favours corruption and seriously undermines democratic culture and quality. As deplorable as this practice is, we must not forget that what is proposed in paragraph 3 of the motion is abrupt with what is laid down in the Constitution, which explicitly prohibits the mandatory mandate in its article 67.2. It is also shocked by the doctrine established so far by the Constitutional Court, which, while recognizing the role of political parties, does so not as holders of the right to participation itself, but as fundamental instruments that are to make it possible, by attending, as the Constitution wishes, the formation and manifestation of the will of the people. The most emblematic cases in this area were the subject of two rulings of the Constitutional Court, 5/1983 and 10/1983, in which article 11.7 of the Local Elections Act was declared unconstitutional, which provided for precisely what was requested in paragraph 3 of this motion: the loss of the status of councillor who had ceased to belong to a party for which he was elected. The court declares this precept unconstitutional by saying that, once elected, representatives are not elected from those who voted for them, but from the entire electoral body, and thus hold a public function to which they cannot terminate decisions of entities that are not State organs in the broadest sense of the term. This is the reason for our amendment. What we have come to say is that from the Socialist Party it will certainly push all those measures aimed at improving our democratic health and quality, because in vain we have a commitment to transparency, ethics, and public service, values that we firmly believe in, and that we will do our utmost to safeguard in each and every institution in which we are represented, but we will certainly never do so by losing sight of fundamental rights such as political participation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u192	Mrs. Castellano, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u193	That is why we call for all possible avenues to be sought to banish such unfortunate behaviour from all public institutions, but of course to bring it into line with the laws and the provisions of the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs Castellano. Mr Esteban has the floor on behalf of the Vasco PNV Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is that I am surprised that UPyD is raising this issue right now, because, on the one hand, they have always enthusiastically defended the representative system, the representative mandate. They have always stressed that - which does not appear anywhere at all - as a national deputy, because it represents all citizens. Now they bring us, with a different approach and with which I agree, a problem, gives me the internal feeling that they have at the moment, and suddenly they get it out when, as the previous speaker has said, the problem of transfuguism has been diminishing thanks to the agreements adopted between the political parties in 1998 and 2006. But it has gone further, concrete steps have been taken with legislative changes, eliminating, for example, the possibility that transfuguism will influence, through a mechanism of motion of censure, in changes of government, the issue of the non-registered, decisions have been made such as the creation of monitoring commissions not only by political parties, but in the case of discrepancies the creation of an independent committee of experts that can clarify doubtful cases; there is even a commitment by political parties not to be included in electoral lists. But you have brought us here with a trunk theme that I can agree with, which is an obvious problem, the representative mandate comes from the democratic theory that develops mainly throughout the 19th century, we have remained with those principles, but the mechanisms when it comes to the functioning of parliamentarianism are absolutely different. Apart from the theory it has begun to speak - which is ultimately what it has brought here - of the replacement of the representative mandate by the so-called ideological mandate, that is, the candidates who are then elected are subject to a programmatic commitment. This sincerely has not been very successful in the positive constitutional law of our environment, with exceptions, and the most remarkable was the Portuguese Constitution after the revolution. Article 163.1 stated that members of a party other than the party for which they were elected would lose their office. It also specifically deletes any reference to the prohibition of a mandatory mandate. He is therefore admitting a mediated imperative mandate, which would be what would come on the programme and that is what we would call an ideological mandate. I can agree with that foresight, but for that we must change article 67.2 of the Constitution; there is no other way of doing so. It is also necessary to consider what a transfugue is, because it is also not appropriate for a person to change his political party to be immediately described as a transfugue. Everyone has the freedom to change or evolve in their thinking and, therefore, must be distinguished. I say this because, perhaps, with the warming of events that are taking place around their political formation these days, sometimes the terms can be confused. In my opinion, a transfuga is who constitutes, maintains or changes majorities of government in public institutions in violation of the will expressed by the voters. Moreover, as stated in one of the agreements between the parties, not only the parties, but also those who benefit from their conduct could be described as transfugas and apply to them the agreements that the parties signed. I insist, that would be a transfugue, which takes advantage of the political position, of the position it has obtained under a different programmatic mandate. Another thing is that someone can change ideology or political party or approach. Therefore, not everyone who changes is transfugas. I insist, we have to change the Constitution. I would not object to a follow-up committee meeting once again and being able to renew the pacts, but I believe that it has been adopted so far also in legislative terms. I do not agree that it applies only to municipal matters. It is true that there have been the legislative changes basically, but I believe that the agreement - and more in these current times - reaches all areas at state, autonomous and local level. What this Parliament cannot do, however, is to influence what happens in the European Parliament. Obviously, there you will have to present the relevant initiatives and see how you can focus on that area. I believe that this is basically in line, and I do not think it is necessary to invent anything, but to maintain the commitments and agreements that each party has reached, and that is something that we will not oppose. That at a certain point in time of constitutional amendment - which I hope will come soon - we should consider amending Article 67.2? Then you will also count on our vote. Thank you very much for your generosity, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Group of the Plural Left, I have the floor, Mr Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u197	Thank you, President. Our group will vote in favour of this initiative. We agree that transfuguism should be pursued, regulated and the mechanisms for its control strengthened. But it is also true that the debate today, unlike a few years ago, has taken on a new dimension. Where? Obviously, the problem of transfuguism remains a problem. We do not give up the regulation and the extension of the management of that concept, but it is true that today we could be talking about a kind of law of democratic quality that regulates and aims to address more than just transfuguism. What am I talking about? I am talking about that today some of the problems we have, for example, are problems with our current Electoral Law, because not all votes are worth the same in Spain. Today the problem we have is the financing of the parties, the party system, because for decades in this country there have been parties that have presented themselves and won elections by financing their electoral campaigns with B boxes, and that is an objective fact. That is therefore also a political problem. Or, for example, that the Spaniards who live outside Spain today cannot vote. I want to say that when we talk about democratic quality and transfuguism, we cannot forget to talk about and address these other issues, as some of them have moved to the front line, even ahead of the problem of transfuguism and are therefore even more urgent. I think it's worth dealing with. I repeat once again that when we left the Transition, the system of political parties was a great democratic advance, because we went from being unable to make politics in parties to being able to make politics and develop democratically through political parties. Thirty-five years later, however, we must also say that today the party system has become a system with signs of sclerosis and that it must be reformed. Obviously, the new ways of doing politics, the new political parties and the new political actors that are not parties are telling us every day and we must reflect on that. Therefore, the concept of transfuguism itself is also modified here and acquires more elements. For example, today we could talk about transfuguism when there are political parties that present a programme and then make a policy different from the programme with which they have presented themselves to the elections. I ask: what is that? We can get you a word. But what is that?What is non-compliance with the electoral commitment? Or when political decisions are made induced by undemocratic and undemocratic political actors such as the troika. There are European countries, in the case of Spain also with the bank bailout, where we have applied a negotiated memorandum induced by non-democratic political actors. What's that? You can call it transfuguism or what you think is convenient. Or, for example, public office today cannot be exercised in the same way as it was three, four, five or ten years ago. Elements of transparency and revocability must appear on the political agenda. Although we are not talking about legal elements that are incorporated into our system, that debate must appear because it is a citizen's claim. Today in virtually all electoral debates many new and old formations begin with an ethical code. Without ethical code we are not credible; instead, there are laws and we are respecting them. But more, more democracy, more transparency, more commitments are needed. So, yes, let's reinforce the issue of commitments against transfuguism, but let's not stare at the finger, let's look at the moon. The country is changing and we must change with the country, if not, the country will change us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the People's Group, Mr Matarí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, although it is not my intention to make wood from the falling tree, it is impossible not to say a few things. Mr Gorriaran, it is all very well that you have said in the rostrum and I can share a few things, but I agree with you that presenting parliamentary initiatives to respond to the internal problems of political formation itself is not the most uplifting thing, I would even say that it is not the best practices that have been seen in this House. You respond to your internal problems by proposing the loss of institutional representation of the transfugas that change political party, as Mr Esteban also said in his speech. Mr. Gorriaran, have you ever thought that if the proposal they make in this motion were in force, perhaps some leader of your party would have been declared transfuga there for the years 2007 or 2008? Ladies and gentlemen, in paragraph 3 of the motion they propose a legal reform so that a public office automatically loses its status if it joins a party other than that for which it was elected. You know very well that this proposal is contrary to the case law that the Constitutional Court has established since the beginning of democracy by repeatedly pointing out that the seat belongs to the elected Member of Parliament or Council and not to the party or political formation by whose list it is elected. It is well aware that the basis of this principle is in article 67.2 of the Constitution, which states that members of the Chambers are not bound by an imperative mandate. Moreover, his proposal is contrary to article 23 of our Constitution. They are proposing that the Government initiate full constitutional reform to respond to an internal UPyD problem, and I tell you that we are not going to support this interested proposal on your part. We already know that the charge of transfuguism is often used in cases of splits and schisms in political parties. That's true and it's not something new. What is new is that parliamentary initiatives should be taken in response to such splits or abandonments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Anti-Transfuguism Pact is in force and, after the last agreement in 2011 between the People's Party, the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and Convergence i Unió, is more effective than ever. In addition, it incorporates a proposal made by Mr Bermúdez de Castro during the work carried out in this House to demand a reinforced majority in the case of motions of censure signed by a transfugue. Much progress has been made in the fight against transfuguism since 1998, and precisely as Minister of Public Administrations Mariano Rajoy, the Anti-Transfuguism Pact was signed, a pact which, as discussed here this morning, has been expanded and improved with two additions in the years 2000 and 2006, and to which political forces have been incorporated that did not sign it at its origin. It is therefore a voluntary pact that commits parties that sign it in any institution in which they are represented. That is to say, it can be applied perfectly to the representative institutions to which the text of your motion refers, Mr Gorriaran, without the need to make any legal changes and without the need to revise it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to reform the existing pact, of course, but the most important thing is to comply with it and, in any case, the revision or reform would be the initiative of the political parties or groups and not the Government. The covenant, as always, is open to all; no one is excluded, anyone can be incorporated at any time. You yourself, Mr Gorriaran, requested your incorporation when you requested it. All I know is that I was part of the Commission to follow up on the Anti-Transfuguism Pact between 2008 and 2011 and I didn't see them there, when they could have been perfectly if they wanted to. Surely, as Mr. Esteban insinuated, these were other times, times when UPyD received additions from other parties and perhaps he was not interested in signing that pact. You requested your incorporation in September 2012; you could have done it before, but you will know why you did it when you did. Ladies and gentlemen, we are ready to speak, to have dialogue between parties, between parliamentary groups, as always; we are ready to do in the framework of that dialogue what we have always done: proposals to combat political transfuguism, proposals that can improve a pact that has undoubtedly been very useful in combating this abnormal conduct, which is a way of violating - and there are other ways, Mrs Castellano, and we will see it these days - the popular will expressed in the ballot box. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Mr. Martínez Gorriarán asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Matarí. Mr Gorriarán, in fact, there has been a direct reference to the attitude of his party at another time. To answer that allusion, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Tamarit has said - he has not even put it as a conjecture - that in my party we have signed off on the road. That's absolutely a lie; you've lied. We've never had a transfugue, that's right, we've been offered many, some of which have ended up in yours, who do like these kinds of practices. It would be better for you, before discussing the internal problems of the other parties, to take care of your own and, for example, to collaborate with the Civil Guard in the investigations of the municipalities governed by you, which yesterday I believe were twenty. That is indeed a serious problem for this country and for you. [[Mr Matarí Sáez asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u202	Mr. Matarí.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u203	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I don't think I've said what Mr. Gorriaran says. I don't know exactly what you mean. But, if you want, you could have given explanations, for example, about this: They impute for fraud and falsification to the UPyD candidate in relation to some invoices from their jewelry store, if you want to talk about those topics. [[Show a photocopy]] What I have said is that if the proposal that you are making, perhaps, in the years 2007 and 2008, some leader of your party would have been declared transfugue. That's all I've said to him. And I keep it. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!- Mrs Díez González asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u204	We are going to conclude this debate because I believe that they have been explained. Do you feel personally alluded to, Mrs. Díez? [[Consent]] So, you have the floor to respond to that personal allusion of yours, but not to talk about anything else, just so you can give the explanation that looks like that personal allusion of yours.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u205	There are two things about democracy: lies and cowardice. Of the two things the spokesman has shown...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u206	Mrs Díez, this is not about reopening the debate. You feel alluded to personally. To explain why that personal allusion is not right, you have the floor. If you use your time to enter the debate, I will take the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u207	Thank you, President. Mr Tamarit spoke of a leader in 2007 of the Progressive Union and Democracy, with the cowardice of not wanting to mention me. Look, Mr Tamarit, in 2007 this Member was a member of the Socialist Party. He left his record - I repeat, he left his record - and then he founded a political party. That's not transfuguism. Yours is transfuguism and corruption. [[Mr Matarí Sáez asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u208	Thank you, Mrs Díez, for sticking to this personal aspect. For the same reason, Mr Matarí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u209	Mrs. Díaz, Mrs. Díaz, I don't know why you alluded to me. All I'm saying is that you may have joined the Anti-Transfuguism Pact since 2008 - you were already a Member of this House - and you requested it and did it in September 2012. Why? And why do they now present an initiative that they could have presented a few years ago? Because then they were not interested in signing an anti-transfuguism pact. Now that it affects you, it's when you do it, Mrs. Díaz. [[Mrs. Díez González: Ten, my name is Díez! You are rude; rude and rude!-Mr.Bermúdez de Castro Fernández: And you called him Tamarit!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u210	This incident, which has no further route, is resolved. Then ask yourself why you call him Diaz and you'll tell him. Mr Martínez Gorriaran, I ask you what you are going to do with Mrs Castellano's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u211	As I said, we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-10-CD150610.u212	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was one and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
