ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u1	The meeting was resumed. We continue with the debate on the opinion of the General State Budgets Bill for 2016. First of all, the debate on section 25, Presidency. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u2	With the coming, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in this rostrum to set out the general outlines of the draft budget of the Ministry of the Presidency and its subordinate bodies for the year 2016; general outlines of a budget that is framed in the coherence that characterizes the public accounts that this Government has presented this year and the previous ones. We are consistent with our commitments to Europe, with the progress of Spain and with the efforts of all Spaniards throughout the crisis. We are consistent with the reformist project that we have promoted and with the results that the Spanish begin to perceive, because these budgets respond to the responsibility that has always been demonstrated in the tasks of government and the recovery that has finally managed to start Spain. Behind it lies the country on the verge of rescue in severe recession and with a continuous and growing loss of employment. Spain is now the fastest growing country among the major economies of the European Union, above 3%. Today Spain is the one that creates the most jobs, with a growth rate equal to that of its economy. Today Spain is one of the main exporting powers due to the observed improvement of our competitiveness. We have managed to change course, so we must strengthen our position, as these budgets do. These budgets record for the first time since 2006 a primary surplus, i.e. the balance without interest, which means lowering the debt burden with the assurance that bills are now being paid. Budgets that put the general government deficit below 3% for the first time since before the crisis, allowing Spain to exit the corrective part of the excessive deficit procedure to which we had been subject since 2009. And budgets which reflect a reduction in the non-financial expenditure ceiling of 4.4%, but which at the same time raise social expenditure to 53.5% of the total budget. These budgets are presented realistically in the forecasts and rigorously in the decisions, with only one main objective: to boost economic recovery. That is to say, to ensure the consolidation of growth and job creation, but also to compensate citizens for the efforts made both during the crisis and in fact to channel the recovery. This is about laying the foundations for growth so that we can continue to improve well-being, ensuring the stability that recovery needs. That and not another is why we are presenting these budgets. In the face of those in this rostrum who support the extension of the previous year's budgets, I would like to point out one point. These budgets enable measures to be taken to revive the economy and restore efforts to the citizens. When you raise in this rostrum the extension of the previous budgets, ask the citizens the following questions. Please tell them that with the 2015 budgets we could not take one of the decisions that these budgets have. For example, first, raise wages to public employees by 1% instead of keeping them frozen. Secondly, pay half of the extra payment due and complete the full refund of this contribution to officials after the 25% reinstatement approved by the Royal Decree-Law that we passed on Friday. Thirdly, to increase the replacement rate of public personnel to 100% in priority sectors, such as the provision and management of active employment policies or the external action of the State. Fourthly, to extend the funds for the assistance and integration of applicants for international protection, not only the initial 40 million of the July budget, but the amendment of the 200 million that all parliamentary groups agreed last week. Fifthly, almost 8% increase the financing of essential public health, education and social services provided by the Section 25, Presidency autonomous communities and local authorities. Sixth, to increase the available resources of the autonomous communities by almost €7.5 billion, which are added to the additional resources for saving interest resulting from the loans granted by the extraordinary financing mechanisms, almost €3 billion, in the same way that an increase of €542 million is provided to local entities. Eighth, without these budgets we would not be talking about an increase of 9.3% in spending on education policy, 7.3% on culture and 7.7% on social services and social promotion. Nine, without these budgets, resources for active employment policies would not increase by 10%, nor could a new special orientation programme for long-term unemployed be launched. Tenthly, without these budgets we could not adopt a 2.9% increase in pension policy or improve it for women who have been mothers; moreover, without this government, without the first budgets, we would still be talking about frozen pensions. You may consider these budgets unnecessary, but I believe that these ten reasons are sufficient to justify their approval and should be explained to the citizens. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are therefore the broad lines that inspire the General Budgets of the State for the coming year, and this is evident in each of the policies and is reflected in each of the departments. It is up to me to present the Ministry of the Presidency. It is true that we have a limited weight in the overall budget - 0.5%, EUR 455 million - and that the functions are mainly administrative, yet this ministry has coordinated the reformist programme of the Government and has taken on the new challenges that reality presents us as the coordination of the main crisis situations that this country has experienced in this legislature. The department's budget for the coming year will be marked by the following priorities: firstly, by the impetus of the reform of public administrations as an integral objective and the incorporation of transparency as a basis for democratic regeneration and, from the funding we provide to other bodies, the importance of improving our security at the present time and for the future and, thus, the reinforcement required by the National Intelligence Centre. I'll try to make this the axis of my department accounts exhibit. That is why, first of all, I will start with the reform of public administrations. It has been, is and will be an enormous task and an integral approach from which we have been dealing since the beginning of the legislature and which was placed in October 2012 in 122 proposals contained in the report of the Commission for the Reform of Public Administrations. Since then, 175 measures have been implemented under the impetus and follow-up of the office for the implementation of the reform, which is based in our department, and are fully completed; that is to say, today I can say that 80% of that report has been completed in its entirety. The savings for public administrations for all measures amount to EUR 22,877 million; with good management we have been able to save almost the same amount that the State spends on unemployment benefits, I think it has been worth it. To this are added the more than 2.5 billion savings for citizens and businesses, in addition to the 5 billion revenues from sales of industrial holdings available to the State. I am therefore talking about a total of almost EUR 30 billion, EUR 29.6 billion, to manage better, to do better and to spend better. But the effect of the reform goes far beyond the figures to reach the culture of the public, so that good management ceases to be an objective and becomes an obligation, to which will undoubtedly contribute the rules on administrative regime and procedure that will soon be in the Official Gazette of the State and that will, among other things, represent a determined impulse to the electronic administration and a reinforcement to avoid the proliferation of merely instrumental administrative structures; a reduction effort that has led us to suppress 2,194 public entities -107 in the State, 754 in the Autonomous Communities and 1,436 in the local authorities - so that this effort to avoid useless structures will become a structural dynamic. A dynamic that has also been very present within the Ministry of the Presidency itself in order to rationalize our spending and face up to new tasks. The department's budget, regardless of transfers to other seconded agencies, is further reduced by almost 3%, leaving it below EUR 130 million, despite the fact that we have been taking on new functions and tasks, particularly, as I said, coordination in crisis management, which requires the joint action of several ministries, administrations and institutions of all kinds at national and international level. Such were the health alert for Ebola infection, the management following the accident of Germanwings' flight to the Alps or, at the moment, the humanitarian crisis generated by the displacement of refugees arriving in the European Union seeking the security and freedom that does not exist in their countries of origin. We have taken on more tasks and very complex with less expenditure and no more staff, so it is up to us to be more effective and more efficient. All budget items remain frozen for 2016, with the exception of changes in staff and current expenditure, mainly due to the centralization of contracts and services. The Ministry of the Presidency has been making use of this rationalization formula throughout the legislature. By providing data, in all public administrations, only centralised purchasing has saved more than EUR 500 million. In fact, the information coverage services contract itself presented by the EFE Agency is centrally financed in one department - ours - with 38 million euros and savings of around 5, compared to when it was dispersed by the different ministries. In this year 2016 we foresee new experiences of centralisation and new savings, which is why the current expenditure experiences a reduction of more than 7%. Centralized recruitment is established in telecommunications or cleaning services, and these resources are transferred to the Ministry of Finance so that they can be managed in a more advantageous and efficient manner. Current expenditure items such as the State mobile fleet are also reduced, and austerity efforts in the representation costs that have characterized this department and the entire Government are maintained. We maintain the same departure as in the last two years and I can tell you that in both the Presidency and the Vice-President and the Ministry, what was spent in previous years was spent on only one. I must tell you, however, that the increase in budgets in the field of ministry staff is also caused by a CORA measure, that is, we increase staff but centralize a service so far dispersed. The telegraphic cabinets - of which you use them like me - have been centralized in the Presidency of the Government, which so far served separately in different ministries and bodies. Today we have concentrated this service in the Ministry of the Presidency and will reduce the number of personnel required for its provision through relocation or retirement mechanisms. Beyond that, the rest of the games remain constant. Secondly, and after the measures relating to the reform of public administrations, another effort we have had to make is the implementation of the Law on Transparency and Access to Public Information and Good Governance. Until July this year, the portal has had more than 3,700,000 visits and requests for access to information have risen to 2,677, of which 93.3% have been resolved. The information available for active advertising has grown by 60% in just ten months, from half a million records to 800,000 of those currently available, and in particular the categories of contracts and grants, which provide for a greater number of information, have been further detailed. We are now proposing new ways of speeding up and facilitating citizens' requests for information, and this will be reflected in the rules of the Transparency Act, which we hope will be forwarded to the Council of State in the near future. We therefore gather the experience of the launch of the portal, which has been a very important effort on the part of all public employees and which is an example of management and capacity of our Administration, which has come to stay. Thirdly, I would like to explain to you the budgetary management of the agencies attached to the department. I am sorry not to follow an argumental thread, but, as you know, the Ministry of the Presidency has agencies that do not have much to do with each other, except for the good management they are trying to give citizens. [[Several Members: Very well!]] I'm gonna start with the National Intelligence Center. The honourable Member laughs. Among the National Intelligence Centre, the Centre for Sociological Research, National Heritage and the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies is not that there are many similarities, except for the effort they make to manage themselves well, but that is what belongs to a ministry like mine. I am going to focus on the National Intelligence Centre, which has also on numerous occasions aroused interest in its resources and resources by the spokespersons who are in the Commission for the control of reserved expenditure. I would like to point out that in 2016 the transfers you will receive from the ministry will amount to 240 million euros, 7.7% more than in 2015. This was a commitment made by all spokespersons in the Committee on Reserved Expenditures, the need to increase the material resources available to the National Intelligence Centre and which meet these budgets. We are contributing more than EUR 17 million more to its operation at a time when our security needs an essential reinforcement in the face of truly unavoidable global challenges. We are therefore trying to improve their capacity and funding. I cannot go into detail because it is not the task of this House, but I am at your disposal in the relevant Commission to detail what this increase in its budget allocation corresponds to. The mission of the National Intelligence Centre is to provide the State, rather than the Government, with the elements of judgement necessary to support its strategic decisions. The world and the challenges presented by the future demand from the centre new ways of making intelligence and greater specialization, while posing the inescapable need to increase its resources and enhance its capabilities to deal with the risks that affect the security and interests of the Spaniards as effectively as possible. The reality has demonstrated in the most dramatic ways the increase in the level of danger achieved by some of the global threats to our security. I am referring to issues such as international terrorism, especially jihadist terrorism, along with cyberterrorism and cybersecurity or new forms of intelligence with a markedly economic component. They will agree with me that any democratic country cannot stand behind and must have the best tools to meet these challenges. That is why we must also strengthen the capabilities of the National Intelligence Centre. This is also why, in collaboration with the Centre, we have adopted a new programme of action, a new strategic concept, a programming that includes tasks and resources, i.e. both priority areas and material, human and precise means to define a modern and competitive service. For this reason, part of the budget increase of €7 million will be directly linked to the increase in human resources, an increase that has also begun to materialize by authorizing the National Intelligence Centre to receive 125 people in what constitutes the first phase of a global medium-term endowment project foreseen in the new strategic concept of the centre. They are essential to provide the necessary coverage to the areas of activity that I have told you and that need to be enhanced. In this way, the availability of greater economic, technological, material and human means, together with the experience and effectiveness that the CNI has accredited, constitute the fundamental pieces on which to base an intelligence service at the service of a democracy and better prepared to respond to the present and future challenges, a National Intelligence Centre that contributes more and more effectively to the knowledge of those scenarios in which intelligence activity represents an added value for the development of State action. They will agree with me that this security and the protection of freedom are a matter of State, since the State, as I said at the beginning, is served by the National Intelligence Centre. The free societies that we respect and protect fundamental rights need to be safe societies because, ultimately, freedom and security are the fundamental principles of democracy and together we have a duty to preserve them. For our part, we have done so, trying to emphasize this endowment as one of the main tasks of the ministry. Transfers from other agencies attached to the Ministry of the Presidency, the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies, the Centre for Sociological Research, National Heritage and the State Agency Official State Gazette, however, have been reduced, but this has not meant a linear decrease in their budgets. In line with the reform of public administrations, what we have done in this legislature is to try to improve the management of their resources. For example, various services and self-financing capacities have been integrated into centralized recruitment, because they provide good services that citizens recognize. For example, the self-financing of National Heritage has doubled, from 18% in 2011 to 34% in 2015. In the CIS, the Centre for Sociological Research has grown in similar terms, from 18.6% to 35.2%, and in the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies it has grown seven points. All this has allowed us to reduce the amount of transfers that are provided from public revenues without diminishing the activities or benefits of each agency. In fact, some of them have launched ambitious projects. I begin with the only state agency attached to the ministry, which is the State Official Gazette. The self-financing capacity of the State Official Gazette is full and also generates a surplus that is entered in the public treasury, more than 31 million euros. We can therefore say that the State Official Gazette has been and continues to be well managed. Its budget for the next financial year maintains the previous one and amounts to 62 million euros. Moreover, it must be borne in mind that it has changed its tasks in recent times. The BOE has become a reference printing company for the editing and printing of both the editorial programme of the General Administration of the State and other works of its departments, which has increased its turnover by 50% and its customers by 20%. This has enabled him to develop new projects at the service of the citizen, for example, to give social utility. The BOE database already offers more than 5,000 consolidated standards that are updated within less than one day. I recommend it in the management of consolidated legislation when preparing its appearances, the State Official Gazette offers it immediately and free of charge. The A la carte State Official Gazette project already has more than 146,000 subscribers. I also invite you to use it, simply by joining that page you will have the notifications that interest you. The new collection of electronic codes has ninety titles and the number of downloads exceeds 3 million - good management - but now we have two major challenges at the service of citizens: first, the single edict table of public administrations. Until 31 July, 20,000 users have been discharged and 70,000 notifications have been published. On 1 November, the notary and registrar groups are scheduled to be incorporated into the use of the board. What is it, ladies and gentlemen? To avoid the pilgrimage of citizens of edictal board in edictal board when they have to know some administrative decision that affects them. The second important measure is also the electronic auction portal. All State-level auctions - judicial, administrative and notarial - will be combined at one point. They will be carried out electronically, which will allow for the replacement of face-to-face auctions, with the resulting savings, the improvement of accessibility and, of course, of neutrality. In just one month, on October 15, 2015, it will be operational for notarial auctions. Finally, we have launched a legal portal and a portal of historical law. The State Official Gazette therefore continues to make progress as a quality public service. National Heritage. It has also been able to increase its income, especially through collaborations for the holding of workshop schools, which are also a mechanism for job creation, and by improving ticket collection. Only in the first six months of this year have the revenues from visits of the real sites increased by 15% over the same period of 2014. The budget for 2016 amounts to more than 126 million euros, which represents a slight increase, which will be destined primarily for the necessary endowments for the launch of the Museum of the Royal Collections. The works of the museum, which have involved a total investment of 140 million euros, will most likely end in November of this year, and from there will have to start the works of museumography, equipment and restoration of works of art. The Centre for Sociological Research has also raised its expenditure to EUR 6.36 million for its self-financing. However, there is an increase in the number of goods and services in Chapter 2, from which surveys are financed. The number of studies grows, because I remind you - this I imagine will interest you more - that in 2016 the center has to complement two electoral studies, Galicia and Basque Country, in addition to the corresponding surveys by the National Statistical Plan and those that are part of their international projects. In addition, the dissemination of its results has improved through the ARCE project, which allows for the new Public Sector Information Re-Use Act adopted this year. Finally, the Centre for Political and Constitutional Studies has reduced its budget, but maintains its study and training activity, in particular its university master's degree in Constitutional Law. In short, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets reflect a serious and rigorous management of resources, with a firm and clear determination to promote new projects to provide better services or, more importantly, to ensure our rights. They are accounts adapted to recovery, prepared for reality, to offer and enhance those services that the ministry provides security to our country and that can help generate confidence and stability. This is what these budgets mean, those of the ministry I have just presented to you, those of its various sections, but also those of the whole of a project that constitutes an integral programme in which there is no point in going back. We must continue to move forward as a prosperous society, because it has not finished, and I believe that these budgets are a decisive step that must guide us in this recovery. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. In defence of amendments, first of all, by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u4	Thank you, President. It is for me, on behalf of my group, to present the amendments to this whole section, which, as the Vice-President is sure to know, has much to do with the substance of the matter, with the substance of the policy and with the reforms that Spain needs in order to deal with the problems that our society has. It may be said to me - sometimes it has occurred - that the issues that our parliamentary group has tabled in amendments to this debate are not specific to a budget debate, but allow me to say that, since the dynamics are that the Group of the European People's Party does not accept any of the amendments tabled by the opposition, this intervention serves to reflect on the substance of the problems facing our society. Today is the day after the failure of negotiations at European level regarding the refugee crisis. Let us say that all the ministers who sat yesterday on behalf of their Governments had the best of will to deal with the crisis. What failed? The European structure has failed. Europe is not a state today, it has no capacity to deal with the problems of the European Community with supranational decisions. The nationalism of the Member States prevents agreements that require a European response from being reached. It is the structure of the country that, despite - let us put it - the very good will of all those present, made impossible a political agreement that was necessary to respond to a political crisis as well. Let's apply that at the national level. That is what my group wants to put forward in these brief minutes of reflection. Yes, we can amend the budgets, we have done so to the sections in particular and with partial amendments. We believe, for example, that not so many advisers can be retained while the staff rate is not being replenished. We believe that there can be no continuation of a departure to maintain the former presidents' lifetime pensions and that they are compatible with other wages at the same time. Yes, they are partial amendments which will, as always, be rejected by you. But the main question is not that, because although the partial amendments were admitted to us, Spain has a problem of structure, of capacity to respond to the real problems of the country, which have to do with the growing problems of inequality in Spain, which are not solved if the structural amendments are not faced, that is, if the Constitution itself is not reformed and the privileges established in some Spanish territories are not liquidated, if the fiscal privileges, for example, of some of the autonomous communities, the so-called special ones, which are not of common regime, are not reformed. The problems of inequality caused by communities that do not have a common regime but a special regime are not solved by extending this privileged regime to other communities in Spain, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs apparently wants in the case of Catalonia. That's not how the problems are solved. Madam Vice-President, you know - that is why I say that it is not a case of goodwill, of good or bad faith when making budgets - that, according to official data, in Spain, the non-financial resources per inhabitant in the autonomous communities of common system are on average 2,763 euros, while the average in the communities of foral regime is 4,829 euros per inhabitant. You will say: What does that have to do with budgets? It is that the budgets have to serve to solve the problems of Spain, and one of the main problems of Spain is inequality; that is one of the fundamental objectives of any government and therefore of the most important economic law of the year, which are the budgets. If the problems of inequality are not solved, the problems of justice are not solved, the problems of the structure of the State are not solved and, therefore, it is a useless law, beyond that it is a bad law by its structure, beyond that it is a bad law by how you have done it and beyond that it is a law that has no more objective - from our humble point of view - than electoral. If we do not solve the fundamental problems of an untenable and unsustainable State - politically untenable and economically unsustainable - we will be unable to solve the fundamental problems that our country has which, as I say, have primarily to do with equality. I repeat the official figure: the average of the non-financial resources per inhabitant in the autonomous communities of common system is 2,700 euros and the average in the communities of external regime is 4,800 euros. This is not solved with a different budget; it is solved by addressing the problem of substance and depth, addressing the structure of the State and ending the privileges established by law. That requires changing the system. As in Europe, the problems arising from the Commission's lack of structure and political capacity are not solved by meetings of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. In Spain, they are not solved by a budget which, at best - and not in the case of the case - is nothing more than a sluggish one. Our parliamentary group once again takes advantage of this budgetary procedure in order to get to the bottom of the matter, in what Spain needs: not only partial amendments, but in-depth structural reforms. It needs a reform of the Constitution to ensure that the union of Spain recognized in it is a necessary condition and, therefore, something must be done to promote it and to guarantee a fundamental right such as the right to equality; that it abolishes the fiscal privileges of the Basque Country and of Navarre precisely so that there are resources for all Spanish citizens to live in the part of Spain in which they live, to have guaranteed on an equal basis the provision of the fundamental services and those rights that have been considered essential; and also that, once and for all, it structures a system of public function that has to do with modern Spain of the twenty-first century and we do not continue with the situation that we have been enduring so far. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, our parliamentary group enters the budget debate, understanding that it is the most important law of every year, to raise the reforms that Spain and the Spanish need; not mere patches or caps, but to go into depth with the fundamental problems that Spain has. This is called reforming the structure of the State so that Spain is more than the sum of seventeen autonomous communities and two autonomous cities and that the Government is more than the coordinator of the autonomous communities and the autonomous cities.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u5	Mrs. Díez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u6	Spain is becoming more and more like what Europe is, a coordinator of governments that make decisions that are not supra-Community - in the sense of autonomous community - but are based on agreements between nationalists from different places in Spain. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d'Unió, Mr Xuclà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Vice-President, you have made a presentation of about twenty-seven minutes, of which you have devoted seven or eight minutes to making an overall presentation of the General Budgets of the State with a very political role, with a role as Vice-President of the Government, as if we were in a debate of the entire General Budgets of the State. Since you have made a comprehensive approach, we are going to ask you in part - I will also go into the background of some issues - our total discrepancies with the way this Government has managed some very important matters. You are a distinguished lawyer, a person with legal capacity, and in the fund of management you have seen abuses and things never seen in the proper management of processing and respect for Parliament. This is the legislature in which you will present to the plenary of the House tomorrow the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court in one reading. We'll have a chance to discuss it tomorrow. This is the legislature in which they have promoted an express reform of the Criminal Code in a time and form never seen in the past. This is the legislature in which they have promoted a reform of the Military Penal Code by hardening the disciplinary regime of the Civil Guard through an amendment by the back door in the Senate, breaking what was agreed in Congress. This is the legislature in which the price of light - one of the most expensive in Europe - has been increased by opaque mechanisms, far from the transparency that you show. And this is the legislature in which this Government, with a very prominent leadership from the Vice-President, has processed a National Security Act that says it is not organic, that it has the function of coordinating emergency situations, but it is evident, from our point of view and this debate we have already had, that it has a very deep dimension of potential recovery of competencies; state of emergency perhaps through an ordinary law. You are going to quote me from the opinion of the Council of State and I will remind you of the unanimous consensus - except your group - disputing about the National Security Act. Administrative simplification. You are very proud of CORA. For us, CORA means a consistent failure in its form and style of simplification of administrations. A moment ago you told us about the unification of telegraphic cabinets of ministries. Perhaps this is a relevant fact and I will congratulate you on it, but in the time of hyperconnectivity and of the WhatsApp facing only in this legislature the unification of the telegraphic cabinets - he said, he said; great service, by the way - seems quite perilous to us. Ladies and gentlemen, you have simplified the powers of the autonomous communities. The list would be long, give for more than three minutes but I'll refer to a case. After thirty years of a model of success in the adoption system by the Autonomous Communities, you have decided that adoption is a matter that cannot be governed, directed and managed by the Autonomous Communities. You will say these days in an election campaign, and outside of it also from this rostrum, that you pay the bills of the pharmacies that the autonomous communities cannot pay, but you, at the bottom of the matter, have not done what you have not done is to face the reform of the Act on the financing of the autonomous communities that corresponded in this legislature. You will proudly display the Transparency Act and we will tell you that the Catalan Transparency Act has already entered into force and consists of mechanisms that are still pending in the Spanish Transparency Act. A few weeks ago, just after the summer, this parliamentary group put forward a proposal for a law on the regulation of interest groups and we ended the legislature without the regulation of interest groups being dealt with in this Parliament, as has happened in so many other parliaments and in so many other administrations. We have raised in Catalonia, through our Transparency Law, the positive administrative silence, not the negative one. Some people were panicked that positive administrative silence might be raised, but it is working well and it is meaning savings and, indeed, administrative rationalization. The Catalan law - we have proposed amendments to make it happen in Spanish law - incorporates sanctions and also puts with absolute force the transparency in the matter of contracting through the contracting portal. Ladies and gentlemen, these are some of the differences, but there are others. A body attached to the Department of Presidency is National Heritage. The most liberal soul of my parliamentary group would be in favour of the privatization of National Heritage, because many of the functions and efforts of National Heritage could be done, and better, by the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Madam Vice-President, we disagree on many substantive aspects, but I would like to know, if you could assist me, Madam Vice-President, whether the salary of the Director of the EFE Public Agency is an appropriate salary and consistent with the current times of rationalization and austerity of public expenditure. I would like you, Madam Vice-President, to answer me on this point. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. The Socialist Group, Mr De la Rocha, has the floor to table its amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u10	Mr. President, thank you very much. Madam Vice-President of the Government, you have begun your speech by making an electoral panegyric, a summary of your electoral programme and a certain autoloa of your management. Perhaps in the first part you have intended to replace, supplement or remedy many of Mr Montoro's overall interventions on the budget. But as much as you do panegyrics, Spanish citizens do not forget their policies of cuts, their policies of inequality, and will not forget them especially when the December elections arrive. I was surprised by some of the things you said about this subject, for example, when you spoke of unemployment, obvious that EUR 10 billion has been cut for the unemployed. It is a budget against the unemployed, against the people who are unemployed: 5 billion last year and 5 billion this year. He talked about active employment policies when we are still at EUR 3 billion of the money that the Socialist Government spent on active employment policies in 2011. Let's go to section 25, Ministry of the Presidency, which you run. A section of small quantitative importance, which has rather an ideological sign in some of its policies and a horizontal character. In the debate in the Commission, both my colleague Nacho Sánchez Amor and I raised some issues in relation to the Transparency Act and the CORA. I do not want to insist on this, but I do want to refer to two aspects that you have just mentioned. You are satisfied that you have suppressed 2,194 public entities. Today, it has hidden another aspect from which they are also ugnant, which has resulted in savings of EUR 14 billion for public employment measures. This means, simply, that they have dismissed or not renewed interim contracts, extinguished - according to their own data - of about 400,000 public employees, which has resulted - I do not know if intentionally - in a manifest deterioration of public services and in a process of privatization of the care and service activity in our country. I am also surprised that you are talking about the impetus for public administration reform through the two laws reforming the administrative procedure and the legal regime of the public sector. Probably in the history of the Council of State there has never been a report as hard against these two bills as the one issued this time by the Council of State. There has never been so much unanimity in the professors and professors of university of public law in the criticism of these two bills, as for you to take advantage of them. I would like to speak about that aspect of the budget that you are directing that has the greatest ideological burden, which is that of historical memory, or rather the absence of any euro for the implementation and development of the Historical Memory Act; a law that was passed in 2007, promoted by the Socialist Government. The aim was to recover the memory of the victims of Francoism thirty years after the adoption of the Constitution. His recognition and dignity was and is a moral duty in political life and a sign of the strength of democracy. History cannot be built on the forgetfulness of the victims. We know that there are tens of thousands - 150,000 are estimated - of the disappeared who are in mass graves and in the cunetas simply to defend legality. They belonged to many organizations and, I must also say, to the Socialist Party and the UGT. His relatives do not know his whereabouts and his remains cannot be exhumed. Under the Historical Memory Act, the Ministry of Justice promoted the creation of a grave map; 2,382 graves were located, mass graves, referring to some 45,000 victims. Some 300 have been opened, rescuing some 6,500 bodies, but many tens of thousands of victims remain, bodies untraceable, unidentified, without a decent burial on the part of their relatives. The task is not that it is unfinished, it is interrupted because you have denied that there is a budget for these purposes. From 2007 to 2011, the Socialist Government allocated 26 million for the implementation of the Historical Memory Act. You, in 2012, allocated 2.5 million and from then on, zero. The reasons you have always argued are that there was no budget; cuts. They have claimed it; it is in the 'Diary of Sessions'. In 2013, 2014 or 2015 they literally said: At the moment when there is more budget availability, the appropriate aid will be called back. The year 2016 has arrived and you yourself have just said that the recovery has already arrived. All the spokesmen of the Government and the People's Group, following the instructions you have given them, have been saying: We are already in times of recovery. For everyone, less for historical memory; for the victims of Francoism there is still no euro. Therefore, the reasons are not economic, they are purely ideological, their ideological commitments to the past, moreover surprising; for the victims of Francoism, nothing at all. [[Applauds]] In the Commission, the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group argued two reasons; one referred to public money already spent on exhumations, 26 million, at the time of socialist governments, except 2.5 in 2012; and another, that this has passed to the Ministry of Justice. We do not know where, because they are departures that have always been in the Ministry of the Presidency, and because in the Ministry of Justice, when one investigates, there is nothing at all. Even you have suppressed the Office of Victims of Civil War and Dictatorship. The Ministry of Justice has a commission to assist victims of violent crimes and gender-based violence, but not victims of Francoism. We join - it would be missing more - in supporting and redressing the victims of terrorism and gender-based violence, but also those of Francoism. The United Nations Human Rights Council adopted in September 2014, as you well know, Madam Vice-President, the report of the special editor for the promotion of truth, justice and reparation, who valued the Historical Memory Act and who called on the Government of Spain for public policies in favour of public memory and budgetary resources for this purpose. It's been a year and a half and what's the consequence? What's the answer? Disdain to the United Nations, to its Human Rights Council and, more importantly, to the victims. My group has tabled four amendments to this budget section.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u11	Lord of the Rock, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u12	I'm done, Mr. President. They are amendments designed to provide budgetary allocations for exhumations through municipalities and associations, also aimed at the recovery of the Office of Victims of Francoism and the Dictatorship and, lastly, a heading aimed at the redefinition and reorientation of the Valley of the Falles so that it ceases to be a monument to the service of the coup-seekers and can be a monument to the service of peace and reconciliation. We hope that the People's Parliamentary Group will support these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Rocha. Position-fixing turn. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez de la Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr De la Rocha said that the Vice-President's presentation had a certain panegyric look. That is where it hurts, Mr De la Rocha, and we have presented the general budgets for responsibility. We do not run away from the General Budgets of the State; we present them. We are not going to do what you did, which was to leave this country at the worst time of the crisis, the worst crisis since 1929, without General State Budgets. Secondly, I want to tell you that these budgets are confirmation of the success of all the previous ones. I would like to remind you that the economic context in which these budgets are presented is very different, thanks to the action of the People's Party Government. I will give little data, but some of them are rigorously put to the House. GDP has grown 5.4 points; the deficit has reduced 6.4 points; exports have increased as never before in Spain's recent history; about one million jobs have been created; Spain is growing to 3.3%, more than Italy, more than Germany, more than France, more than the United Kingdom, more than the United States and of course more than the Community average. Thanks to these General State Budgets, employment will grow again to 3%; unemployment will fall by around 19 or 20% and we will create 500,000 more jobs. With these General State Budgets, social spending increases by 3.8% more. By the way, 35 billion euros more in social spending than the last of the State General Budgets that you approved in 2011. [[Applauds]] It's not a panegyric presentation, it's about making a story of the facts. The Vice-President of the Government has made a brief presentation of section 25, so I will simply give a fact that you have never had the generosity to value. These General State Budgets in section 25 represent a savings of 22 million euros in relation to the 2012 budgets. It has gone from a budget of EUR 150.71 million to a budget of 14.58 %. With regard to the amendments tabled to this section 25 by the various parliamentary groups, I will start with Union Progreso and Democracy. Mrs Díez complained that we did not accept the amendments they tabled. How are we going to accept the amendments if they are the same as every year? It seems that we are on the day of the marmot because every year we come up here to explain why these two amendments are not accepted. With regard to the heading for former government presidents, ladies and gentlemen of UPyD - and I am sure you have not heard the reply - the allocation of former government presidents is for office expenses, they are not indemnity pensions and are therefore not subject to the incompatibility regime; the incompatibility regime seems to be of no interest to them when it concerns certain members of that training. As for the number of advisers to the cabinet of the President of the Government, it is false that the number of advisers has increased. What is happening - they have already been explained to them in plenary and in the Commission this year and last year - is that there has been a mere adjustment of the allocation to reflect the reality of expenditure. Staff or work is reflected in article 12 and contingent personnel in article 11, since, to date, what has been done was a kind of budget fraud, so that in appropriations for staff, subsequently, through budgetary change, they would be transferred to contingent personnel. What is done is to re-adjust it, to lower those amounts in article 12, to move them to article 11, and that the budget reflects the reality of the staff of the cabinet of the President of the Government. Therefore, there is no increase in contingent personnel, what there is is an effort to reflect reality. As for the Convergència i d ́Unió exhibition, let me tell you with all affection, Mr Xuclà, that it is striking that you accuse the government of breaking the pacts, precisely you who, in this legislature, have decided to break Catalan society; you who, in this legislature, have decided to break with Spain; you who, in this legislature, have decided to break your party; you who, in this legislature, have decided to break with Europe; you who, in this legislature, have decided to break with reality and with political rationality. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] By the way, you have referred to the express reform of the Penal Code, which lasted a year and a half. As far as social expenditure is concerned, I want to say that, as far as social expenditure is concerned, the Generalitat leaves much to be desired. Not only do you owe 238 million euros to the pharmacies of Catalonia, to which you are undergoing a process of difficult continuity, but also Catalan health has fallen in the Spanish national ranking, as being in the number five position has become in the number fifteen position, while you spent 500 million euros on what you call the process. I think we should be a little consistent in this area and go up to talk about the State's general budgets and not about other issues that go beyond the content of the debate that brings us here today. With regard to the presentation by the Socialist Group's spokesman on this subject, I would like to say that the Spanish people will not forget. It has focused above all on the issue of historical memory. I told him the other day with all respect and I'm going to repeat it again, we believe in memory, of course we believe in memory, we believe that there should not be a single Spanish in the gutter - of whatever side -, nor a single Spanish in the gutter, and that there should not be a single recognition to be made. We believe in memory but we also believe in understanding and will. Do you remember, of St. Augustine: memory, understanding and will? [[Rumors]] We believe in understanding and think that history should not be an object of ideological manipulation and should not be subjected to shadows of amnesia. We have the will that, for the understanding between the Spaniards, civil war will never again be made an element of confrontation. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] We are concerned about some historical memory deficit and some amnesia, and I will tell you why.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u15	Mr. Gomez de la Serna, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u16	It's over, Mr. President. How is it possible that you are opening the most important cities in Spain to a party with clear anti-Semitic ribets? How is that possible? No, no, it's just that memory affects everyone and everywhere. [[Applauds]] How is it possible that the Spokesperson of the City Council of Madrid - to which you support - became famous at the cry of 'You will burn as in 36' and you support it there? How is it possible that you at Badalona City Hall supported the CUP team, which in January was raising funds for ETA prisoners? How is that possible? [[Mrs Serrano Argüello: How is that possible?]] It's just that memory has to be integral, it has to be coherent and it can't have amnesia shadows. Therefore, I lack more neutrality in the interpretation of memory. I will tell you - the other day I told you in the Commission - that you suffer from something called voluntary blindness and which in legal terms is called deliberate ignorance. This Government - like its own - has devoted budget allocations within the scope of the issue of historical memory. In twenty-two years, you've told us...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u17	Mr. Gomez of the Serna, you have to end inexorably.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u18	He's told us they've spent $22 million. We in three have dedicated 2, which proportionally gives a similar situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez de la Serna. Discussion of Sections 19, Employment and Social Security, and 60, Social Security. For the presentation of the sections, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House to present to you the budgets of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security for next year 2016. As you know very well, these are the accounts in sections 19 and 60 of these General State Budgets. We are in a situation today in our country, ending the year 2015, of clear economic recovery, which has been possible thanks to the great effort that we have made all Spanish society, all of them. Together, the Spaniards have demonstrated to those who did not trust us that we are able to do great things when we work together, with commitment and also with determination. We know that this task has not been completed, quite the contrary. It was necessary to persevere to consolidate those results in the form of opportunities for all Spaniards. This is why these budgets respond to this need to offer certainty, security and predictability to economic operators in the face of the forthcoming dissolution of the Sections 19, Employment and Social Security, and 60, Social Security Courts General. Because this stage has taught us something very clear: that stability and trust are essential elements to sustain economic recovery but above all to create employment. Stability, ladies and gentlemen, creates employment. That is why I come to present to you the budgets that are clearly adapted to the reality that our country is experiencing today. Budgets that allow us at the same time to devote more economic resources to social spending and also to contribute responsibly to that economic recovery so that it reaches every day to every family, every Spanish through employment. I insist that much remains to be done and I say that I am conscious - as you also know very well - of knowing where we came from, of what represented the beginning of this legislature for the Spaniards and what we have achieved together. They know very well - although some members of this House do not want to remember it, but it is good to take stock at the end of the legislature - that at the beginning of this legislature our economy was in deep recession, on the verge of bankruptcy, with 3.5 million people who had lost their jobs. Today the reality is very different - I insist, although we still have a way to go -, today thanks to the efforts of Spanish society we are passing from that recession, abandoning the crisis and strengthening economic growth and recovery. Spain - as the Vice-President of the Government said earlier - is leading the economic growth of the European Union and our economy is growing almost three times the euro area average. The macroeconomic forecasts of the budget for next year estimate that growth will remain above 3% and therefore we are facing strong growth, but the most important thing is that we are facing intensive and inclusive economic growth in terms of employment. Intensive, ladies and gentlemen, because economic growth is fully translated into job creation. Spain, as you know very well, began to create new jobs, for the first time in a recovery, with very moderate growth rates, at around 1%; historically we needed to grow above 2.5% or 3% to create net employment. Well, today we are faced with this new recovery, intense, of course, in job creation, but above all with employment growth from very moderate economic growth. The second novelty, as I said, is that all growth translates into job creation. We are growing at 3.1% right now and we are creating jobs and filiation is growing above 3.2%. Therefore, creation and intensive recovery of employment. Moreover - and I would like to stress this especially because it is a sign of hope for many Spaniards - it is a growing number of jobs every day of increasing quality. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time Spain is emerging from a crisis with increases in indefinite recruitment. This is a great novelty also of recovery. Six consecutive quarters, year and a half, had to pass from the crisis of the 1990s to start creating stable employment. In this exit from the crisis we are creating stable employment from the very beginning. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of quality jobs. For what we have been doing for the year, indefinite recruitment is growing at a rate of 14%. In addition, 92% of the jobs created are full-time. I say this because many people do demagoguery by saying that the job is distributed here and it is not true, ladies and gentlemen, it is not true. [[Applauds]] I tell you more, from the first quarter of 2014 to the first quarter of 2015, according to Eurostat data, the European Statistical Agency, Spain was the second euro area Member State that created more indefinite employment after Germany. Moreover, with regard to the reverse of stable recruitment, which, as you know very well, is temporary, the weight of temporary jobs on total employment created was 35%, well below the EU average, 37%, and the euro area, 43%. In countries that are in similar circumstances to ours, such as Italy, the increase in temporality in the same period rose to 79%. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is moving forward with quality employment and with a very intensive and inclusive recovery in employment. It is also inclusive because employment is growing in all sectors, in all autonomous communities, in all groups and in all age groups; employment for all. Another data from Eurostat, ladies and gentlemen, which I think is relevant is that Spain is the third country in the euro area with the highest youth employment creation after Germany and the Netherlands. That is the reality of the moment of recovery that Spain is experiencing. I conclude with another Eurostat data to know the situation our country is experiencing today in terms of employment: Spain is the country of the European Union and the euro area where discouragement has been reduced the most, i.e. the Spaniards trust that we are on a path of recovery and that employment is going to reach those who have not yet found that opportunity quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to express with humility that we have started this recovery without leaving anyone behind, nor those who have not yet been able to find employment, nor those who need Spanish solidarity today more than ever in an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. This is the recovery that these General State Budgets have the ambition to consolidate. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we need to support this recovery and we need that great national objective, as the President of the Government said in this House, to achieve those 20 million occupied, which is the definitive recovery, that employment and opportunities reach every Spanish in every part of our territory. We are faced with budgets that combine social commitment and effective public management; social commitment because they devote 53 out of every 100 euros to financing social expenditure; of those 53 euros, the Ministry of Employment and Social Security manages almost 46, 87% of total social expenditure. But we are able to have more social commitment also with less burden for citizens. In this we are working led by the Vice-President of the Government, in that relief of burdens and doubles of the Administration, in what we call the CORA project, which has, for example, allowed savings for citizens and businesses in this reduction of burdens of 1,221 million euros, 52% of the whole of the General Administration of the State, in terms of, I repeat, relief of direct administrative burdens and doubles. Therefore, budgets with employment, with social commitment and also with less burden for citizens. Thus, effectiveness and social commitment have guided the action of this section 19 of the budgets and which I am going to defend fundamentally on two fronts: the first, the commitment to active, modern and effective policies. The budget for next year 2016 increases the allocation in active policies by 10%, to 5,242 million euros, as well as that of the protection and activation in service of the most vulnerable people, for whose commitment we will dedicate 26,375 million euros next year. With regard to active policies, I would like to recall that we have been working for several years on a new model of activation strategy for employment 2014-2016 that makes it possible to make efficient use of resources, linking funds to ongoing evaluation and to the achievement of objectives; we do so with agreement and in collaboration with the autonomous communities. This budget does include a novelty that has not been included in previous years, which is the new long-term unemployed guidance programme between the ages of 30 and 55, a programme that we are detailing with the social partners and with the autonomous communities, which will allow a real diagnosis of the employability of this group, as well as a more personalized attention to those unemployed between the ages of 30 and 55, so that their return to the labour market is as quickly as possible. The overall funding for this programme is EUR 500 million, will be produced in two years and the estimated real beneficiaries that can pass through this programme is 1.264,000 people. With this we want to give more opportunities to a group that, for example, did not benefit from the youth guarantee, which ends at the age of 30, and neither does it benefit from the protection policies for more than 55 with which our social protection system already has. We must therefore continue to work on this improvement of active policies in order to make them more effective and to respond quickly to the orientation and return to the labour market of our workers, today temporarily in unemployment. In parallel we have also made progress in major reforms such as the new vocational training system for employment, which culminates in an itinerary that began in 2012 with the reform and implementation in our country of dual vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen, more training is more opportunities for people and more competitiveness for businesses, and with that we will achieve that medium-term goal in our country, which is to compete in talent and not in low wages as the Spanish society wants and wants. I am grateful in this parliamentary appearance for the majority support that the reform of vocational training for employment has had from all parliamentary groups. This also reinforces the potential of a new mechanism to advance the competitiveness, talent and employability of workers. Of course, we will continue to support the incentives for stable recruitment that so good results in terms of quality employment are giving every day in Spain and we will remain committed to leaving no one behind. That is why this 2016 budget envisages the maintenance of the programme until the unemployment rate does not fall by 20%, the special activation programme that we design with the social partners for those who are long-term unemployed without income and with family responsibilities, and also the commitment to those who need to have these benefits and unemployment benefits temporarily as a bridge back to the labour market, which is their great opportunity to normalise their vital situation. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that in unemployment benefits and allowances we are faced with an extended credit and will be available for need at all times, as has historically been this item in the General State Budgets. It lowers this budget by 8.5% in line with what lowers the unemployment rate today in our country. I am talking about the planned final budget for this year compared to the amount planned for 2015. It is therefore necessary to have confidence and tranquillity because anyone in Spain who needs an unemployment benefit or benefit will be satisfied with their request. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to everyone's efforts, as I said, Spain is already going through this recovery on the path of growth and employment. He also said that he does so by maintaining the pillars of the welfare society from the beginning of this legislature and also by fulfilling responsibly and in solidarity with our national and international obligations. In particular, I would also like to mention this morning that Spain has been fulfilling its obligation to provide asylum and shelter to those in need of international protection for years. Over the past three years, the number of applications for international protection has doubled and even increased by five in 2015 because Spain is responding in solidarity to the humanitarian challenges it faces yesterday, today and will always do so. As far as we are concerned in 2015, I can inform this House that we have already treated almost 7,000 refugees thanks to our system of reception places, of which 4,000 are from Syria, and Spain has been able to respond with normality and responsibility. Therefore, a model response to a humanitarian crisis that is currently going on throughout the European Union. [[Applauds]] That is why we can be calm, because Spain is going to give that response to the humanitarian crisis that is being experienced with institutional normality. Spanish society has also shown a clear display of generosity and commitment and its institutions, I insist, all the institutions - public administrations, non-governmental organisations and the social partners - will live up to the circumstances. But, ladies and gentlemen, in this we must also leave the colours and political affiliations and focus on what is important. On this issue we do not start from scratch, but from the commitment, solidarity and responsibility of a country that knows how to meet the challenges of the present and the future. Spain has played a very active role in recent years in defining the common migration policy and, in particular, in drawing up the European Agenda for Migration. We have therefore worked intensively, not only in the last few weeks, ladies and gentlemen, when the tragedy of the refugees has seen it on the front pages of all the media, but we have been working with all the administrations and also with all the social institutions involved for many months. That is why we have made an effort to strengthen the economic resources and to expand that host and integration network that our country has. Already in the current 2015 budget, more than EUR 27 million has been allocated to grants to non-governmental organizations for the reception and integration of beneficiaries, almost doubling the previous year's budget. With regard to this year, 2016, a budget of EUR 24 million is included for the international protection system, which represents a significant increase of more than one hundred per cent over the initial budget of the previous year, and a new application is created in these budgets - I would like to stress this - which did not previously exist for the resizing of the reception and integration system of beneficiaries of international protection, which was initially provided, at the beginning of the budgetary procedure, with EUR 28.9 million, and which, following the amendment agreed and negotiated by all the parliamentary groups - I thank the People's Parliamentary Group for its efforts - this heading will reach EUR 228.9 million. Therefore, commitment, resources and solidarity. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is ready to welcome and integrate those people who are coming to Europe, who are experiencing a humanitarian crisis, and we, as always, will respond with solidarity, responsibility and shared commitment. It is our conviction, but it is also the majority desire of all Spanish society. As I said at first, we are doing it together in the past and in the present. That is why the Government did not want to improvise and set in motion this commission of eight ministries, coordinated by the Vice-President of the Government - to which I am grateful for this immediate response - although we have already been working at the technical level on this resizing of the needs for reception and integration in our country. We are working on a constant, permanent, committed and collaborative basis with non-governmental organizations, which are the professionals who technically best respond to these needs for international protection. We are working at the political and technical level with the autonomous communities and with the municipalities, because we want to channel and order all this tide of solidarity in the form of new resources available to the entire system of international protection in Spain. We are working on a permanent commission at the technical level at the General Secretariat of Immigration and Emigration together with the directors-general of the autonomous communities and with a representative of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and where non-governmental organizations are also going to make such integration and reception with us. In the coming days we will call the social partners, because Spain has to respond to the urgency, but it also has to respond to the important. The urgent thing is that as soon as these people have a perfect reception among us, but the important thing is that they come with us to live, to live and to work, and that real integration will occur when they have a job opportunity as one more Spaniard and have here a future of life in freedom. Therefore, we are doing it working with everyone and counting on everyone. That is the success of the integration and reception of all the citizens who are suffering from this humanitarian crisis today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning this legislature by working with the Spaniards to face great challenges - the challenge of recovery, the challenge of employment - and we are approaching the end of the legislature with this other great challenge, to respond to this serious humanitarian crisis. Well, we will welcome the number of people who correspond to us with our commitment to solidarity and responsibility forever. We will do so, I insist, with the experience of that success and that model action that our country has always believed, with more than two decades of experience, with the seriousness that the situation requires, counting on everyone in Spain and being very attentive to the decisions and procedures that are being implemented in the European Union. I have to make a brief reference, before I finish, to the budget of section 60, Social Security, the column of our welfare state. This is why social spending is growing in the budget as a whole by 3.8% and why, in a context of fiscal consolidation, pensions are increasing again, as they have done in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. [[Applauds]] Pensions in Spain have risen every year. Social Security continues to be the big bet of these public accounts and of a system that manages more than 4 out of 10 euros that we could devote to the consolidated budget for 2016. We are approaching an increasing level of expenditure on the number and amount of all pensions of 2.82%. It is contributory pensions that account for 10,4 % of gross domestic product alone. So next year's budgets guarantee more social protection, more social security protection, more pensions than ever, higher than ever, and more pensioners than ever. All pensions will increase by 0.25 % in application of the revaluation index, an increase that is compatible with purchasing power gain for pensioners, as already happened in the years 2013 and 2014, in which Spanish pensioners gained more than 2 billion euros of purchasing power. In view of the latest inflation data for 2015, at least 0,4 %, pensioners would surely return for the third consecutive year to gain purchasing power in this year. Therefore, compromise everything with the Spanish pensioners, everything with the Spanish pensioners. The budget continues with the commitment of the Toledo Pact, with the separation of sources of funding. The total contribution of the State to finance the entire non-contributory area of pensions amounts to €13.160 million. I would also like to highlight the 5% increase in maternity, paternity, risk during pregnancy and breastfeeding and care for minors affected by cancer or other serious diseases, as well as the very significant increase of almost 11% in family benefits. Therefore, social commitment to all. [[The lady]] Furthermore - I thank the People's Parliamentary Group for its amendment in this regard - they incorporate these budgets for the first time the concept of demographic contribution of these working women with children who are going to see, from this budget, an additional increase in their pensions of 15% according to the number of children they have had and for having made that effort of social contribution. We act in this way with justice, we face this gender gap problem in terms of pensions and this double discrimination suffered by Spanish women, those who always had lower contributory careers and, worst of all, lower pensions. This amendment, which is incorporated in the budgets for next year, therefore reinforces the social consideration of motherhood and bets on the additional contribution of demography to future pensions. I am grateful to the People's Parliamentary Group for presenting this amendment, which I hope it will support and - of course not - the contributions of all the parliamentary groups throughout the process of these General State Budgets. Finally, I would also like to highlight the economic results of the Plan against Irregular Employment and Social Security Fraud because they are health for the system. Since its entry into force in 2012, it has already contributed more than EUR 12.8 billion to the system and I would like to thank all the professionals - inspectors and technical subcontractors of Social Security - who have made this savings possible for our social protection system. Ladies and gentlemen, today the social security system is on the path of consolidation and stability. I would like to stress that, by greatly appreciating the entire reform agenda and the modernisation that has been done in this legislature, to which your ladies and gentlemen have contributed, we have also resolutely fought against fraud. Nothing strengthens the health of our Social Security model more than the growth of membership. Employment is the security guarantee of our pension model, and today the growth of membership multiplied by more than three the growth of the number of pensions. That is an unequivocal sign of system stability in the medium and long term. Do we have any challenges to face? There are, of course, always, but we are improving the stage for the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing sustainable public pensions that must continue to reassure millions of Spaniards today and also the millions of Spaniards who will join the system tomorrow. I now conclude, Madam President, with the presentation of these budgets, which, as I said, are adapted to the economic situation and in which we have already taken decisions on Spain in 2016. Today, among all of us, we have been able to recover more than one million jobs that were destroyed during the crisis, we have moved from half of Europe's unemployment to creating one in three new jobs in the euro area. According to the OECD, Spain will be the developed country where employment will grow the most in 2016, and that merit is not only of the government but of the entire Spanish society Together we are able to respond to the great challenges of the present and future of Spain and together we must consolidate the recovery in our country in the form of new opportunities. [[of workers, enterprises, SMEs, self-employed persons, families and pensioners]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we must not do is stop the virtuous circle of recovery and employment. We therefore hope that these budgets will have the confidence of the majority of the House and that the Spanish will continue to support political stability, which really creates jobs in our country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u21	Thank you, Minister. In defence of the amendments, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, despite the irresponsibility shown in the way these budgets are dealt with - you must justify it as you should never have presented it on the eve of the dissolution of the Chambers - despite the arrogance with which you have rejected all the amendments in their entirety, being left in an absolute and fearful loneliness that it is to be hoped that they will be invoiced in order to set up a new government in the immediate new legislature; despite their attitude as a supporter and not as an amendment to almost all the partial amendments of the various opposition groups in the Committee on Budgets, I do not give up on a candid and voluntary hope to continue to defend here in plenary the package of partial amendments tabled by Geroa Bai. For this reason, I welcome, among other reasons, the surprising and repetitive words of Mr Montoro in the debate on the amendments to the whole and the successive spokesmen of the Group of the European People's Party yesterday and today in this Chamber, all defending, with a layer and sword from their neoliberal positions, the social character of these budgets and their commitment to the welfare state. Amazing, as I say. Always the corifes of neoliberalism ridiculed under the anathema of Papa State the concept for you lapsed welfare state. Minister Montoro, the highest executive economic representative in the Spanish state of neoliberalism, and all his spokesmen are filled with songs to the state of welfare and the interest in maintaining and strengthening it with these budgets. Well, I welcome those songs to feed that candid and voluntary hope that it will be understood that Geroa Bai's package of amendments is precisely what it seeks, to give a more social character and more directed to the well-being of all citizens to the budgets of the next year. Prove that they are for these purposes. We have tabled a total of thirty-five amendments, not all of which relate exclusively to Navarra, but most of which also affect him, and which I will group together by subject for his brief understanding. With the three amendments relating to the employment and development of R & D+i programmes in SMEs and in the agricultural sector, it is proposed to finance them, in addition to the application of other items included in the draft budgets, to divert military funds for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises in the industrial and agricultural sectors, which are the ones that really create jobs and contribute to economic recovery, with the aim of making them more competitive but giving their products and services an added value, rather than by devaluation of wages and precarious employment, which is usually the recipe to which the coroners of the most fundamentalist neoliberalism have accustomed us. We have tabled seven amendments relating to social assistance in different areas and groups concerned: revaluation of pensions by 1% - not only in that rickets 0.25 % -; early retirements in the civil service without discrimination between the possibilities given by the central administration and those given by the autonomous communities, as so far; dependency; women victims of violence - badly called in my gender opinion -; unemployment benefits, etc. We have two amendments concerning international cooperation in development and humanitarian aid, in the face of - for me repugnantly called - humanitarian crises, humanitarian disasters or humanitarian catastrophes - how to understand such disasters as humanitarian, when, as I know, humanitarian means something favourable to humanity - directed at refugees and immigrants, a field in which I am proud to recall the pioneering attitude of the new Government of Navarre; instead, I must regret the close attitude of the Spanish Government, which has only been able to review its approaches to refugees at the request of Europe after having previously ignored repeated opposition proposals. In addition, we have tabled four amendments on the quality of life on the Navarra shore, which have been damaged by polluting emissions from thermal power plants and military exercises in the Bardenas firing range, which have been recurring problems for a long time and have already caused serious accidents. In this regard, it is important to study the socio-economic development possibilities of the Bardenas, which will enable the congozant villages to seek alternatives to the income provided by the Ministry of Defence in exchange for putting their lives at risk. We also tabled an amendment on historical memory, since we cannot forget our past if we do not want to repeat its tragedies again, nor can we forget that tens of thousands of missing people are still buried in coves, fields and mountains. We have tabled four amendments concerning the promotion of vascuence, which is also our language, that of the Navarra people, with aid to different organizations: Euskalerria Irratia - newly legalized after decades of non-compliance with judicial sentences by the governments of UPN -; non-profit foundations, such as the Royal Basque Language Academy or like Eusko Ikaskuntza; and educational institutions in vascuence, such as the Ikastolas. [[Sociedad de Estudios Vascos]] In addition, we are presenting another final set of amendments relating to local areas, heritage, road, cultural and sports infrastructure. Without time to stop in his concrete defense I repeat, in that candid and voluntary hope, that here the Government and its parliamentary majority have good examples to show if it is truly true his bet, in the defense of the State of welfare and social spending for what they so surprisingly want us to believe. Make of their words made, because as the old Castilian refranero well says, works are love, and not good reasons, which very well served one of his undoubtedly favorite playwrights and poets, that is, Lope de Vega, for a work of the same title, Works are love, and not good reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u23	Thank you, Mr Serrano. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the whole debate in the Commission and now also in plenary we have heard that all the reports from the OECD and international bodies say that Spain is growing far above what was planned, more than 3%, and that it is the country that creates the most employment in the European Union. From there a whole legitimizing speech is made of government policies and, in this case, of budgets. One might wonder whether this growth in GDP and this increase in employment is thanks to or despite government policies. Why do I open this question? Because the macroeconomic framework presented by the Government for 2015 has not been met at all. It is true that it has not been fulfilled for the better, but that cannot be attributed as merit to the one who made the predictions and acted accordingly. Why this introduction? Because I wonder, since we all admit - it is one of the few things in which there is unanimity in this country - that unemployment is the number one problem of the state, if it would not have been necessary policies according to the seriousness and importance of the problem. Extraordinary problems require extraordinary solutions. Has the Government adopted and presented in the 2016 budgets extraordinary measures for this serious problem? Our parliamentary group does not think so. I will give some concrete examples. First, the ministry's budget is reduced by 20% compared to 2015. A key ministry turns out to reduce the budget. Active employment policies have been reduced by 30% compared to 2011. It is true that unemployment has been reduced, but in the last two years. In the first half of the legislature, unemployment continued to rise. In fact, the EPA of the second quarter of 2011 gave 20.89 and that of the second quarter of 2015 of 22.37. Well, it is true that it has been reduced, but it is also told - the worst lie is always a half truth - the part that interests. It is not mentioned that during the first half of the legislature of this Government unemployment continued to increase. That is why I used to say that, perhaps, it is society and not so much the Government that is reacting. There are very significant data on how unemployment and unemployment coverage are being addressed. The reduction in unemployment benefits in 2015 has been 4,427 million. The 2016 budgets provide for a cut of 5,480 million. We are told, of course, that benefits are cut to the unemployed because unemployment will be reduced. In the macroeconomic table, the government plans to increase from 22.37 % to 20 %. Yes, but that is the subterfuge used by the Government on this issue, because how does it get married that, according to the macroeconomic picture, the gross domestic product for 2016 is going to be reduced, as well as national demand for both consumption and gross fixed capital formation, and they see that employment is going to increase? This is the manipulation of data which leads to the fact that there is going to be a fictitious growth in employment and, as a result, the expenditure on unemployment benefits is reduced. Indeed, you have put in place plans to activate employment, but many of them have been failed. Consider, for example, the Employment Reactivation Plan. The goal was to achieve employment for 400,000 people. By June 2015, only 53,667 had been achieved. With regard to the Youth Guarantee Plan, 85,000 young people registered after numerous bureaucratic obstacles. How many have actually been able to benefit? A good part of this problem - I am concluding because I want to make a brief reference to social security - has to do with the lack of will for political negotiation, because when - the minister herself said - the People's Group has indeed sought negotiation with the opposition groups and has managed to draw good legislative examples. There is the case of vocational training with the recent law that has been processed and mentioned by the minister herself. The Minister has also acknowledged, although she has only attributed the merit - I don't know why - to the People's Parliamentary Group, the recent compromise amendment, which provides 200 million for the care of refugees, given the serious situation. Our parliamentary group supported, not without presenting proposals that were systematically rejected, the maternity supplement measure. There are problems - I appeal to the sensitivity of all parliamentary groups - which, although they are not as media-oriented as the refugee issue, are very serious. Our group has tabled an amendment to implement a real plan to combat child poverty in our country. It's not news, but it's a reality. Unfortunately - I conclude -, not even a gesture was made to consider it. We believe, as I said at the beginning, that despite the measures taken by the Government, employment has been created. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u25	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u26	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, I thought that only in Catalonia had elections been called, but after listening to it during the thirty-five, almost forty, long minutes of his speech, it seems that President Rajoy has called general elections. Well, no, not yet. We're discussing budgets. The reality, Minister, is that the allocation for employment policies, and especially for active education policies, is one more year. In fact, it is more than 29% lower than it was intended for in 2011, when they acceded to the Government. The measurement of unemployment solely according to the unemployment rate is a trap that we cannot afford and which involves an observation of the reality that blinds the understanding of what is happening in our labour market. It should be remembered that working one hour a month, a person leaves SEPE's lists of unemployed, artificially improving statistics. In fact, if we look at the national accounts data, we see that not only has the total number of hours worked in the Spanish economy decreased, but there are 598,900 employed and 613,900 employees less in full-time equivalent employment than there were in the fourth quarter of 2011, when, I remind you once again, the Government took possession. The new data on precariousness caused by the labour reform of the People's Party and Convergence i d'Unió are reflected in a fall in wages which have dramatically increased the number of poor workers, the temporality and the partiality of employment, many of them less than a day or a few weeks, as I say. In fact, on one day, twice as many contracts are made as in 2008. Part-time work has rebounded to 16% in recent quarters. The reality is that the current budget allocates 2,137 million euros less to this matter than in 2011, with the notable difference that today there are 2 million long-term unemployed more than there were in the same year. With regard to the orientation of employment promotion policies, they again fall into the strengthening of private placement agencies and bonuses, to which more than EUR 1.6 billion are devoted. While in 2010 the coverage rate for persons receiving some type of contributory benefit or subsidy was 78 per cent, today that rate is just over 55 per cent. The amount in the benefit and grant budget, which has fallen by more than 10 billion in just two years, from 29,000 budgeted in 2014 to 19,000 in the current budget, contrasts sharply with this fall in the level of coverage. That is why our group has tabled a number of amendments, including one to the programme to promote integration and job stability. In this amendment we propose an increase in the heading of an additional 2.6 billion and, as a complement, reduce the concept of financing social security contributions by 80 %. The bonuses, Minister, have proven to be a dead weight in hiring. In other words, much of the subsidised recruitment would often occur equally without it. We keep 20% for those groups where it can be a useful tool. In the case of benefits for the unemployed, we also propose an additional allocation of more than EUR 8 billion, taking into account that the rate of benefit coverage for the unemployed has fallen sharply in recent years, reaching a low of 55 or 72 %, according to the calculations of the Ministry of Employment. An additional amount of €8.084 million is proposed for the 19,800 budgeted, in order to recover a coverage rate similar to 2010. In the time I have left, I shall refer to section 60, to which our group has also tabled an amendment in its entirety. As I was telling you, the labour market is totally precarious and supposes that, despite the existence of new social security contributors, their contributions are so small that income to social security hardly increases. Today the number of contributors is growing at a rate of 3 % but the growth in contribution income as of June 2015 is only 1.32%, despite the fact that the 2015 budgets were tremblingly forecasting an income of 6.8. The continuing deficit presented by Social Security has ended up undermining the Reserve Fund, which closed in 2014 with some 41,634 million, which represents a decapitalisation since 2012 of about 32,700 million. That is why our group is putting forward some amendments which I shall quickly detail. One of them is the additional funding of 2,314 million with a new project, a 10-year multiannual plan for the transition of pensions for death and survival through the State's General Budgets. In addition to the income derived from death and survivor's pensions for family members in respect of contributions, we believe that the Social Security Reserve Fund should be provided with an income, through general budgets, corresponding to 10 % of the amount of the said pensions and which would contribute to providing greater reserves to the fund. In ten years we could perfectly cover that difference. Finally, with regard to social security contributory pensions, I would like to comment on an additional amendment of EUR 1.5 billion, which provides budgetary guarantees for the funds needed to revalue 1.5% of pensions, rather than the 0.25 proposed by the Government, so that pensioners do not lose purchasing power. Although last year's inflation did not result in a nominal loss of the purchasing power of pensions, it had it in real purchasing power, since the pharmaceutical copay system - goods to which pensioners devote a large part of their income, as well as food - in July 2015 increased by 1.4%, and this caused them to suffer a higher price increase. This loss would add to the loss for the period 2010-2013, which was 3,4 %, especially if we take into account that the average pension...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u27	Mr. Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u28	I'm finishing up, Madam President. ... is between EUR 600 and EUR 645 per month and that the increase of 0.25 will mean in nominal terms a little more than EUR 1.50 per month of increase. In short, ladies and gentlemen, and with this I conclude, the diagnosis cannot be more desolating: temporality, precariousness, increasing number of poor workers, alarming number of long-term unemployed. In the face of a problem of such magnitude, partial and insufficient remedies are applied that cut benefits, while the coverage rate falls and saves on active policies,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u29	Mr. Pérez Moya, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u30	...the only effective antidote we have to combat long-term unemployment. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u31	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Moya. For the Convergence Group I d ́Unió, first of all, Mr Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u32	Thank you, President. These two sections, 19 and 60, show that the Government maintains an overly optimistic view; triumphalist, I should say, Minister, in view of the statement you made here today in the rostrum. The budget for expenditure on protection against unemployment is reduced by 22% in these budgets, when in years with similar unemployment rates it was budgeted 39% in unemployment benefits. The significant reduction in public expenditure on unemployment benefits is not due to, and is due to, the reduction in the unemployment rate, but rather to the fact that many people will no longer receive benefits, the exhaustion of the rights to receive unemployed workers and the increase in the requirements for their access. Let's talk about active policies. You were referring to that new model. It is still inexplicable, Minister, that the total budget allocations provided for active policies have fallen more than significantly since the start of the legislature until this year. The Government continues to forget the dramatic numbers of unemployment, especially youth unemployment, long-term unemployment and unemployment of workers over the age of fifty-five. And it must be clearly committed to active policies, which is not being done with these budgets. I would also like to remind you, Minister, that you in this section are responsible for immigration policy. Those policies had completely disappeared from the policies of his Government. Please note, Minister, despite the many requests of the parliamentary groups since the start of the parliamentary term, you did not appear in the Committee on Employment and Social Security to explain what you intended to do with migration policies. We are still waiting and the legislature is over; you have not attended. Migration policies have not been made or funding from the European Union is entrusted to them. In addition, the autonomous communities and the municipalities - public administrations that have played a very important role in this area, especially in the reception of immigrants - have not been given any funding since the 2012 budgets. They will remember that in 2012 the so-called Fund for the Reception and Integration of Immigrants disappeared. In the first intervention of her Secretary-General for Immigration in the Commission, she told us that as soon as we had a better economic perspective, that fund would recover. Ladies and gentlemen, in these budgets, which you maintain are those of economic recovery, the fund is still not there. With regard to the amendment we adopted in the Commission last week of 200 million for aid to refugees, I would like to know how this allocation will be distributed among the autonomous communities. Because it could not be understood that this endowment would not be distributed among the autonomous communities. I don't have time to talk about section 60, but it doesn't fit reality either. And the clearest example is the alleged revaluation of pensions, alleged because de facto it is a freeze of pensions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u33	Thank you, Mr. Picó. Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, your speech explaining the budget contrasts with the reality of the figures and fully justifies the rejection of Democratic Convergence. The income of Social Security is not credible - already in the current year there is less collection than you expect -, it continues to impoverish pensioners, especially Catalan pensioners, with the almost freezing of pensions, it makes them poorer. In fact, it has made them poorer in 2015. You know that inflation in Catalonia at the end of this year 2015 was 0.8 - therefore, much more than that 0.25 that went up - and that for the poorest pensioners marks the difference between being able to buy or not to buy on the market. Furthermore, Minister, this budget does not address the serious problem of financing social security, among other things - and you know it - because the rate of social security membership is not accompanied by the same growth in income through social security contributions. In addition, this budget continues to abandon widows, continues to fail to comply with the provisions of the 2011 widow's pension law, and continues to fail to recognize compulsory military service as a contribution for pension purposes, which was also committed in 2011. Finally, they have introduced a measure to support motherhood, to recognize the efforts of families, of women with children in their future pension, but, instead, they continue to freeze the main measure to encourage men's commitment to childcare, which is the best guarantee for birth growth, and that paternity leave is extended along the lines of the most advanced countries. Therefore, in Social Security there are reasons to reject your budget. In terms of employment, they continue to flee from reality, from the very high number of people living without any kind of social protection. Long-term unemployment is increasing, over fifty-five years of age without social protection is increasing, and you are reducing total spending on employment policies by more than 30% of what was in 2011. Nor does it have any realism in the employment policy that is shaped through this budget: it abandons the long-term unemployed, it abandons the unemployed over fifty-five years old, and it does not invest what must be invested in active employment policies, today much less than at the beginning of its mandate with a similar employment rate. Finally, in the area of immigration and asylum, Spain has not been committed to asylum in recent years, it has not been. Mrs. Báñez, get down to Melilla, visit CETI...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u35	Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u36	Be aware that the crisis in Syria is not just in Hungary, Serbia, Macedonia or Greece; it is in Melilla. And in Melilla more than 2,000 people live overcrowded in CETI and on the border with Morocco more than 2,000 Syrians are in the hands of the mafias. Spain is failing to protect the Syrians not in Hungary but on its own border. Madam Minister, these are perfectly reasonable arguments for rejecting an unrealistic budget in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u37	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. For the Socialist Group, Mr Simancas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the first amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to this section 19 of the budget is a return to the government because, as a separate electoral fanfare, this draft budget which you are presenting to us this morning ignores the first problem of the Spaniards, which is unemployment, and turns their backs on the most vulnerable Spaniards, who are the unemployed, the exploited workers, the poor workers. This is not a free or unjustified assessment, it is fully based on the facts and its own draft budgets. In a country with more than 5 million unemployed people, unemployment benefits are reduced by 23% for next year. Who do you think of, in a country with more than 5 million unemployed? They reduce the overall budget in employment policies compared to 2011 by more than €15 billion: €12.7 billion less we are going to spend in 2016, according to its proposed budgets, than in 2011; €2.4 billion less in active policies; a state contribution to the Public Employment Service that has decreased by 77%. How can you justify such an exaggerated, brutal, ruthless fall, I dare say, in terms of employment policies with which you are falling in our country? Do we have fewer stops now than in 2011, Minister? In the second quarter of 2015 there were 300,000 more unemployed than in the second quarter of 2011. It's just that we have more unemployed, we have 635,000 more unemployed without public protection than in 2011. There is no less need among our unemployed, there is more need for social protection among the Spanish unemployed. You have taken the social coverage rate to the unemployed to less than 28% of the EPA unemployed. More than seven out of ten EPAs in this country have no state support to survive. Where's the fanfare, Minister? Where is the justification for electoral discourses? He should be asking for forgiveness from this rostrum for the four years lost in employment policies in support of the unemployed and in support of the exploited workers of this country, without fanfare. [[Applauds]] Who is it, Minister, that is falling in this country, with the greatest unemployment in Europe, to reduce the budget in active employment policies? EUR 2.4 billion less than in 2011. Do we really no longer need to make any effort to improve the employability of our unemployed, to help our long-term unemployed find a job? Should financial resources be reduced? Should we reduce workers in public employment services? Its two main active policy initiatives have been a failure, both the Employment Activation Plan and the Youth Guarantee Programme. You told us about a starting stock of 270,000 beneficiaries; not 270,000, not 170,000, not even 70,000, minister; a failure. The youth guarantee programme, which was to cater for 850,000 young unemployed in this country, has not reached a record of 85.000. Failure after failure. And now they're announcing a new program for next year, for the new government, with fewer resources, but how dare they? How do you deal with more expenditure with less resources? Lying, Minister; they're lying in these budgets. We therefore propose amendments to extend the unemployment benefit to all unemployed people, with income shortages, in vulnerable social situations, with family burdens; strengthen active employment policies with financial and personal resources; improve the EAP with less access requirements; raise the minimum wage by 5% next year to reach this objective set by the European Social Charter of 60% of the minimum wage; a bill on equal pay for women and men; and specific plans to improve the employment situation in particularly high unemployment communities. These are our employment amendments. As far as migration is concerned, Minister, we are proposing the integration fund for immigrants, because it is not enough to welcome and receive, it is necessary to integrate, and resources are needed to integrate. Please accept this amendment. As far as Social Security is concerned - and briefly - Minister, your policy is undermining the foundations of Social Security as we know it and as the Spanish want it. How? Provoking a dramatic fall in income by the precariousness of contracts, by the very high percentage of part-time contracts, by the fall in wages, advertising aside, by their flat rates, by their high reductions to employers in contributions; fall in income. They make false predictions as to the increase in contribution income for next year. Who is going to believe if this year's revenues are growing below 1% that next year's revenues are going to grow by about 7%? Why? Where do you get those forecasts if you're not lying in the budgets again? Lying, lying and lying. There is no right to lie about the future of social security in our country, Minister. You are undermining the future of Social Security by assaulting the Social Security Reserve Fund: from 67 billion left by the socialist government - that is a legacy - you have already left it below 40,000; reducing the purchasing capacity of pensions, even minimums, with that 0.25 rise limit literally eaten by the CPI, which does not take into account the increase in pensioner spending on medicines, privatizations and co-payments. We do not agree with the approach taken by his Secretary of State to draw widow's pensions out of contribution, because that is the risk leading to widow's pensions to minimum benefits. Madam Minister, I shall finish by saying that we know what your pension model is, which you share with the European right as a whole: a public service for pyrrhic, subsistence and a private compensatory system depending on the economic capacity of each. We do not have that system, we do not agree; they will have us in front, as with these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u39	Thank you, Mr. Simancas. On a position-setting basis, by the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Ávarez-Arenas. Mrs ÁLVAREZ-ARENAS CISNEROS: Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing to say to my good friend Mr Carles Campuzano is that Catalan pensioners must also be told the truth because, honestly, ladies and gentlemen, with your project you are condemning them not to be able to collect their pensions. At the moment the pensioners of Catalonia, thanks to the solidarity of all Spaniards, have guaranteed their pension. Ladies and gentlemen, 13,000 million have been contributed to the Catalan pensioners in this legislature thanks to the resources of all the Spanish and we are very proud, very proud, Mr Campuzano. [[Applauds]] The Spanish have contributed them, not only Catalan contributions because they know that it would not really be possible to maintain their pension system only with the contributions that take place in Catalonia. [[Mr. Campuzano i Canadés: Our taxes!]] So let's really tell the truth. Mr Simancas, when you systematically repeat the word fanfare, it shows me, sincerely, that you have parliamentary and political amnesia. [[Laughter]] You have forgotten that you created 3.5 million unemployed people, that you left this country like a tsunami, like a real tsunami, and you come here to demand things that really make us hallucinated. With you, I have said this many times because it is very easy to prove, unemployment increased to 7.8%; unemployment, the unemployed in this country. And with this government, unemployment in this legislature is down to 8.13%. There's a difference! All parameters are diametrically opposite! This is what the international, national and anyone who has a bit of ethics in speaking with rigor about what is happening in Spain recognize. One hundred and eighty degrees has been turned, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Calduch used to say that in the first two years... Man, when there's a tsunami, it's all devastated, there's nothing. Do you understand? So, what should we start doing? You have to pick up the debris, remove it, and sweep it. Then you have to lay foundations that, if you want them not to be carried back by a tsunami, they have to be solid and then you start building. This has been done between 2012 and 2013. Between 2014 and 2015 we have started to lay a very solid foundation and in 2016 the construction will begin. Let us be a little realistic and also be honest with the Spanish. Let us not deny them the hope of what is happening, of what they are living. If the data of confidence and consumption were given yesterday. The consumption of the Spaniards is increasing, ladies and gentlemen - the large areas have given it - because the Spaniards know that the recovery is coming to them and will reach them more deeply with the 2016 budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, budgets are the fundamental instrument for improving the quality of life of citizens in one direction or another, in which unemployment rises, as it happened with you, or in which it falls, as it does with this government. That is why from the People's Group we again thank - I am sure that my group's colleagues have done so in the previous speeches - the Government that has had the responsibility and the courage to present budgets because they are very important not for the Government, not for the elections, ladies and gentlemen, but for the Spanish, so that the pensioners know that they have guaranteed their pension increase since 1 January, for the civil servants, for the public workers, for the small and medium-sized enterprises, for the whole of Spanish society, for the employees and the workers. They know that they have the fundamental instrument - sometimes you think this is the most important thing in politics - to do politics: budgets. Some do it to destroy jobs and others do it to create jobs. When you speak of quality, sincerely, Mr Socialist Group, it is not the same as the indefinite and stable employment increase to 14% which falls to 29%, which was what happened to you. But if that's what all Spaniards know! If that were to happen, ladies and gentlemen, until very recently, until this government has corrected it! In 2011 one out of every two unemployed in the euro area was in Spain - Mr Simancas, do not have amnesia, remember, that there has been a lot of talk about memory here, for this we must have it - and now, ladies and gentlemen, one out of every three jobs in the euro area is created in Spain. Is that the same thing? No, no, Is it ideal? No, no, Should we keep working? Yeah, and that's what these budgets are for, and that's why we're here debating them. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Reserve Fund is concerned, what you are talking about is the Northern Dawn when you talk about what this government has done. This Government has done what it has done is to use the pension fund for what was created in the Toledo Pact, for pensioners. You stole $15 billion from them to pay for the cash deficit. I'd be ashamed to come up here and tell the government what you're doing with the pension fund. [[Applauds]] I'd be ashamed of myself, Mr. De la Rocha. $15 billion that were in the budget, because there was a surplus in pensions, and instead of being placed in the fund, they spent it to pay off their expenses, their plans E and the deficits they had. That's what you did, ladies and gentlemen. Tell the Spanish, because it is very necessary to tell the truth. At this point in the film the Spaniards know perfectly well that with the People's Party they are guaranteed not only their pensions, but the revaluation of them, that inflation is contained and that there is a gain of purchasing power. Yesterday was very brilliantly told by my partner Carolina Spain. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that is an issue that has already been raised in Spanish society. The People's Party is synonymous with employment and the People's Party is synonymous with pension guarantee. That is why we say that a budget of 53% for social policies and more than 40% for social security is a highly social budget, it is a budget for the most vulnerable and those who need it most. Ladies and gentlemen, you can remain preoccupied with selling hopelessness and black clouds to the Spaniards. I would ask you to be a little more rigorous, because the effort made by the whole of Spanish society deserves recognition from this House and all of us and no longer gives them hopelessness. The Spaniards know that we are facing a solid recovery, that recovery and employment, as Minister Fatima Báñez says, whom I thank for her brilliant intervention, have come to stay. We can think of some nuances to introduce, of which we are all aware, but we cannot say that everything is black. They also talk about active policies and I have told you many times that there is no equation that says that more spending on active policies is equal to more employment, because with you, as in everything, there was more spending on active policies and there were many more unemployed, no more employment. Therefore, the exercise of responsibility, with efficiency, through objectives, evaluation and in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities is yielding much more results with a control of public expenditure, such as the one we have had to have, than with what you were doing. If you're talking about immigration, ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that it's pretty irresponsible what you said. Madam President, this is the end of the matter. The budget of the General Secretariat of Immigration has generally grown by 32.4%, 45.30 million more budget. This is specifically the programme for the care of immigrants in the centres and for humanitarian care, which has grown by 70%; ladies and gentlemen, you cannot say otherwise. You have to tell the truth, always the truth. What more can be done? Certainly, but these data are in the budget. Therefore - and I conclude with this, Madam President - our group welcomes the agreement reached in this compromise amendment to provide 200 million for solidarity support for refugees. I insist - and I finish as I began - that it could not be otherwise, because the General Budgets of the State that this Government presents have a very high social content and, among other concerns, it is that of giving the welcome that these refugees who come from countries at war, from countries that are suffering from humanitarian crises of the first order. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Members. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u40	Thank you, ma'am. Alvarez-Arenas. We move on to the debate on section 15, Finance and Public Administrations, and 36, Financing Systems for Territorial Entities. For the presentation by the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I hold this rostrum of the Congress of Deputies to defend and explain the basic lines of section 15, corresponding to the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, and section 36. It is obviously not a question, as always in these presentations, of entering into the detailed presentation of the figures, which are already sufficiently reflected in the documentation accompanying the draft Law on General State Budgets, but, as is usual in these presentations, of explaining why these figures, why the Ministry's draft Sections 15, Finance and Public Administrations, and 36, systems of financing of territorial entities of Finance and Public Administrations, and the meaning of what represents the contribution of the ministry throughout the Government of Spain. We are at the end of this legislature, which has been a demanding legislature, in which we have had to treat an economic crisis with great social depth so that we can face the economic recovery that we are experiencing at this end of the legislature, in particular in 2015, and that the 2016 budget projects and guarantees for 2016 and beyond. This is the most important thing that the draft General State Budgets do and the most important thing that rests on the task of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration. This ministry coordinates the budgetary action of the entire government, but in the state of autonomy of Spain it does much more. The Ministry of Finance and Public Administration also coordinates the budgetary policies of the territorial administrations, autonomous communities and local corporations, and on the ministry lies the responsibility for the fulfilment of the public deficit objectives for all the administrations of Spain. We are the interlocutor of the budgets of all public administrations with the European institutions and, therefore, the guarantor of the fulfilment of the deficit and public debt objectives that our country, as a member of the European Union and as a member of the euro, is committed to. The 2016 budgets again emphasize the importance of reducing the public deficit and public debt in our country, confirm the reduction of the public debt on our country's gross domestic product and make it compatible with a slight increase in public expenditure, which continues to be marked by rigour and austerity but increases, and does so because it increases the collection of taxes resulting from the new economic situation that our country is experiencing, in particular that which begins clearly in 2014, is deepened in this year 2015 and is projected towards 2016. With the new 2016 budgets, officials are guaranteed that their salary will rise by 1% after five years of freezing and with the drop in their salaries in 2010. This is the first time that officials have guaranteed this increase, this advance in the recovery of their economic power, their purchasing power, and they have it for all of Spain, since we are amending the basic regulation so that this increase can be transferred by all public administrations. Officials are also guaranteed the full recovery of the payment that was withdrawn from them in December 2012; the remaining 50% are guaranteed in these 2016 budgets. I am sure that, regardless of what happens in the general elections, officials will be charged the pay in 2016. You may change the composition of this House, but I can't imagine anyone at the beginning of 2016 going up here to say they won't charge half the outstanding pay. Therefore, they are budgets that give a lot of confidence and security to those who have also been the creators of this economic recovery through their professionalism and effort, which are the officials, who are making public services available to the Spaniards; therefore, with their capacity for action they are making possible economic recovery and job creation in all areas of economic activity, including the very scope of the Public Service, because the rate of replenishment of the Public Service in the new budgets is also projected to one hundred percent for much broader public services. We are therefore ensuring the provision of these public services through the creation of new jobs there too. In addition, the 2016 budgets are a guarantee for our country's pensioners, who see how they increase their pensions when we close 2015 with clearly negative CPIs in terms of evolution but compatible with the recovery of our economy. The 2016 budgets support tax cuts, e.g. corporate tax. The company tax will double in 2016 and its overall rate will remain at 25 %, which will make the new company tax when the capitalisation funds provided for in the new tax figure can reach effective rates of 20 % and even below 20 % for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important that we note that there are already tax cuts programmed in the 2016 budgets, reductions that are key to the continuity of the economic recovery, to the deleveraging of our business sector and to attract new investments to Spain, as is the reduction of the company tax that I want to put in value this morning. Corporate tax has already been lowered in this year 2015 and this reduction will continue in 2016. And there's more. Tax collection continues to be strengthened in our country in 2015, as the Tax Agency is recording - and I will now give the latest figures in this regard - at a rate that shows that there is no economic slowdown in Spain, unless there is an economic slowdown that is compatible with the increase in tax collection, but we have not yet discovered the economic foundations that can support such an approach. In other words, tax collection is absorbing by far the fall in taxes, which only in the IRPF in the period from January to August stands at 2.6 billion euros, plus the decrease in corporate tax, thus reaching 3.6 billion euros, and I remind you that 25 % of the outstanding payment of civil servants has also been paid at the beginning of the year, and yet the growth of the agency's tax revenue in the period from January to August amounts to 5.2 % in homogeneous terms. It is a rise, in relation to the one that already recorded the period January-July, that comes to show that economic activity in Spain is recovering. And this rise comes from the expansion of tax bases for all the players in our economic activity: companies, the collection of VAT, professionals, who are also increasing to 16% the fractional payment of their personal income tax in the first half of this year, just as VAT payments for the same period I am quoting are growing to 11.2% for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the rest of the companies - large companies - to 8%. Therefore, we are facing a very important expansion of tax bases in our country, which makes the tax reduction already practised by the Government in 2015 compatible. I insist: we have absorbed a decrease of EUR 3 billion with an increase in the tax agency's cash collection of more than 5% in the January-August period. Therefore, the Government does not see a slowdown in economic activity; I want to move it publicly as there are other estimates, all of which are highly respectable but none comparable to the quality that gives the knowledge of economic activity through tax collection. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, there is no economic slowdown in this second half of 2015, but quite the contrary, because the figures I am revealing today from the Chamber of Deputies do not even capture the whole of the summer; I am talking about the beginning of the summer, the split payments of both professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises, of economic activity in general, but what has been a summer that we all have to rate as very positive in terms of economic activity we are not yet reflecting in terms of tax collection. This, in short, insists on the argument that economic activity is strong in Spain, that domestic demand is growing at a good rate in our country. This is the best thing that can happen to us, and it explains that Spain is growing three times as much as the average of the euro countries because that makes it possible for us to have that growth and that job creation. By the way - it is tomorrow that the Minister of Employment and Social Security and the Vice-President of the Government have already insisted on this - we are leading the creation of employment in the developed world and that has to do with the strength of our economic growth, the characteristics of our economic growth, and fundamentally with the economic policy that the Government is doing during 2015, which is giving more strength to domestic demand, more capacity to invest, more capacity to consume all the economic agents of our country, because, I insist, the decline of the IRPF is a reality on the payrolls of the Spanish workers and, of course, of the officials and pensioners, who are subject to IRPF; its purchasing capacity is increasing, which is allowing us to have more growth and we are collecting more VAT, VAT from not only large companies, but from the expansion of tax bases of small and medium-sized enterprises. This says a lot about how small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people are participating in Spain's economic recovery. All of this is compatible with a Spain that is also taking the lead in terms of exports, a Spain that is very competitive, with an economy that is going to close this year with financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world. And something fundamental to strengthen the economic recovery that is taking place in our country is to continue it, because the problem, the root of the crisis in Spain, was the external indebtedness of our country. In this de-alignment of Spain is where we have to insist, where we have to frame the policies of reduction of the deficit and of the public debt, that already for next year will start to go down with these General Budgets of the State, and that policy of de-alignment of the public sector will complete the policy of de-alignment of the private sector, because it has been truly exemplary the de-alignment of the private sector that has lived in this legislature, since the whole of the companies and families have lowered their level of indebtedness by more than 35 billion euros, something that has not done any country in the world and that is, I insist, the guarantee of that economic recovery in the form of liquidity. Therefore, the budgets compromise for the future this policy that the Spanish Government has been implementing since the beginning of the legislature. It is also important to say that the amendments that are being discussed this morning, the amendments proposed by many political groups this morning, are spending increases which are incompatible with the reduction of the public deficit. That is why the votes will be taken in correspondence. Then do not tell us that we do not meet the demands of the opposition; the opposition is not committed to the reduction of the public deficit, is not committed to the reduction of the public debt, which is what these budgets contain. If the proposals are all of increased expenditure, they are not admissible under the current political conditions of this House and are not admissible with a budgetary policy approach such as that of the Government, which is facilitating the exit from the crisis in our country. Here's the argument. I do not hear in this debate - he did not give up asking for it - the commitment to reducing the public deficit. Where is that commitment on the part of the opposition participants in this debate? They come up to complain that there is no money, that there is no more money to do many things. Things that ruin Spain more? But have we not yet learned what that money was for, from what our country's E plans were, from what was the review of an autonomous funding that supposedly provided in 2009 more than €9 billion to the autonomous communities? Where are those 9 billion euros? They were like that stone that is placed on the neck of Spain so that it sinks even deeper into the economic crisis and deepens the destruction of jobs. Where are those 9 billion euros? If you would like to show them to me, you will serve as a basis for future political debates, such as the future of the autonomous financing of Spain, to which the Government is committed. But I insist that the commitment to the reduction of deficit and debt, which we have exercised since the beginning of the legislature, is the one that is taking Spain out of the crisis, and that no one can deny with the data in hand. Of course they can deny it in the different categories of political debate and intellectual debate, but it has brought no more suffering to the Spaniards; what it has brought is an economic growth that is translated into employment as never before in our country, a differential growth and job creator. That is undeniable, because the figures are there, but also intellectual resistance is there, obviously, in order not to recognize what is measured, what is quantified, the result of policies. That they were tough? Of course they were hard! But that's not the expression we have to highlight now, it's whether they were worth it, and it was worth it because we're growing and creating jobs. What would Spain be if it were not growing and creating employment at the end of this legislature? What would be of those political debates that take place in our country about projects if it were not really about this scenario of growth and job creation? Where would we be if we were like at the beginning of the legislature? We are not at the beginning of the legislature because we have given a treatment that has guaranteed the financing of our public services, starting with pensions, which today have a deficit, but the deviation from the deficit of our Social Security this year, 2015 can be perfectly absorbed by what would be the surplus of the State that has been registered until July, because the State is lowering its deficit nothing less than 17%. Therefore, the Government's aspiration is that, even if there is a slight deviation from the social security deficit, which is so worrying to your ladies and gentlemen - and it is to be welcomed that you are obviously concerned about the deficit in the public pension system - what we have to explain is that we are going to have a surplus of the General State this year, and that is what will make up for it. The same applies to the deficit of the autonomous communities. If there is a deviation from the target of 0.7 in all the autonomous communities, this deviation can also be covered by the surplus of other public administrations, such as the municipalities, which are also bound by the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability to maintain the quality of their public finances in the terms in which it is. That is why, because all the administrations together are doing this task, they do not make sense political discourses such as those we have heard from the government changes of 24 May, political discourses of increasing spending, new rulers who come to increase spending and not to commit themselves to reducing public deficits, to cleaning up their public administrations. I have insisted enough - and not as a minister of finance and public administration, but since I have used reason in the political sense of the term - that to spend we all serve. Some rulers say, "They have chosen me to spend." It will be because it has not been well explained, because you do not have room for spending until your Finance is cleared up, that is your responsibility; you have the responsibility to decide what spending you are going to devote the available resources to, but that is not the responsibility to interrupt the correction of the public deficit and the public debt, which is impeded by the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. Of course, the Government of Spain is committed to that deficit and debt correction policy, which, I insist, is the guarantee of the continuity of economic recovery, the guarantee that we will have so ambitious but achievable goals for the coming years that we will have 20 million occupied at the end of the next parliamentary term; of course, provided that we do this kind of policy. I would like to tell you that, in terms of providing tax resources, resources that come from the payment of our taxes, Section 36 also envisages an increase in the budget allocation for our territorial public administrations, which are in charge of absolutely fundamental areas of the welfare state, such as education, health or social protection, tasks to which they have to devote those available resources, tasks compatible with the reduction of the public deficit in our country and its public administrations. Moreover, these are tasks to which they are bound by the laws currently in force, laws that have obviously been passed by this House, the Congress of Deputies, and by the Spanish Senate and, therefore, laws that bind all the rulers. I explain it that way because they have more resources. As you know, the increase for the autonomous communities is important, it is an increase of funds available of the order of 8.7%, and for the local entities of 3.14 %, also with very important savings in their debt, for which in this legislature we have made a process of mutualization; we have made a process of mutualization of the debts of the territorial administrations, which means that today the State is financing at zero cost the corresponding part of the debt that those administrations have contracted with it and that in some of them it reaches a very significant percentage, of 40 or 50 % of the total, whose cost is financed by the State and therefore releasing resources for those administrations. In the case of Catalonia, territorial financing funds are increased in 2016 by 12.12 %, up to EUR 17,225 million, and the savings of interest rates for belonging to the extraordinary liquidity mechanisms add up to an amount in 2016 of EUR 1,026 million, which means a total savings for territorial administrations of EUR 2,908 million. Catalonia alone takes a third, given the magnitude of its debt; therefore, the benefit it obtains is due to the fact that much of its debt is owed to the State and not to financial agents. That is allowing the evolution, I insist, of the state's account. This year we are reducing the deficit of the state by absorbing the financial costs of the debts of our territorial administrations. This means that with the new resources available there must be no problem in meeting the deficit targets in 2016, neither of autonomous communities nor much less of local corporations. That's right, I insist that if a local corporation has a lot of debt, it has to face the reduction of it, because that's what's getting us out of the economic crisis and what's forcing us. Because we are bound by common sense, but we are also bound by our laws and our Constitution, and we are bound by the euro. That is why we receive the funding that is available today in Spanish banks and that is going to families with increasing intensity for the purchase of housing, but also to small and medium-sized enterprises at increasingly accessible interest rates and which really correspond to that of a euro economy, an economy financed under these conditions that makes banking credit also growing. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, my words stress once again the importance of the deficit, the importance that next year, with the achievement of the objectives, let us get out of the corrective arm of the European Commission, in the sense that we will be below the 3% limit set by the Stability Pact of Europe, and this will mean a lot to strengthen the recovery of international investment in our country and will also mean a lot in terms of margins that we will gain in order to make increasingly important decisions in this Parliament, both in relation to tax policy and to spending policy, always compatible with that objective. In addition, next year will be the year in which the public debt on gross domestic product will begin to be reduced, and this is absolutely essential in order to walk with increasing intensity in what will be Spain's deleveraging in the next parliamentary term and, therefore, the strengthening of the economic conditions for us to have a healthy, well financed economic growth, which is to which we Spaniards aspire. And all this is based on another of the policies that obviously belong to the scope of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, which is the policy of the fight against tax fraud, which continues to have a revenue this year. The result of the fight against tax fraud in the first half of the year improves the results by 20% compared to the first half of 2014. Therefore, the effectiveness with which the Tax Agency is fighting fraud is absolutely essential for the regularization of our country's economic activity and obviously we must also insist this morning on the recognition of the professionalism and objectivity with which the Tax Agency is carrying out that task. I would also like to tell you that, as a result of the laws that have been passed in this legislature, today we have identified in Spain more than EUR 126 billion as new tax information that we had not identified at the beginning of 2012, corresponding to 192,000 taxpayers. Therefore, we are also faced with a very remarkable outflow of heritage that guarantees the fairness of our tax system and gives us more possibilities than when that heritage is not declared. Today it is declared, it is regularized and this great process of tax regularization opens up the possibility that in the future, in the years to come, we will be able to implement tax reduction policies for those who are paying them faithfully and intensify that reduction as the widening of tax bases is taking place. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the General Budgets of the State for 2016 are a political necessity, we cannot call them otherwise; they are a necessity that confirms the policy that is taking us out of the economic crisis; they are the guarantee that Spain will have a goal next year, which is to meet its European commitments, thus helping the whole of the euro area to gain in that stability that will also make Europe stronger economically, which will facilitate it to face the task and challenge of increasing solidarity, solidarity between Europeans and solidarity of Europeans with the rest of the world, especially with that part of the world that continues to suffer from wars and political persecution. To face this new challenge of solidarity can only do so on our economic strength and that strength requires the economic and budgetary stability, holy and sign of the policy of the People's Party Government that we have applied in this legislature. I hope that in this debate of amendments the parliamentary groups will confirm that they are committed to this economic recovery; that they will not deny it in the first place, but above all that they will confirm that they are committed to the objectives of deficit and correction of public debt, which will lead us towards the configuration of alternative government policies in our country. We must end up recognizing the immense task that the Spanish people have done in this economic recovery. The recognition of the Government has only the meaning of returning the effort made. The Government has put the best of itself, insisting that for many long periods it has been a hard bet, if you want to be misunderstood, but here are the results. There is a country that is once again a benchmark in Europe and in the world. There's a society that's back to being what it was when it started to be a founding member of the euro. Spain, that great country. That great country where we all belong, all ideologies, all sensibilities, as are all ideologies and sensibilities in that Europe. Therefore, the Government's commitment is for the inclusive economic recovery, social cohesion, understanding of all administrations, understanding and collaboration with all the governments that form the State of Spain's autonomy, and it is for the commitment of the correct financing of public services, of the services provided by a modern State such as the Spanish State, but where also the support of the State's own public services of well-being are basic, fundamental in the aspirations of the Government and in the content of the General Budgets of the State that examines this House in its amendments and proposals during the days of this September. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Canongia Gerona: It's about time!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u42	I think it's amazing. [[Mr. Matarí Sáez: A little more education]] Mr Calduch has the floor in defence of amendments, first of all by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u43	Thank you, Madam President. When I reviewed the budget data in sections 15 and 36 I thought that Mr Montoro's ministry was the Ministry of Public Administration and Finance rather than the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, because the budget presented by his ministry for 2016 actually increases by 20%, up to 30 billion, but the main figure of this increase -5 billion - goes to the autonomous communities and local authorities, which rise by 7.3%. On the other hand, the financial resources allocated to the Tax Agency only increase by 0.26% and will obviously not be offset by the non-replenishment rate of 50% by the 8 % human resources cuts that have already occurred. Our parliamentary group logically addresses in its amendments a number of issues relating to the management of taxes, and the first question is how this data is going to combat tax fraud, whose estimates we made years ago put it at around EUR 60 billion. The answer has been given by the Government itself and acknowledged by the minister himself: a bad practice. That bad practice is often called fiscal regularization - misnamed - where there has actually been an increase in collection, and what is more important - and our parliamentary group recognizes it - a huge stock of tax fraud has been detected. Now, the question that is being asked by our parliamentary group and which was trying to channel its amendments is whether it would not have been more useful to have been spending in previous years, and also for the 2016 budgets, more resources to the Tax Agency, more financial resources, more tax resources, a modernization of the legal instruments, as has just been done with the reform of the General Tax Law that we have just processed, and so on, precisely in order not to have to resort to that exceptional formula. From our parliamentary group we can say this, Minister, because our parliamentary group did not make any fiscal regulation when it ruled, since we have never ruled, and therefore we have authorities to be able to say that we consider it a bad practice, which has its beneficial consequences, I have no doubt, we will not deny it, but alternative formulas could be considered, which is what we have been demanding for years, increasing resources for the Public Finance. That is why I was asking whether we would not be in the Ministry of Public Administration because, instead - and this has to do with section 36 - his ministry has been diligent in dealing with the problem of the public deficit and also of the hidden public deficit, but it has done so - also from our point of view - with another bad practice which is to create what was previously called the Autonomous Liquidity Fund and which is currently included in the budgets as the Financing Fund for Autonomous Communities and Local Authorities, and to which it is going to allocate 25 billion for the Autonomous Communities and 1 billion for local authorities. All right; we had to face that reality, but once resolved, we are not very clear that this should continue to be practiced in the future, and I say this because there are simply alternative methods. I will then refer to one we are proposing in our amendments, which is to increase the resources for the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, but first of all I would like to make a number of reflections on this: firstly, our group has been proposing year after year, without success of course, the release of financial resources which we believe are not necessary; in particular, we are talking about the elimination of parliaments, not of lobbyists and island councils, and the merger of municipalities. We believe that by 2016 this could, according to the proposal of our amendments, release a number of resources around €3 billion, which could be allocated to another series of items that we propose. But of course what we do not understand is that we continue to use an extraordinary credit system - I have already referred to the Autonomous Communities Financing Fund - where there is no penalty for non-compliance with the deficit target by the Autonomous Communities. It is not only that there is no penalization, that is, that the autonomous communities that do not meet the deficit do not come out penalized, but that there is a prize, which is surprising, because from the point of view of the management of resources for the financing of territorial entities that discourages the communities that do. What is the prize given to them by the People's Government? For 2 billion, which is going to be spent, roughly, on paying the interest on that debt of the autonomous communities that are not going to have to pay. Really, as a contributor I would like the Ministry of Finance to arrive one day and say to myself, "Hey, I'm going to exempt you from paying the interest you have to pay if you ask for a credit to regularize your accounts." What is the result?, - and with this I conclude -. The result is all that series of amendments that we are proposing, both to strengthen the ability of the Tax Agency to collect and combat fraud and to establish a new system of financing for the Autonomous Communities; we all agree that it needs to be reformed, but that it is effectively reformed to improve the system of effective financing for the Autonomous Communities, not to facilitate the spending of some of the Autonomous Communities and their Governments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u44	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, claiming that in two years, 2015 and 2016, the public deficit will be reduced by 3%, i.e. by more than half, is simply not credible. In this regard, I refer to the fact that in May the European Commission made it clear that it believed that Spain would not achieve this deficit below 3% by 2016, and that Spain would fail to put the deficit at 4.2 in 2015. That is the view outside our borders. Therefore you cannot come here to tell us that everything is wonderful, that government policy is wonderful, that taxation works, yes, especially if we think that income from work pays around 17, 18 or 19% and the Sicav only 1%. They are concrete examples of the day-to-day and the disparity of criteria and contradictions in our country's economic and fiscal policy. I will give you another example of why what you are proposing is not credible. Last year we were told that social security contributions - we discussed it in the debate in the previous section - would increase by 6.8%; by mid-year we have an increase of approximately 1.32%; that is, only 20% of the budgeted, and you as if nothing, present it today with an increase in contributions to employers and workers of 8.4% by 2016. If we are at 1.32 in the middle of this year on a forecast of 6.8%. Let us not play; we already know that we are in an electoral campaign, Minister, but let us not play with the figures in this way to deceive the citizens as a whole and also this Parliament. Above all, we are concerned that these budgets affect the loss of competence and the political dispossession of the municipalities, causing a violation we understand as embarrassing of local autonomy, another of the attacks on what our Constitution says. I believe that we can strongly affirm that the centralist view of the state that the people's government has is equivalent to an anti-social view of reality. The bulk of the financing of the welfare state in our country belongs to the autonomous communities responsible for such central and essential items as health and education, but in turn the local authorities are responsible for a large part of social policy, and by definition the one that is closest to the citizens and those who suffer the most from the consequences of the crisis. The municipalities are the real trench of the social crisis in our country. The greater effort required of local authorities and autonomous communities puts the quality of our education and health system, as well as other basic social policies, at risk. Beyond the excessive optimism in the calculation of the deficit between all the administrations - I referred to it a moment ago - of 2.8%, something difficult to believe, as I said at the beginning of the intervention, the distribution of that deficit which does not allow the least imbalance to the local authorities, only 0.3% to the autonomous communities and 2.2% to the Central Administration, unusual considering the responsibilities and levels of expenditure of each one. You mentioned in your speech, Minister, that the opposition in the amendments only raises an increase in expenditure and we do not talk about other revenue. No, no, at least I am speaking for my Group on the Plural Left; what we are proposing from your budget proposal is another way of managing expenditure, and I will give you an example also by referring to the previous debate. In the section on promoting employment inclusion and stability, we have proposed a modification of EUR 1.6 billion, and we have said: where can that amount, that EUR 1.6 billion, be drawn from? Very easy: from the contributions you make to private placement agencies or from bonuses to social security contributions, because they are bonuses that do not help to stabilize or increase recruitment because they would be exactly the same. It's a simple example. In conclusion, with regard to the concern to boost the work that the municipalities are doing to combat the social crisis, I would like to highlight three parts, two of a general nature and one very concrete. A budget of EUR 40 million is for the economic cooperation of the State with the local level, so that the municipalities can deal with social assistance, energy poverty, child malnutrition, social housing aid, etc., which is what the municipalities really contribute to, despite the zero deficit that you are imposing on them. Another item is for municipalities with a population of no more than 20,000 inhabitants, a special funding fund to help prevent the depopulation that is occurring in municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, which are the least resourced, and a very concrete proposal as an example for the city of Santiago de Compostela in support of the consortium with 2 million euros, due to the role that it plays as a World Heritage Site that it is, the role that it plays in tourism and the conditions that Santiago has to be able to develop its activity, so that of the 4,700,000 euros that the consortium currently has, it can reach 7 million, far from the 11 million that it was five years ago. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u46	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Moya. For the Convergence and Union Group, first of all, Mr Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I tell you frankly and clearly, Minister, I envy you for your triumphalism, because in view of the reality that many people and many families are suffering, it is to be envied. Let us take stock of fiscal policy, Minister. His Government had pursued a tax policy that had led to a widespread increase in the vast majority of taxes, the income tax of individuals, corporate tax, VAT, excise duties, a tax policy that, from our perspective, had not sufficiently supported economic recovery and job creation. It is a fiscal policy that has negatively affected families, middle classes, self-employed workers and small and medium-sized enterprises; a fiscal policy that has burdened the increase in collection in the middle classes, yes, Minister, in the middle classes and in those economic sectors, preventing their potential for economic recovery and job creation. [[The Minister of Finance and Public Administration makes negative gestures]] Let's talk about financing the autonomous communities. His Government had preferred to finance the autonomous communities extraordinarily through loans and credits rather than as it should, and contrary to the law on a regular basis, through a new funding system. Last year we had to have a new funding system in place and it is clear that we do not have it, Minister. It is a disloyalty on the part of the Government; but there are more disloyalties, it is not the only one. The Autonomous Communities have not participated in the revenue that has been generated by the increase in VAT and certain excise duties, or, for example, against the opinion of Airef and the majority of Autonomous Communities you did not want to provide for a symmetrical distribution of deficit targets. Minister, one day you will have to appear in this House, in the Commission or in plenary, to explain to us why you believe - as you have done - that there should not be a symmetrical distribution of deficit targets among the autonomous communities. I do not want to refer to any other disloyalties, such as transfers of payment to the Competitiveness Fund for the years 2014 and 2015 are to be made in two years' time, and I also do not talk to you about the application of the principle of institutional loyalty, which has not existed in this legislature. Please note that deliveries on account of the autonomous financing system are neither adequate nor adequate to the evolution of tax revenues collected. Minister, there have been disloyalties, many disloyalties with the autonomous communities regarding their funding, and we demand this not out of whim, Minister, but out of loyalty and legality. As I said, I envy your triumphalism, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u48	Thank you, Mr. Picó. Mr. Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only four minutes. I begin by telling you that in the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia we are committed to reducing the public deficit, and we have shown it where we govern, but we are committed to the fund, not its forms. The immense power of the People's Party in this House has made them lose what we would say in Catalan the seny, the forms and the background. Ladies and gentlemen, Convergence Démocratique de Catalunya understands that the PP, its parliamentary group and its Government, with the presentation of these budgets have lost the opportunity to congratulate themselves with autonomous communities and local administrations, renewing the situation created by making it difficult, functionally and economically, the capacity of these administrations to meet people in the basic needs of health, education and social care, services and investments that are affected for the fifth consecutive year that, although they excuse the necessary rationalization of the Administration, they actually develop a re-centralizing policy, which they already see where they take us. This with an aggravating, that of rationalization nothing at all. The sacrifices suffered by citizens, in application of the cuts imposed on autonomous communities and local administrations, are not accompanied by the necessary rationalization of the General Administration of the State, and the debates in the approval sessions of the General Account of the State for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 demonstrate this. While the deficit of the autonomous communities is contained or low, while the general situation of the municipalities and local administrations becomes a general surplus, the deficit of the General Administration of the State continues to increase. Since the budget of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration is again geared towards re-centralisation rather than rationalizing expenditure, imposing economic stifling on the autonomous communities in general and Catalonia in particular, we are obliged to request the return of this section to the Government. Since the beginning of January 2014, a new financing agreement for the Autonomous Communities had to be in place in line with the competences they manage, but it has not been so. Secondly, and linked to the above, it is unjustifiable and a lack of absolute loyalty that, in compliance with the current Act on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities, the Ministry ceases to ensure the financial self-sufficiency of the administrative levels in a coherent manner to the allocated expenses. On the contrary, in a context of improving economic growth and increasing incomes, by means of taxes, you have not wanted to increase the amount of deliveries to the autonomous communities. On the one hand, this means denying autonomous communities resources that affect, as has been said, the services they provide to citizens. Injustice is total and citizens must know it, because there is more and worse. The policy of denying advances to the autonomous communities implies in practice a financial engineering operation to cover, with two annuities, the deficits caused by the General Administration of the State. And here I mean your words about Catalonia. It's not entirely true or it's half true what he said about 2012. These are two annuities that the central government owes to Catalonia. As far as municipalities and other local administrations are concerned, the People's Party, despite the huge presence of elected deputies at the municipal level, has been unable to repeat the errors incorporated in the laws of budgetary stability, rationalisation and sustainability and budget support - which it said: according to the fund, not according to the forms, minister - laws that have led to municipalities and parliaments to the paradox of becoming basic elements in the dynamism of local economies to mere funders of the large bank. Thus, in order to conceal the manifest inability of a few and certain local governments, all municipalities have been prevented - and are still being prevented - from their ability to maintain the levels of services and the pace of investment, directly harming their citizens. Definitely, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as I have had occasion to express in the proceedings of the Lrsal, above you - I mean you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament - of your initiatives, your capacities and your experience, which I have, in municipalities and autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u50	Mr. Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u51	One second. ... His Government, the Government of the People's Party, imposes the criteria of the technicians, the technocrats of the state, which some political group calls caste. It is a pity, because democracy does not go there and the result is being found on the street. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u52	Thank you, Mr. Pàramo. For the Socialist Group, Mr Saura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have brought a weekend headline in an economic newspaper that says: the deficit will reach 5% this year and will be the highest in the eurozone. [[It shows it.]] It goes on to say: the International Monetary Fund, the Commission, the Bank of Spain, Funcas, the Fiscal Authority, see it impossible to achieve the target of 4.2% in relation to GDP. This is the key, this is the trap of the 2016 budget proposal. What the budget proposal does is a salad of figures, a Chinese tale, an electoral program, political marketing, whatever they want, but it is not a budget proposal, because the 2015 deficit target is not going to be met. That means, in order for all citizens to know, that if the People's Party were to govern in the next legislature, which I am convinced is not going to be so, the citizens must know that there will be additional cuts in the welfare state and in public investment. This will lead to greater depression in economic activity. In the economic jargon that is known as a pro-cyclical fiscal policy. This is what is happening in fiscal and budgetary matters right now with the public accounts. Mr Montoro today has been assuming that the collection is going like a shot, but you have acknowledged in the presentation of the draft budgets that you are not going to meet tax revenues again this year by €4 billion. This is what he said to all the Spaniards. In other words, there has not been one in the entire legislature in the area of tax revenue. You, who tell us all that you are a magnificent manager, have not fulfilled any tax revenue year, and this year you do not acknowledge that you will not meet it by €4 billion. In addition to the fact that this year this deficit target is not going to be met, as most analysts say, income forecasts are also incredible, because we are going to move from a 3.3% growth in this year, according to the government, to a 2.7% growth next year. There is a significant change in trend: from 3.3% - yes, things are happening in the economy in the second half - to 2.7%. Income estimates are therefore also a problem from the point of view of this draft budget. The Spanish economy and the exit from the crisis have international risks, but they also have significant national risks, and those risks are spelled out as Rajoy's mistake. The first risk is the deviation of the public deficit of 2015 in a proceelous sea of debt that the Spanish economy has. The public debt has grown by 35 billion euros, including the falsification of the numbers of the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party, including the Valencian Community. Yes, Mr Montoro, the debt has increased in this legislature by 35 billion euros. You said here this morning that in 2016 it will lower public debt. No, Mr Montoro, public debt is going to increase next year in absolute terms and also in relation to GDP; and now I will explain myself. The second risk is explained by basing the competitiveness of the Spanish economy on increasing competitiveness. Such competitiveness has no future. Let's talk about pensions, the first leg of the welfare state. In the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are convinced that they want public pensions of misery. They have led Social Security to a hole of 15 billion euros that they cover with the Social Security Reserve Fund, which was at the beginning of the legislature at 70 billion euros. You said that there is no problem with pensions and that we just have to cover that deficit with more taxes. That is what you have said publicly, but before you have explained to all Spaniards that your model of society is that public revenues do not exceed 38% of GDP; and we are going to end this year at almost 38% of GDP of income. Then to finance this 2-point gap in relation to GDP, Mr Montoro, the solution is to increase public debt or public poverty pensions. You will be able to tell a lot of people the milonga, but you have told us that above 38% in relation to GDP is going to lower taxes to higher incomes, because the cause of this year's deficit deviation is tax reform or, rather, the tax gift in corporation tax to large corporations and higher incomes. The third risk, Mr Montoro, which is also written with Rajoy's error, appears because the economy suffers from the political inability to manage the political and territorial complexity of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the risk to the Spanish economy is not politics, but the inability to manage the complexity, the plurality of this country that has come to stay. The risk to the economy cannot be what citizens want; the risk is that this government of order and command and of roll generates bad results from an economic point of view. I'm going to explain myself and I'm done, Madam President. Its absolute majority has damaged the reputation and confidence of citizens in many independent institutions; for example, the reputation of the Tax Agency, approving a tax amnesty and using it to promote the interests of the party and its great friends. Mr Montoro, a modern knowledge-based economy is incompatible with institutions that are perceived as unfair and unequal according to what kind of citizens and what types of businesses. That's the key. A modern knowledge-based economy cannot be based on an unequal institutional framework, on friendship and on favouring the party that supports the Government. Therefore, these are the national risks of the Spanish economy, the risks that are written in error. Mr Montoro, you tell us that the risks of the future of the Spanish economy pass through the Socialist Party. No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u54	Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u55	The most important national risk to the economy is Rajoy and his way of conceiving politics and, of course, also the deviation of the deficit and the increase of the public debt by 35 billion euros. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u56	Thank you, Mr. Saura. On a position-setting basis, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Madrazo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Saura, I regret once again to remind you that the only risk that exists for our economy is a Socialist Party that has no plans for the future for Spain and that its only aspiration is to reach the government by allied with populist and radical forces to bring Spain back to economic ruin and to the disaster of the destruction of employment in which they left this country. [[Applauds]] That's the only risk to our economy. The Spanish voted for us in 2011 in a majority and did so for a reason, above all, so that we could get them out of the tremendous economic crisis and the tremendous destruction of employment in which the socialist government left us. Today the People's Party Government has been able to transform that reality because that is what politics is for, to take action, to make reforms and to be able to transform that reality. Today, Socialists, we are at the head of Europe - you know it well even if you are not interested in recognizing it - in economic growth and job creation. We are debating today the budget of section 15, Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, which has been the protagonist of this economic recovery and the adoption of economic measures and reforms necessary to boost this economic recovery. The budget of this section, because of its characteristics, does not have a direct impact on public investment, but its great importance - which I would like to focus on today - lies in the effects of economic, fiscal and budgetary policy measures on the overall activity of the Spanish economy. In this regard, I would like to take advantage today of the presence of the Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro, to congratulate you on my behalf and on behalf of the entire People's Parliamentary Group, because he and his team have carried out a sound economic, fiscal and budgetary policy throughout the legislature, which is allowing us to gradually leave the crisis behind. Its policies have managed to turn to a very critical situation and today, working until the last minute as the People's Party Government always does, it brings to this House the fifth budgets of this legislature to approve them and, again, it makes an exercise of responsibility and commitment to the whole of Spanish society, because the approval of these General State Budgets is the best instrument to give our economy the stability and credibility necessary to continue to grow and create employment, which is our main objective. Once again Mr Saura in this rostrum - because he has the whole legislature doing the same - wishes great disasters for our economy but, fortunately, he has not given a nail in the whole legislature, because this economic recovery is reaching the Spanish families, no matter how much they try to deny it. Consumer confidence indices, consumption, investment, credit growth, export growth, all economic indicators point to the fact that we are leaving this crisis behind, but in addition, this million people who will have joined the labour market between 2014 and 2015 are clearly seeing that they have new employment opportunities, that recovery is indeed coming to their homes because they have found employment and, in addition, conveys hope to those who, to date, have not been able to do so. Mr Saura, I have to tell you once again, the Socialist Party is left with demagogy and lacks credibility. It lacks credibility because we already know the results of its economic policies. Their recipes to fight poverty - because they always like to talk about rich and poor - are absolutely a lie, because I remind them that in this country the Socialist Party has ruled for more than twenty years and those policies of progress and equality that they preach so much would have already ended these inequalities and have not done so. The only result of its policies has always been public deficit, destruction of employment, waste of public money, frozen pensions and a ruined country. That is why the great lie of the left is not credible to Spanish society, because we know the result of their policies every time they govern and their opposition, having no alternative, is only a destructive opposition, which does not make a single contribution in positive, which has not been able to hold its shoulder at very difficult and difficult times for Spain and have not lived up to the circumstances of a party that aspires to be an alternative government. One more year, the opposition groups put forward an amendment to all these sections 15 and 36, repeating the same arguments of every year. We are told that they do not like the government's tax reform because, in your opinion, it is neither fair nor equitable. I have to repeat in this rostrum once again that average and low incomes are going to pay less taxes than with Mr Zapatero and that the minimum rate that this government has set in the IRPF is 5 points below the IRPF that they paid with the Government of Zapatero. Therefore, in our political DNA it is continuing to lower taxes on citizens and businesses in order to continue to stimulate economic activity and employment; in that of other parties, such as the Socialist Party, it is raising taxes and squandering on unproductive spending. It also rejects the entire opposition to the budget of the Tax Agency, and I have to tell you that the Ministry of Finance has made a clear commitment to support the Tax Agency in these budgets, increasing its funding by 2%. In addition, the Tax Agency has achieved some results that should be highlighted in this forum. Tax collection has improved year after year. Tax collection - it has emphasized the minister - grows at rates more than 5%, the SMEs are collecting VAT at a rate more than 12% and they are increasing the split payments at a higher rate - Mr Montoro has said today - to 16%, and all this is a reflection of the dynamism of economic activity and of the dynamism in the creation of employment. But in addition to lowering taxes, it is achieving spectacular results in the fight against fraud, and that is why we should congratulate all the groups in this House, because those results are for the benefit of society as a whole. Year after year, the Tax Agency has also improved its human resources, with regular and extraordinary public employment offers in 2014 and 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, the main feature of the Ministry of Finance's expenditure budget is the containment of expenditure, in order to achieve that essential objective of our economic policy, which is to reduce the public deficit and public debt. Our philosophy is that spending more doesn't mean getting better results. That may be socialist philosophy, but it is certainly not ours. As for territorial financing, I am not going to repeat the debate that my colleague Juanjo Matarí brilliantly defended yesterday, but I will tell you that in these General State Budgets we increase the financing of our territorial entities by 11% and that local entities...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u58	Mrs. Madrazo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u59	... they also increase their funding - I'm finishing, Madam President - by 3,1 %. Therefore - I conclude - we are going to reject the amendments tabled by the opposition groups. We will vote in favour of these budgets because they are decisive for continuing to drive a profound transformation of our public administrations and because they continue to bet on strengthening the fight against fraud. The commitment of the People's Party Government by approving these budgets is to consolidate growth and job creation so that all Spaniards can continue to be taxed. That is why the Government has the full support of the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Madrazo. We have started the debate on section 13, Justice. For the presentation of this section, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the second budgets that I have brought to this House - as I had the opportunity to do last year - and I do so with the satisfaction of being able to present a budget forecast that for justice policy will grow again in the forecast for 2016. I believe that when the resources put in the service of justice are increased it is good news for all. It is good news for the Administration of Justice, no doubt, but it is also good news for citizens, for legal operators and for the whole of Spanish society. Even, without the spirit of grandiloquence, it is good for Spain, because the more our legal certainty is strengthened - what is done with this budget - the more value incorporates the brand Spain and, therefore, the more we are enhancing our ability to attract investors, to generate trust for entrepreneurs and to compete with the rest of the world's economies. Section 13, Justice For the purposes of budget submission, I would focus on three main elements. First of all, as I said to you, this is the second year that the budget of the Ministry of Justice, of the function of justice, is growing again, and it also does so in a relevant way. If the budget is approved in the terms presented by the Government, we will go to 7.24% increase. Therefore, we will be receiving a very significant increase in our 2016 allocations; 106 million euros for justice and, therefore, in absolute terms, is a very significant increase. Secondly, not only how much, that 106 million euros, that 7.24% increase, but where; what are we going to do with that increase? They are the most important sections, because there will be no increase in current expenditure, on the contrary, there will be a decrease of 1.7% thanks to savings in operating costs or in leases and transport, and there will be an increase, for example, in investments; nothing less than 26% which will be allocated in its entirety to technological modernisation and the improvement of judicial infrastructures. Therefore, it is not that the budget grows, it is that, moreover, it grows where justice needs it most. Then I'll stop for something else in these figures. Thirdly, the third of the ideas also has to do with a very relevant qualitative aspect, which is the social function, the role which with this budget will be strengthened by increasing by 5.9% the resources allocated to areas of special sensitivity to the citizen, such as free legal aid or support for victims of crime. Therefore, more resources for justice, more resources where they need to be, and more resources to bring justice closer to those who need it most. All this, of course, in the context of the budgetary lines marked by the Government for the year 2016, which have to do with supporting the growth of the Spanish economy and the creation of jobs; returning to public employees part of the effort they have made during these years; maintaining the welfare state by increasing social spending; and, finally, enhancing the good results of structural reform policies undertaken during this legislature and in which, in the case of justice, there has also been an important package of reforms that are supported through financial measures. From these bases, shared with the entire Government, we will ensure that the budgets for 2016 reinforce the pillars of rapid justice, an agile and efficient justice that guarantees the rights and freedoms of citizens; a justice that is solidarity and committed to the social value, which is always close to the victims, with whom they need specialized care, with whom they do not have sufficient resources and therefore deserve special protection; a digital justice, a justice without paper; a transparent justice, with more and better human resources, with more and better material resources and with more and better technological resources. That is the meaning and for what of the nearly EUR 1,578 million foreseen in the Ministry of Justice's 2016 expenditure budget. Not only does that figure increase by 7.24% compared to 2015, but if we add up to the resources that, since section 31, are incorporated into the Ministry of Justice as a result of the salary improvements of our staff, it is almost EUR 52 million as a result of salary improvements, we would be talking about a final allocation of almost EUR 1,630 million, which makes it clear - as I say - that we are the budget section that is going to grow the most in 2016 among all the ministries with competence in essential services. Entering into its distribution by chapters in a very succinct way, the staff expenditure chapter grows by 85 million euros, almost 7 %, to reach 1,303 million euros. As I was telling you, a justice with more human resources, for which 100 new judges and prosecutors will be incorporated and the job offer for 2016 will again incorporate, as it has already done in 2015, more than 2,000 places for the different bodies of the Administration of Justice. We will therefore strengthen our courts, courts and prosecutions with trained and qualified personnel. The chapter on current transfers will also grow by 7% -EUR 3.3 million in absolute terms - and therefore we will allocate EUR 56 million to key social and justice management policies, because we will increase grants for free legal aid and we will also increase resources for agreements with psychologists' colleges, which will allow us to improve and increase assistance to victims of crime and the realization of psychological expertise in judicial proceedings. Finally, a new appropriation of EUR 6 million is included in the 2016 draft budgets to, as we are doing this year, implement partnership agreements with the Autonomous Communities to work in coordination with the improvement of justice, the incorporation of new technologies and the provision of better material resources. To date we have already signed two agreements with the Autonomous Communities of Andalusia, Catalonia, Valencia, Cantabria or La Rioja, so we are already transferring resources for the Autonomous Communities to develop these types of projects. As I have told you, investment is also growing very significantly, almost 26%, slightly more in absolute terms of EUR 20 million than in the previous year. We will therefore go to a budget of EUR 98 million for investment expenditure which is basically aimed at two objectives: on the one hand, technological modernisation and, on the other, the improvement of infrastructure. With regard to technological modernisation, we will devote our efforts to improving registers, thanks to the 11 million investments planned for this, and to accelerating the intensification of justice in digital environments. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that in this area there is no other way than to advance in digital justice, network justice, paperless justice and innovative justice. With €65 million in budget earmarked for this item, I am sure that we will be able to make significant progress during 2016. The second of the investment lines has to do with the judicial headquarters, with the Infrastructure and Equipment Plan. In 2016, loans will grow again by EUR 19.4 million, an additional 4%, therefore, all the investment actions that are being carried out will either continue or increase. New construction works in judicial buildings, such as Badajoz, Guadalajara, Albacete, Segovia, Valladolid and Lorca; and rehabilitation and improvement works in Palencia, Ceuta, Soria or Trujillo. Likewise, we will continue with the financing of the construction and endowment of the justice building in Logroño, La Rioja, and for this will be allocated 3.7 million euros. I would also like to highlight a qualitative but very unique aspect, and therefore very important, that has to do with the renovation and modernization of the technological equipment of the National Institute of Toxicology, one of those very qualitative and unique institutions within our Administration of Justice, which will allow you to have state-of-the-art technologically advanced material: new electronic scanning microscopes with microanalysis systems for the service of forensics, new gas chromatographs and mass spectrometers for the service of chemicals and drugs, key in the analysis of drug or alcohol wickets, or new DNA sequerators, based on the identification of deceased, disappearances, paternity or pederastia investigations. I am now finishing, very succinctly, with an analysis of the budgets of the agencies attached to the department. To this end, the Centre for Legal Studies, where the training of prosecutors, secretaries, forensics and all officials of the Administration of Justice is carried out, will increase its budget by 18% in order to intensify its initial training and continuous training. The General Judicial Mutuality will have 101 million euros, slightly more than 2% to continue its assistance and performance work to all its mutualists. And the Data Protection Agency, which, as you are well aware, has its own legal personality and full independence, will have almost EUR 14 million to carry out its functions under the Data Protection Act. Therefore, the sum of agencies assigned plus the 55 million euros with which section 8 gives to the General Council of the Judiciary, leads us to a total aggregate for the different units of the function of justice of 1,746 million euros, which means in total 111 million euros more than the previous year and a close increase, the aggregate, to 7 %. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to finish my speech by pointing out that this budget is certainly a material element, a financial element that helps us to do our job better, but that work is certainly done thanks to the service of all justice professionals: judges, prosecutors, secretaries, civil servants, all legal professionals - lawyers, prosecutors, social graduates - more than 226,000 workers who have allowed us to get here, to achieve a state of reform and to intensify the quality of our justice, in which there is certainly much to be done. I therefore trust that the 2016 budgets will bring us closer to that goal, to a goal of continuous and permanent reform of our administration of justice, a justice that will have sufficient financial resources to address all the challenges ahead. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u62	Thank you, Minister. We shall start the defence round of the amendments. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Although the Minister's speech has been much more moderated, the triumphal tone of his speech has dropped somewhat, this morning listening to Mrs Santamaría, Mrs Báñez or Mr Montoro had reasonable doubts as to whether we were in the budget debate or in an election rally of the People's Party, honestly. With the agreement of the Joint Group and the Bureau, I support all the amendments of the Joint Group in this section, and I will have to discuss the justice amendments and all the others, Minister, by this format of debate. I was at a press conference this week presenting the amendments and I thought I would call them the old ones, because we have been presenting the same amendments for five years, but they never pass the filter of the People's Party year after year, budget after budget. The People's Party has turned this debate into a pure process, into a pediment, into a wall. The groups have tabled 4,326 amendments, but only those of the People's Party have passed, 4,200 amendments have gone straight to waste. Sometimes someone asks me about the futility of submitting amendments to the budgets knowing beforehand that they are going to be rejected, that they are going to be rejected, but I think it is important to submit amendments because as a Valencian I want to do two things. First, denounce the systematic marginalization that budgets make with Valencians. Secondly, to denounce the uselessness of the Valencian People's Party; I do not know whether it has tabled any amendments or whether they have approved them, but it is true that in these four years nothing has been noticed. If we talk about marginalization - before some illustrious Member calls us tears to all those who come from the periphery to talk about budgets - let us talk about figures, the figures do not deceive. The Valencians are almost 11% of the population, specifically 10.8%, and this year - with the People's Party pulling out - we received 8% of the investment, almost 3 points less. 879 million will be invested the place of the 1,180 that would belong to us if we were in the Spanish average. It adds up and continues because, of course, if it's a year you can understand but if it's year after year... Last year 4.5 points less, the previous 6 points less. And when we hear that they will be invested we think that they will be invested or not because, on top of it, the People's Party cheats. It swells these investment budgets in Valencian territory with 211 million that have not been implemented this year and that should have been implemented. It's not 800 million, it's 600 million. Therefore, poorly financed and with bad investments because we are 8 points below the average. I'm not saying it, it was said this morning by a person so unsuspecting of sharing sympathies with me as Mrs. Díez. We are poorer than the average 12 points and above they punish us with less investment and less funding. This is Mr Rajoy's way of putting an end to discrimination against Valencians. I am waiting for Mr Rajoy to return to the bullring of Valencia and tell us that so helped that when he governs the People's Party or if he re-rules the People's Party discrimination will end. We'll see about that. We are checking how discrimination with the People's Party and with Mariano Rajoy ends. We have tabled 310 amendments which seek to cover the whole of Valencia, amendments not to further distance ourselves from the average, which we have divided into four major blocs: infrastructure, industry and research, agriculture and the environment and cultural infrastructure. In infrastructures, of course, intended for roads and connections with ports and airports, with the AP-7 and with trains close by on the lines of Gandía-Oliva-Denia, Castelló-Vinaròs or Xàtiva-Alcoi-Alacant. In industry and research aimed at aiding the traditional Valencian industry or the internationalisation of Valencian companies or the Prince Felipe Research Centre which you have abandoned. In agriculture, intended for the regeneration of beaches and coastal systems in pests such as the red picket, the Mediterranean fly or the tiger mosquito; in the prevention of rivers or in the adaptation of ravines, such as the ravine of the Carraixet, a dump that is now and that we want to turn into a green road. In cultural infrastructures I will give you only one data: the IVAM, the Valencian Institute of Modern Art, receives 170,000 euros; the Reina Sofia, 36 million -200 times more -; the Thyssen, 6 million -35 times more -; the MNAC, the National Art Museum of Catalonia, 2 million -12 times more -. The VATM 170,000 euros. Something's going on. I repeat, we have tabled 310 amendments worth 1.4 billion investments in Valencian territory. The Valencian People's Party, with twenty defendants, I don't know if it has done any because I think they are delighted with budgets that insult us as a people and sometimes I don't know who they represent, whether their party or the citizens of Alicante, Castelló or Valencia. The economic spokesman for the People's Party, Mr Martínez-Pujalte, regretted that all the opposition's amendments meant more money, which was impossible. If you had invested the Spanish average in your five budgets, all the amendments that Compromis puts forward, the 310, would have been made. Therefore, that is not impossible. That is possible and it would also be fair. [[The Lord]] If I had a little dignity, what the Valencian People's Party should do is to approve these amendments that want to repair an unfair distribution of the five budgets that the People's Party has made for all Valencians and Valencians. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy to defend its amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u65	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, our Parliamentary Group, the Progressive Union and Democracy, is presenting an amendment to this whole section calling for it to be returned, and therefore from the budget, as well as a number of partial amendments. Since this is a political debate, although it does not seem so now that we are pecking and talking about very particular things and although I know from the outset that it has no media impact, I believe that it is my duty, as a member of a party that has the duty to control and promote the action of the Government, to use my turn to make a reflection of a political and general nature. Minister, you have started your speech by recalling that it is your second budget. Yes, it's your second budget, but it's the government's fifth budget and in that you're still exactly the same as your predecessor and, therefore, your budget exactly the same as the budgets presented in this matter by the People's Party government to which you belong. This is one more budget to dismantle and privatize justice; one more, like everything you have done throughout this legislature. It is, if I may say the colloquial expression a little catalanized - not by the circumstance but because it is the one that goes to it - that is more than the most, more than the government budget and more than the budget of the Ministry of Justice. You have said in your speech that this budget strengthens legal certainty. What do you say, man? If all the laws they have done in the legislature, depending on their department, have done just the opposite: give the Spaniards greater legal uncertainty. And you say that this budget strengthens legal certainty? The operators of justice who may be listening to us - I don't know if there is anyone who listens to us or listens to us alone and not even -, if they just kept the letter of what you said, they would take their hands to their heads: it strengthens legal certainty. He has said some tremendous things; for example, he has started to qualify what justice is in Spain, in your opinion, thanks to this budget. She said she's innovative, agile and supportive. Is it a solidarity justice a privatized justice throughout the laws that you have imposed in this legislature, which maintains the rates of SMEs, not the private ones anymore? Is that a solidarity justice? It is not a justice with free access, you know it is not; fees do not guarantee free access to justice at all, even though they sold them to us as such. Is justice better endowed and therefore more agile from the point of view of human resources? Do you know, Minister, that in August, as the rate of murder of women for gender-based violence increased, there were many closed courts because there were no substitutes? You know that, don't you? Is that an agile, supportive, professional, well-endowed justice? You cannot presume what a disaster is in terms of the objective provision of services to citizens and none of the items you have pointed out from these budgets solves these specific and specific problems that ultimately all together define how justice works in Spain or how justice does not work in Spain. We have tabled a whole amendment and a series of partial amendments and let me tell you what is really important. Even if you solved in these budgets - which, I insist, do not solve - the disappearance of the eight procedural management systems that exist, the problems of lack of connectivity, the problems of lack of replacement of the places, the problems of lack of sufficient economic and human resources, even if you solved everything with these budgets - which, I insist, do not solve - you would not solve the main problem that justice has in Spain and that is that it is a politicized justice. Let us understand ourselves, minister, in a country where justice is politicized, democracy is written in quotes, and that is the main problem of justice in Spain, which is politicized, controlled by the power of turn. As long as we do not solve this problem, we will not solve any of the others, even if you would have undertaken to solve it with the necessary material and human means, which do not bring them into this budget either. Within the terms you have used in adjectivating justice you have said that justice is digital justice. Digital because they name them by finger, it's the only thing that's digital, because systems are incompatible between the autonomous communities. You know that the digital system is one of the problems since there is no connectivity because the systems are not compatible. And he calls it digital justice! Named to the finger! I mean, they're presumptuous of that. Minister, as long as there is a justice in Spain that is politicized and not independent, as long as there is justice absolutely at the service of the powerful, as long as there is justice of first and second, and that has prosecuted vip and others who are not, as long as that continues to happen because there is no political will to end it, as long as the General Council of the Judiciary continues to distribute it as it is distributed, and from there everything else, it cannot be said that in Spain there is justice at the service of the citizens. It cannot be said, and if it were said, that justice in Spain exists to fulfill what the Constitution says: that all Spaniards have the right to an independent judge and agile justice. Because if it is not agile and is not independent, it is neither justice nor democracy. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, your speech has been characterized by a triumphalist tone, an almost pre-electoral rally tone in which the Government has turned this debate on the General Budgets of the State, mainly based on the growth of the 2016 budget compared to the 2015 budget. But you don't have to look at the 2016 budget - which is a desideratum that will run another government in any case - only in relation to 2015, but you have to compare it in relation to the whole of the legislature, and of course, when you look at the whole of the legislature and see the cuts, the systematic hacks that the People's Party government has provided to the State's General Budgets in the 2012, 2013 and 2014 budgets, ending up comparing it to the 2015 budget is much less triumphalistic than the tone you have used. And it is less bad that his intervention has not gone wrong where the text of the General Budgets of the State has gone in many other speeches talking about the call to consensus and to agreement with the parliamentary groups, because if for something has been characterized the action of this Government in its department and specifically under its mandate and that of its predecessor it has been precisely because of the lack of consensus, the imposition of the option and the opinion of the Government and the positioning at the end faced not only the parliamentary groups, but also the professional organizations, trade unions and so on. These budgets, no matter how much the Government strives to sell us growth, are clearly insufficient budgets for sufficient, necessary and adequate development for the Spanish justice society. As other speakers who have spoken before me have said, I repeat the same thing: they contribute to privatization, they have put particular interests before the general interests, they strengthen a justice that is slow, it is not a justice that is agile. That is why we do not share them and we have tabled an amendment to this whole section and certain partial amendments which seek to increase certain specific issues for the overall improvement of justice. We understand that they do not have sufficient resources for the in-depth reform required by the Administration of Justice, a reform that is still pending and that we hope that it can be implemented in the coming legislatures. It is an insufficient endowment for an issue that is fundamental to us, as is the sufficient endowment of the Judicial Office. The new judicial map is also pending in this legislature. You, in practice - it is seen throughout the legislature - have frozen the justice budget, you have ultimately frozen your political initiative and you have maintained a privatising bet. I would like to dwell specifically on the issue of judicial fees, which has been one of the central elements of this legislature, a Tax Act that from my parliamentary group we demand to be totally repealed because we understand that the objective with which you presented it is that it would be used to cover free legal aid, in the development of the budgets itself we see how the collection is much higher than the cost of free legal aid. In addition, there is a law that is still pending in this house and that seems to be that it will not finally be processed because before the end of the legislature, but what you sold in that law that it was to cover free justice, has finally not served that, but for what we denounced, which is a greater desire to collect, to increase public revenue. We believe that free justice does not have to have the benefit-oriented or beneficent benefit-oriented objective that this Government has to give it, but has to have another character of true, consolidated citizen-right that ensures that, regardless of the income and property we have, we are truly entitled, as the Constitution says, to equal treatment before the justice system. As far as equipment and infrastructure are concerned, you, Minister, have derailed investments in certain courts and so on and I must say that some of them are continuing to go on for ever. They are the same as in the 2015 budgets, with which we do not know exactly the virtuality, the reality of those infrastructures where they will be directed. He has also successfully sold the heading for the modernisation of the Justice Administration, the zero-paper target, but believe me that from my parliamentary group we believe that this amount, almost EUR 80 million, is absolutely insufficient to achieve that zero-paper target and to pool certain databases and ruptures within the justice system. With regard to the Civil Registry, the investment in a dynamic of privatization of the registers continues, its conduct has now been transferred, but its Government continues with budgets providing policies that we do not share, that dynamic of privatization of the records. I'm done. With regard to the amendment of the whole and the places, we have tabled a specific amendment to the article stating that the maximum of 100 places in the judicial and fiscal career is absolutely insufficient and we propose to triple it. The ultimate goal would be to get closer to the average number of judges who have other countries in the European Union, to register with other countries and to reduce that workload module, which is at an inexhaustible level. Furthermore, we understand that these budgets do not solve the problems of temporary staff who have been in potential jobs or provide solutions to substitutions and, of course, it is insufficient after the freezing that has taken place recently. We have also tabled some specific and specific amendments to the budgets of section 13 in which I would like to stop specifically because it has also been moved and has given rise to debate in two parts of the budget, in the case of the Vice-President of the Government and here in Finance, in order to provide important economic means for the historical memory of the dignification and exhumation of the victims in the mass graves; victims who, despite what one of the spokesmen of the Group of the European People's Party said this morning in the rostrum, are not on two sides. They are only victims of one side, unfortunately, in the coves and mass graves of this country, and it is time to end it. This must be done definitively, and that is why we have tabled these two amendments. We have also tabled other specific amendments to give more resources to family courts; juvenile courts; supervisory courts; shift of office; peace courts, which still have an important role, despite their questioning in certain areas; the modernisation of justice and, above all, and we are very concerned about the need for the new judicial office to have a sufficient budget to truly modernise justice, a goal that we would all share, but which we understand that with these budgets that you present for the year 2016, it is absolutely guaranteed and that is why we call for their return and we will vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. The Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d'Unió has the floor, first of all, Mr Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we have tabled an amendment to return Section 13, Ministry of Justice, and the reason is easy to understand. In the year 2015 has been passed - will be passed in a few days - about twenty laws in the field of justice. With regard to the autonomous communities with delegated powers in the field of justice, these budgets do not provide for any budget or transfer to meet the new costs of these reforms approved by the General Courts, which will entail, Minister, a significant cost, in this case for the Generalitat de Catalunya, which has delegated competence in the field of justice. By the principle of institutional loyalty provided for in the Lofca, this should be taken into account, and budgets do not take this into account. Institutional loyalty. I'll give you another example. The estimated revenue for tax collection during 2016 is estimated at EUR 263 million. In principle, these are rates linked to free assistance, and there is no transfer to or from the autonomous communities of the $263 million to meet the free justice system. The budgets only provide for EUR 6 million for transfers to the Autonomous Communities in the reform programme of the Administration of Justice, a very small and insufficient amount both to cover the expenditure incurred by the Autonomous Communities which have delegated powers in the field of free justice and for all those increases in expenditure which entail this twenty-year legal amendments to be approved this year. In line with this reasoning, we have tabled an amendment with a budget allocation of EUR 55 million for the transfer to the Generalitat de Catalunya for the costs of free justice in the Administration of Justice. There is another flagrant case, Minister, which my group has been demanding for a long time, such as the interests of judicial appropriations, which knows very well that they are intended solely for the administration of the State and that they are not transferred to the autonomous communities with competence in the administration of justice. If we have delegated powers in the field of the administration of justice, it would be fair to transfer to those autonomous communities for the interests of judicial appropriations. Therefore, Minister, institutional and budgetary loyalty. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. I now give the floor to Mrs Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, to the grievances that my colleague from the Democratic Union has enumerated, I would like to add others, because I am not going to repeat what my colleague has said and I subscribe exactly. I will tell you about the endemic deficit that Catalonia - Catalonia and other autonomous communities - have, for example, to cover the places of judges and magistrates. You know, Minister, that good justice is one that can provide good service, and good service, apart from modernization that you want to tackle with insufficient resources, needs professionals to be able to do your job. We have been demanding secularly from Catalonia that the vacancies of judges and magistrates be filled. Not only did we ask for that, but we also asked him to allow us to make a special call to cover the temporary places in Catalonia. We ask you to let us do that, because Catalonia can and must have good justice, and by calling for temporary places and providing them the budget line is increased by zero euros since it is already a benefit that is being carried out by professionals who are developing their services. This would promote people's stability, the quality of justice and avoid mobility. Becaused knows what's going on? That if no squares are covered and it is played with the interinage it may happen that judicial filibusterisms are allowed. I'll explain. You have spent three years systematically blocking the investments needed to make the Mediterranean corridor and this past year you have been able to do so thanks to this lack of temporary places by doing judicial administrative filibusterism, which has allowed you to defend Mr Bárcenas. Is that why the squares aren't covered? Is that why you leave interims as interims? We ask you from Catalonia to put an end to this situation of provisionality. Moreover, this is not a good presentation of the Spanish brand, Minister. A good justice is that which must give legal certainty. I want to talk to you at this point about something that seems alarming to us, and that is that no action has been taken to prevent the leaking of summary secrets. This is not a quality justice. Avoid filtering actions, data that are under summary secrecy, should be the main concern of your department. In these budgets we see no endowment to try to end this evil endemic of Spanish justice, which are the judicial leaks. This time they have completely affected the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. What are you going to do about it? Are you planning to do some kind of investigation to find out who - the prosecutor's office, the judiciary or the Civil Guard - leaked that they were going to take legal action at the CatDem Catalanist Foundation and at the headquarters of our party? I could only get out of there, and it seems to us that this is very serious. Two of the three possible sources depend on the Government, and one specifically on the Ministry of Justice. What do you plan to do to find out who leaked it? And not only leak the information that there would be records, but later in the press data has been published that theoretically - we have to believe because the press says so - were collected from the headquarters of Democratic Convergence. Don't you think that's serious? Don't you think that directly attacks the brand Spain and the quality of justice? In no way do the justiciable understand that Spanish justice is neither swift nor effective. This does not contribute to economic recovery and, above all, violates the constitutional principles of the right to effective judicial protection, the right to a fair trial and the right to honour and privacy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Socialist Group, Mr Martín Peré has the floor to table his amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u73	Mr Catalá, as you can see, I have come up to this rostrum with a series of documents on which I will theoretically base my intervention, but I have to tell you that I probably did not need the same ones because I believe that any person, any citizen who is related to the world of justice or to the administration of justice would have very clearly the speech that has to be made from this rostrum before the General Budgets of the State for the matter, that one more year they replenish it in an insufficient way in a budget exercise that again affects the same previous mistakes. The first thing I would have to tell you is that there is one issue that really draws my attention to, and you have also not been able to ignore that semantic error, and that is that you have alluded to these 2016 budgets being the budgets of recovery. Do you know what's going on? That in 2015 they also said they were the recovery budgets, and in 2014 too. I was wondering what the problem is, because here there is an error or an inconsistency. Then I understand that every year are the budgets of the recovery of your own budgets with which you have punished us the previous year. That's why they say every year we're recovering, but it's about the damage you guys do with your budget exercises. For example, in justice they get out of the way saying that the departure has been increased in a way - you believe - more than enough, but these General Budgets of the State for the year 2016 are 100 million euros lower than those that in the year 2011 we allocated the socialists in our last year of government. If that is the case, or the sore recovery is not as certain as you believe or what happens is that justice is not really a priority for the People's Party government. I think it's probably both. On the other hand, as has already happened in previous exercises and as the spokesman for Justice Don Julio Villarrubia and Rosa Aguilar told him very well in his day, you perform a trick of prestidigitation with the numbers in Justice, but as soon as a little light is shed it becomes evident that it is a cheap trick of magic because you do not resist any logical comparison. For example, you have been saying - you said it in your speech and the Secretary of State for Justice and the Undersecretary also said it at the time - that you are making an important effort to provide the Justice Administration with sufficient places for judges, prosecutors and other staff. Specifically in these budgets they say they will provide 100 places, but the question I ask myself is: what are those 100 places compared to the more than 1,500 substitute judges and prosecutors that you eliminated with Organic Law 8/2012? Can these 100 places be compared with those 1,500 posts which made 30 per cent of judgments in the field of justice and accounted for 20 per cent of the courts and prosecutors? Can they be compared? Do you think that with those hundred squares you can cover such a hole? We believe that no, and that is precisely why we have called for an increase in the number of places. The same applies to the technological modernization of justice. You have quoted us the EUR 65 million in the 2016 budget for technological modernisation, but these figures pale in the face of the more than EUR 200 million that every year the socialist government budgeted with its Plan for the Modernisation of Justice. That is why we also ask you to increase the game. We believe that we have a legitimate right to claim it because we certainly intended far more substantial departures than you do. The same applies to fees for the exercise of jurisdictional authority. There's even something more curious going on here. You boast of having eliminated the fees for natural persons as if it were little less than a triumph of reason. But if those rates for natural persons were introduced by you! How can you boast of correcting a mistake that you yourselves made? In addition, they are inconclusive in this regard, because they continue to apply them to SMEs, NGOs and cooperatives. It is certainly an insult to intelligence that you intend to justify still applying the fees to those entities when you have no reason to be. That is why we also call for an amendment to eliminate them. Since we are quoting the fees and talking about what you are collecting with them, if in the beginning the amount collected by them had to go to finance the benefit of free justice - although this debate has already been overtaken - why are you opposed to the heading we allocate for the payment of late remuneration to lawyers and prosecutors at the office shift? Why have you not sent a single euro to the autonomous communities that have shared the competence of justice in this area? It's something we don't understand either. I'm done with my surgery. I am well aware that the damage you have done to the administration of justice during this parliamentary term is not solved by just a few amendments. It will cost us a lot of work and a lot of time to be able to restore justice in this country to the situation it deserves, but I will use it to make a personal confession, as this is probably my last intervention as a Member. Right now I have a two-year-old son who obviously doesn't know anything about the speeches and debates we have here, but I would like him to follow my tradition in the future - just as I did with my father - and, if he wants, be a lawyer and be in our world of the administration of justice. When he can already talk about these issues and ask me what the Socialists did when we were in the government or when I was as a parliamentarian in the world of justice, I will no doubt tell him that when we were in government we allocated budgets that were much more responsive to the needs and I will tell him that when we were in the opposition, as in my last legislature, the Socialists always opposed the progressive privatization of the Justice Administration as an essential public service. I will tell you that we have always opposed the introduction of barriers and barriers to the application of effective judicial guardianship, and with great pride I will be able to tell my son that the Socialists have opposed supporting budgets that in the 21st century have the shame of supporting the introduction of life imprisonment, although probably when I explained all that will be history because we have already eliminated it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Martín Peré. He's been a great congressman and I wish him the best. Thank you very much. Mr Castillo has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u75	With venial, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when the budgets for 2016 offer a magnificent image of that Spain which has once again competed, grown and generated confidence; when the budget we are debating for Justice comes back for the second year in a row to experience a significant increase compared to previous years, increasing by 7.2%; when this budgetary growth takes place practically in all the Ministry's programmes of action; when the offer of public employment is considerably strengthened, with an ambitious call for more than 2,000 new places for the bodies of the Administration of Justice; in short, when we speak of more means, more human and material resources and other infrastructures and technological endowments, it is clear that some will be able to disagree on many other issues but in no way will be able to defend with rigour that justice is not or has been one of the main priorities of this government in this legislature. Yes, Mr Martín, these budgets, like last year's ones, are the budgets for economic recovery but also for the recovery of citizens' confidence. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to allow me at this stage of the debate not to go into disaggregating once again the large figures in this budget because, following the detailed intervention of the Minister of Justice and the two previous debates in the Commission, I believe that these figures have been sufficiently explained and explained. Therefore, in a context in which it is only a few weeks before the end of this parliamentary term - which we can describe as one of the most complex but also of the most fruitful, serious and responsible - I believe that it is necessary to look back to see the way forward. As Shakespeare said, the past is a prologue. This has been understood by some groups, taking advantage of the debate to take stock of the closure of the legislature, and I join in. In this sense, and as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has also wanted to go in and make comparisons, they will allow me to offer you some data. I will start by reminding you that while the last Justice budget of the Socialist Government's legislature fell by almost 7%, this legislature ends with an increase of more than 7%. I will continue to point out that the year 2010, when there was a greater budget allocation for Justice with more than EUR 1.7 billion - which is what Mr Martín will say to his son - was the year - this I will tell my son - when the highest rate of budget failure occurred, namely 94%, as the Undersecretary recalled at her appearance. That's how you did and executed your budgets. Despite this data and to be generous, I will not deny you the investment effort made by the previous Government, because the truth is that your problem was not of will but of success. They didn't know we were all waiting. I know they don't like to be reminded, but the reality is that the Socialist Justice project was limited to spending huge amounts of money on an exhausted model, without taking measures to rationalize spending, without structural reforms, without procedural reforms and without a system of procedural management that, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, had not even begun to develop. A management disaster that cost us millions of euros. As you learn from both good experiences and negatives, I believe that the conclusion is obvious, reality and facts show that it is not the same thing that they govern one or the other. Posts to make memories and comparisons on budgetary allocations, rationalization of expenditure and structural and procedural reforms, we can also recall the dazzling Modernizing Plan of Socialist Justice planned for the period 2009-2012. It was a plan endowed with an amount close to 388 million euros, with a total of one hundred and forty-seven different actions that, for the most part, remained only in good wishes and intentions. In this plan, the Socialist Government marked as the first axis of its action a quality public service to provide the Administration of Justice with an adequate organization, improving the rationalization of the resources available through a change in the judicial organization. Did the socialist government comply with it? No, no, Has the People's Party government done that? Yeah. How? Through the reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary, which incorporates a comprehensive package of measures to improve the organization of justice, reducing response times, allowing a better sharing of workloads and obtaining greater specialization from judicial bodies. Another axis of this socialist modernization plan was that of technologically advanced justice that sought to facilitate access to judicial information for citizens and professionals, as well as to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the Administration of Justice, promoting communication among legal operators. Did the socialist government comply with it? No, no, Has the People's Party government done that? Yeah. How? Reforming the Civil Prosecutions Act to accelerate the use of new technologies and telematics, speeding up and simplifying judicial notifications and ensuring that, from 1 January 2016, legal professionals and judicial bodies use telematics in all their communication acts. This, ladies and gentlemen, is to bet on technologically advanced justice. Socialists, your Strategic Plan for the Modernisation of Justice 2009-2012 marked another equally unfulfilled priority for you, namely a people-oriented public service. In order to achieve this objective, they intended to submit proposals for reform of the Criminal Procedure Act and simplify judicial proceedings. Did the socialist government comply? No: neither did they reform the Criminal Procedure Act nor simplify judicial proceedings. Has the People's Party government done that? Yes, among other measures, by promoting the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act with proposals that will undoubtedly allow the speeding up of criminal proceedings. So I could go on with each and every one of your unfulfilled proposals, reflecting budgets that the Socialist Government was unable to implement, but I have no time for more. I'm done. This has been a legislature where concrete solutions to specific problems have been offered. That was our great challenge, that of this Government and that of the People's Parliamentary Group. Now the challenge, that of all, is that we know how to look to the future by responsibly addressing this latest proposal. Minister, I would like to reiterate my thanks to you, which is the thanks of the People's Parliamentary Group, for your speech, for the explanations you have given us, and for your commitment and your work, that of you and that of your entire team, which you have been able to develop at a particularly complex time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Castillo. Debate on Section 20, Industry, Energy and Tourism. The Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appear to defend the general lines of the State's general budgets. Section 20, Industry, Energy and Tourism, under Section 20, Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism. The context in which these budgets are developed is one of growth, in the face of the context of recession that existed at the beginning of this legislature. It is a context of job generation in the face of the process of job destruction that took place until last year. And it is a context of growth in the industrial sector, also of correcting the basic imbalances and deficits of the Spanish economy: public deficit, external deficit, deficit in the electricity system. On the other hand, we have seen a strong momentum in the tourism sector in Spain, one of the engines of economic growth, and also greater investment in the digital economy, in general, and particularly in telecommunications. There is therefore a clear recovery, a sustainable recovery; whether or not it is irreversible will depend on the maintenance of the sign of economic policy. In any case, it has generated greater credibility and confidence in the rest of the world. Today, the only shadow on the horizon is that there is a radical shift in the sign of economic policy that has been implemented throughout this legislature. The general lines of the State General Budgets for the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism are as follows. The total budget is EUR 7,269 million, which is a decrease - indeed - of 10,6 %, mainly in the non-financial budget. As far as this non-financial budget is concerned, it amounts to 4,889 million; it falls by 14,8 % on a number of issues. Firstly, it is no longer possible during 2016 to generate expenditure on resettlement, which amounted to EUR 280 million in this year, a process that is already successfully completed. Secondly, the last PIVE Plan that has been approved in this legislature dates to 31 December this year, although by that time it will not have completed everything available for this eighth PIVE Plan. Thirdly, there are €75 million in energy efficiency, which has already been provided for the 2015 Efficiency Plan. And finally, there is a significant decrease in the costs of the electricity system of EUR 323 million. All this is what makes this decrease in the ministry's non-financial budget by 14.8%. As far as the financial budget is concerned, it amounts to EUR 2,379, a decrease of 0,36 % - and therefore practically the same - and is mainly due to the decrease in the national land observation programme in order to comply with the schedule of payments, included in the agreement signed between the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism and the company Hisdesat for the financing of satellite known as PAZ. As far as the State Energy Secretariat is concerned, the budget amounts to EUR 4,226 million, which represents a decrease of 12.45 % and is mainly due to what I mentioned earlier: falling in the costs of the electricity system, falling in the allocations through the Institute for Diversification and Energy Saving and, also, to the energy efficiency programme which, I insist, has already been budgeted for 2015. As regards the Secretariat of State for Telecommunications and the Information Society, the budget amounts to EUR 797 million, which represents a 25 % drop, mainly due to the Digital Dividend Renewal Plan, which was successfully carried out during 2015. It is an expenditure that is already made, so we do not have to budget it for 2016 and therefore do not appear 273 million euros because they have already been spent this year. That's the reason for the decrease. With regard to this budget, we should highlight the development of the new General Telecommunications Act, which was adopted by a broad consensus in both Houses, approximately 95%, and I would like to thank the various parliamentary groups for their support. There is a new regulatory framework, new networks, new services, more investments. The fourth generation of mobile telephony has been deployed and, therefore, the new telecommunications framework is also being an engine of the economy. With regard to tourism, the total budget is EUR 313 million, which represents a slight increase of approximately 3%; in particular, 2.91 %. It must be borne in mind that this budget consolidates Spain's position. Thus, in terms of the tourist position in the world, we are the third country in the world in terms of the number of international visitors. Last year 65 million tourists visited us, and at the pace that the evolution of tourism is going this year, taking into account the good summer there has been, but also taking into account the winter season, we will probably be around 68 million tourists and therefore third in international tourism. I want to remember that in 2011 we were not the third but the fourth, but we are the second in terms of the total expenditure that these tourists make: the tourists who come to Spain spent last year 63 billion euros. In addition, and in relation to our competitors, we are the ones who have the most expenses per stay and per traveler. For an idea to be made, for an average stay in Spain the tourist spends approximately 880 euros, an amount that in France is 600 euros and approximately 700 euros in Italy. Therefore, third parties in visitors, second in expenses, but we have the number one place in the world ranking in terms of tourism competitiveness. What was the position we had four years ago in that global tourism competitiveness ranch? It wasn't number 1 but number 8. In 2013 we went from 8 to 4, and in 2015 for the first time Spain, touristically speaking, appears as the most competitive country in the world, and this not only has to do with the climate, the beaches, etc. - this is an indicator that takes place every two years by the World Economic Forum, and these are factors that are there, they are model data - but it has a lot to do with the importance that all public policies give to tourism policy, as well as the degree of digitization of the economy and what it can mean for digital tourism to incorporate digital development in Spain. It also has to do with the increase of sectors other than conventional ones, such as gastronomy, tourism of history, culture, architecture, shopping tourism, rural tourism, health tourism, and it has to do with security. Spain is one of the safest countries in the world, not only from the point of view of the tranquility in the streets of any city in Spain, but from the point of view that gives it the security of the National Health System managed by the autonomous communities. Therefore, this is a budget that follows a slight upward trend and will also serve to consolidate Spain's position as a tourist power in the world. I'll finally talk about the industry. Obviously the tourism sector is important, but we can not only live from tourism. In fact, with a few extraordinary years in the field of tourism in Spain and despite the fact that we are decreasing our unemployment rate, there is still 22% unemployment, so more industry is needed. As you know, since the beginning of the two-thousands of years the industrial sector had been losing weight within the gross domestic product, and the first time that there has been an inflection in this trend in the last fifteen years is in 2014, something that is not random. Behind there is a policy of macroeconomic stability without which industry can hardly advance, a policy of fiscal consolidation, a policy of structural reforms - there is labour reform, the reform of the financial system, the reform of the energy system - but there has also been an active industrial policy. Fortunately, many years ago in Spain, it was said that the best industrial policy was the one that did not exist. It is not true, the best industrial policy is not only the one that exists, but it also has to be an active industrial policy. That is what the Government has done since the beginning of this parliamentary term. How? First, different tools have been promoted and non-conventional financing tools promoted and strengthened. From the National Innovation Company, competitiveness plans and Reindus plans have been supported by specific industrial sectors, sectors that have a major tractor effect on the rest of the economy, such as automotive. This same morning, data were provided by the European Union on the evolution of car sales in the period January to August across Europe, and it turns out that in the face of growth in Europe between 6 and 7 %, Spain is growing to 22 % in that volume of sales. Behind is an active automotive policy that has made this sector again lead in terms of production, in terms of manufacturing, in terms of sales on the domestic market and also in terms of export. For this reason, the budget of the General Secretariat for Industry and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises is EUR 1,868 million, almost the same as this year, there is a slight increase of 0.26%. Finally, Mr President, I conclude by saying that these budgets consolidate the economic recovery in Spain, which is a clear and sustainable recovery. It is clear, because it is clear that where there was a recession four years ago, today the Spanish economy is growing, but it is not only growing but it is doing so twice the average rate that the rest of the euro area is growing. Moreover, there is recovery also because where there was during the four years of the last socialist legislature - years 2008 to 2011 - a destruction of 2,200 jobs per day - 3,400,000 jobs in the four years -, according to the data of the Labour Force Survey and the data of the unemployment recorded over the last twelve months, the process in which we are in is just the opposite. Employment is being created at approximately half a million jobs per year. If this economic policy in general and in particular industrial, tourism, energy and telecommunications policy persists, among other things, we are sure that in 2019 there will be 20 million people working again in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u78	Thank you very much, Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism. I think I understand the feeling of the plenary by thanking it for its conciseness. [[Laughter]] In defence of amendments, Mr Quevedo has the floor first of all for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u79	Minister, I join the President's applause, but if I had spent a little more time following some of the just amendments that we have been putting forward for five years by the Canarian nationalists, we would not have cared, I must tell you that too. This speech is part of - I must remind you again - an amendment to the totality formulated by the Canarian nationalists, by my colleague Ana Oramas, which expresses our discomfort with the whole of this budget. To the same extent, I must recall that, because of the particular distribution of time in the Joint Group, I must endorse the amendments to section 20 made by the combined forces of the Joint Group. With regard to the amendments tabled by New Canarias and the Canary Coalition under this heading, we have tabled sixteen amendments amounting to EUR 400 million. Since we do not think it is relevant to make a relationship of all this and point, we will make an effort to explain not necessarily those that have the most economic value but those that express more clearly the fairness of our demands. With regard to energy, we have raised the need to gradually replace the air power supply with the underground installation. This is a problem common to the whole State but we believe that in the Canary Islands - the minister knows it well - it has a huge impact, not only on visual matters, but also on pollution and human safety, an amendment of 30 million euros which we consider to be absolutely appropriate and reasonable to the real needs of the Archipelago. In the same line, in relation to energy on the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura, there is no need to explain the need to guarantee electricity supply in the interconnection that Lanzarote and Fuerteventura have. They know that we have not been at all in agreement with his Government's energy policy. We have seen as a counter-reform the reform that has been carried out over the years, we have harshly criticized the damage to alternative and renewable energies, which we believe are the future in the Canary Islands, but it is necessary to ensure this connection. That is why we have proposed EUR 20 million in our amendments. In relation to the industry there is one issue that is very important for the Canary Islands, although it is little money: water purification. Potabilizing plants are life itself for the people we live in the Canary Islands. There are islands where 100 per cent of the population depends on the potability of sea water. There are islands that would lose 95% of the population last morning if there was no potabilisation. We are talking about an absolutely relevant issue, but the amendment is quantitatively modest and this is the fifth time we have raised it. This is the need to establish a subsidy for the desalination of water in the Canary Islands by the reverse osmosis procedure of €7.5 million. This is an issue on which the representatives of the People's Party in the Canary Islands agree. We cannot understand the reason why it is not possible to apply an amendment that within the budget, if I am allowed the colloquial expression, is parrot chocolate. The same is true of the need to compensate for the increase in the cost of energy that has taken place in recent years, an amendment of EUR 250,000 which seems to us to be absolutely adjusted and reasonable. It also involves digital terrestrial television and the deployment of broadband technologies, as there is a serious injury to the competitiveness and implementation of new ICT technologies in the Archipelago that are absolutely crucial to our development. This is a matter in which we are an average of 15 points below the implementation with respect to the whole State. As I see that time passes very quickly, I will also have to increase my speed. As far as tourism is concerned, I have to remind you that tourism directly accounts for 30% of Canary GDP. As tourism can be interpreted as being related to holidays, in this case what is related to is the survival of the Archipelago. For that reason, we must remember that the 2010 Convention, which we formulated for the rehabilitation of public spaces and landscapes relating to mature tourist areas, needs to be re-edited. This is a subject in which our competitiveness and, therefore, our survival go largely to us. We tabled an amendment of EUR 50 million, which is not ex novo, but was already there. That is why we must insist on this idea. It is an absolutely strategic issue for the Canary Islands and we sincerely fail to understand why it is not accepted, because if it were an occurrence..., but it is to recover what already existed. In relation to the island of Gran Canaria - and in this regard the Tourism Rehabilitation Consortium of the South of Gran Canaria created in 2009, determining to intervene in an obsolete tourist space of enormous relevance - our amendment calls for EUR 1.4 million, a reasonable figure to start carrying out a task that is not a problem of beautification but of competitiveness. The same is true of the island of Tenerife; it is the same question related to the Consortium for the rehabilitation of the Port of the Cross, for which we propose to obtain the unsatisfied in 2015. It is a million euros for a tourist destination that is part of the history of tourism on the island of Tenerife; a tourist destination affected by obsolescence - like the previous one we have mentioned, that of Gran Canaria - with an imperative need for interinstitutional cooperation to really develop tasks that affect their competitiveness. In short, if you look at the minister, I have reminded him here of the amendments which are not the most expensive. There are quite more expensive ones, but in order not to waste time I have commented on the most symbolic ones. We trust that there will be an opportunity for them to reflect on and respond to some of the demands that we have already made five years ago, in our view, with absolute responsibility and justice. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. It is quite strange this debate that we are having because it is not. This debate on the fifth budgets of this four-year term is already being held; I do not know whether it would be appropriate to propose that we should first vote and then debate those who have an interest, because at the end of the day the votes are already clearly distributed. That is why the debate in ministerial interventions is becoming electoral rallies, rather than information, reasoning and justification for why these budgets are who they are and how they are. Right now, the minister has given us an electoral rally in which he has pointed to the work of the government, in a really typical autobomb exercise, all the merits of the exit from the recession. Everything the government does is good, it produces jobs and wealth; everything that goes wrong is the fault of the opposition or of you to know who. The fundamental question is that this draft budget finances a model of state and economy, in this case, which is very difficult to share because they are the same model of state and economic policy that precisely played a fundamental role in the worsening of an international financial crisis, which in the case of Spain has been much deeper and worse than in other countries, especially in terms of social effects, due to the policies and functioning of the Spanish institutions. We have here General State Budgets that are continuistic. They are so much so that the Government does not even care to hide it; on the contrary, it presumes that. He assumes that thanks to these budgets we will continue to emerge from the crisis, as if the previous budgets were the ones that would have achieved that miracle. The fact is that that is why, Minister, you have made a continuous speech which, by the way, challenges the Spanish economy to a degree of maturity that will enable it to survive the various governments resulting from the elections. As you said, just like one of your cabinetmates, only if and nothing more than if the People's Party continues to rule Spain will emerge from the crisis and we will not again fall into recession. This is an assertion that it is an insult to Spain. It is a ridicule of our economic structure, our entrepreneurial capacity, the professional capacity of workers, etc. Only you - you alone, as I say - are the only ones called to return the economy to the path of growth, because what everyone else does, from voters in the elections to economic agents, will return us to recession. That said, his speech has not only been continuistic but also very conservative. It should be noted that, speaking of industry, for example, by pointing out important issues, it has hardly referred - I think none, but I may have escaped any; of course it was well hidden - to innovative sectors that are giving dynamism to the economy in the countries that have come out of the crisis and where jobs are being created but of quality. You have said that in a few years' time 20 million Spaniards will be working, but of course, if of those millions of Spaniards - I hope so - many of them have to settle for a work of a few hours a week that does not allow them to arrive at the end of the month with this new phenomenon of poor employment or of the poverty employed, we will not really have managed to get out of the crisis but simply to institutionalize a social inequality that in Spain has been galloping; social and territorial, but we will also talk about this in other chapters of these budgets. You have referred to industry and tourism as two pillars of the economy - quite true - but I return to the same thing. The Government's industrial policy precisely in the most innovative sectors is clear from its absence and has no reflection on these budgets. What happens to the digital industry, which is a basic and fundamental sector for the growth of GDP and quality employment, talent and employability of higher education in Spain? You haven't even referred to her. What happens to the push for SMEs and self-employed people to become larger companies and the latter to stop being the favorite tax haven in the worst working conditions in Europe? He has not said anything that is worth noting either. What happens to new entrepreneurs who in many cases prefer to start their business adventures outside Spain because here the tax treatment is the worst in Europe once again? Nothing, either. If that is what you think we are going to have an industrial development so that we can have the corresponding share of GDP and the European objectives again, it seems to me that we cannot agree with you. And what are we going to say about energy policy? Energy policy cannot be more continuous. He assumed the reduction in financial costs but did not say that they are largely transferred to invoices, including domestic ones. Spain is one of the few countries, not to say the only one, where not only the government opposes the development of self-consumption with or without a net balance with all kinds of tricks contradicting European policy itself, but also discourages the savings of individuals by making companies have been able to raise the rate of the hook-up bill as it has seemed to them, while the role of consumption in the final cost is diminishing, or another type of tax is imposed on renewable energy, which has basically to do with political continuism in energy. That is, we defend the oligopolistic business model that has made us a country with an extraordinary energy production capacity - in fact we have potential overcapacity - but with a lower demand, however prices continue to rise. For that reason and for other reasons - some of them you have cited, and they are picturesque - we cannot support these budgets. I'm going to quote at least two in the short time I have left. He has assumed the new Telecommunications Act, which my group did not support, among other things, because it has introduced a new digital and territorial divide in Spain. There will be areas - many - that will not have access to the 4G because the telecommunications companies with the new law do not have an obligation to give sufficient coverage to the whole territory, which will create differences and grievances between those who live in urbanized areas with 4G and those who will not be able to aspire to it; in fact they are already poorly attended to with the 3G that we currently have. It has also assumed that our progress in tourism - which is great and to be congratulated, which is apparently also a merit of the Government, which brings tourists personally - is because we are a very safe country. So what was the need - it is a reflection that we have already done several groups here when the so-called Mordaza Law was passed - to strengthen a security law if we are one of the countries that can boast of greater security? It is such a series of contradictions and things that are not sustained beyond an electoral discourse that, for those reasons, as I said, our group will neither support nor withdraw its amendments to this section of the general budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that the Government refuses to equip our country with an industrial model that, from respect for the environment, will contribute to a social and just solution to the crisis. The industry's gross value added represented 13.2 % of the economy's total gross value added in 2014 and 12 % of GDP in the manufacturing industry. In order to reverse this continuing loss of relative weight of Spanish industry in relation to the gross value added of our economy, it is necessary to translate industrial policy into a state policy, requesting the collaboration of all administrations and creating the conditions that allow business initiatives to be created and developed within a framework of certainty and transparency; however, the cross-cutting measures that have marked this legislature and that have been proposed will have a medium- and long-term impact on industry. We are talking about the devaluation of the quality of employment, which has meant labour reforms; the subordination of the financial sector to the interests of the European Central Bank or, as is the case, to the German bank, almost always contrary to the possibility of a powerful industrialization of Spain; the subordination of the energy sector to the speculative interests of energy companies, with the practical disappearance of any bet on renewable energies; and the so-called "Budgetary Stability Act", which presupposes any interest in a possible development of Spain to place us as a dependent territory in political and economic terms and, therefore, without the capacity to equip us with an industrial development that can compete with the dominant interests today in the European Union. It is clear that the economic branches that have most destroyed employment are the manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products; the manufacture of electrical equipment and equipment; the manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products; the manufacture of metal products; the textile and metallurgical industries; and the manufacture of iron, steel and ferro-alloy products. It is clear, therefore, that our country is denaturalized, that it is economically deindustrialized. We cannot talk about these budgets that have been raised as those that contribute to our country's industry and energy. The 2016 budgets will have 5,455 million euros, only 0.48% of the expected GDP and only 1.25% of the consolidated expenditure of the budgets. This policy that Minister Soria has just presented to us decreases by 9.5% compared to the budgeted in 2015. As we have pointed out, the abandonment of renewable energy and energy efficiency that do not have the budgetary treatment that is needed continues because everything depends on the profitability of the large energy companies that have marked the government's policy throughout the legislature. Sustainable mobility is not a priority for this Government when it has a social, environmental and economic impact that is not negligible and would allow us to reduce dependence on oil and CO2 emissions. The minister has told us about the PIVE Plan, which ends at the end of the year, but in principle we have not seen any new PIVE approach in the budgets in the future, not even the possibility of a specific PIVE - for when an exclusive one - for sustainable, hybrid or electric vehicles that would contribute precisely to this criterion of sustainable mobility with a policy that would clearly define the government's policy. The Government has not only abandoned the momentum of renewable energy, but is preventing it, despite the fact that it is the only guarantee of energy supply in the future and that Spain can pioneer by having a favourable environment and appropriate technology. Criminalisation of the renewables sector is undermining the energy future, leading to non-compliance with European directives and destroying thousands of jobs created in recent years in the green economy. As always, the Government continues to favour energy oligopoly in any form, the latter through compensation for the Castor. In the field of tourism, these budgets highlight how the Government has established itself in the belief that the tourism industry does not need political planning that will ultimately enable it to take advantage of the revenues generated by this sector in order to achieve a strategic adjustment that will increase the quality of the tourism product as a better instrument of competitiveness. [[The lady]] It is true that tourism has been the industry that has contributed to the better functioning of our economy, once again in the worst moments of the crisis, but at the same time in this boost of tourism benefits the emergency situations that have occurred in other parts of the planet have had the most impact, causing a flight from tourism from emerging markets in North Africa and this European and its refuge in safer and more consolidated destinations. Instead of taking advantage of this opportunity through an investment policy that would allow for a renovation of the hotel plant, an employment policy that would allow an improvement of working conditions as an indispensable condition for a higher quality of the offer and an environmental protection policy that would allow for the search for segments of tourists that increasingly link tourist destinations with environmental quality, the Government has maintained the idea of locating tourism that can only be saved from the management and planning of the private sector. Our country needs - and this is the end of it, Madam President - a real plan to enhance the tourist product of the Spanish State with adequate budgets that could mean taking advantage of the great benefits that the tourist industry has offered to consolidate a leadership position that does not depend on the humanitarian crisis situations of other parts of the planet for its survival. That is why our group from the Plural Left has tabled an amendment to the entire section 29, of the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez. Mr Picó has the floor for the Convergence I d'Unió Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the government and the People's Parliamentary Group repeat to us throughout this debate that we are maintaining that these budgets support economic recovery. If this were so, these budgets should contain increases in the budget allocations of those ministries that with their spending clearly affect the improvement of the economy. Paradoxically, we are faced with a section which has a strong impact on the economic, industrial and small and medium-sized enterprises' recovery; it is not that they do not increase, but that their budget allocations decrease, in particular overall, by 9,5 %. Therefore, in relation to this section, the priority that the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group claim to have to support economic recovery is shown to be not so. It's an incoherence. In addition, with these General State Budgets, we are moving away from the 20% of industrial GDP target to be achieved by 2020, as proposed by the European agenda. Without a doubt, we must support the reindustrialisation of our sectors. That is why an effort is needed to support the reindustrialisation of all those sectors which are engines of economic recovery, but, I repeat, with these General State Budgets it is not going in this direction. Let us also talk about budget lines in support of small and medium-sized enterprises. We are aware of what our economic fabric is, especially based on micro-enterprises and SMEs, whose aspirations are not met by the budget allocations in this section. Some of the twelve amendments we have tabled seek to promote an increase in budget allocations in research and technological and industrial development programmes, programmes for reindustrialisation and conversion in disadvantaged areas, the increase in lines of support for small and medium-sized enterprises and support centres for entrepreneurs and points of business activation. Finally, from the perspective of the need to support the reindustrialization of our economic sectors, it would be important to increase the number of reindustrialization and industrial competitiveness programmes. If we are convinced - we must all be convinced of this - that industry must be one of the pillars of the economy, this section does not take it into account or does not consider it so. In your speech you told us, Minister, that more industry is needed. True, but their budgets do not sufficiently reflect that will they express. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. For the same group, you have the word Don Pere Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President, also for saying my name perfectly, because you are always grateful for being called by the name you were given at birth. Mr Minister, the Convergence i d'Unió Group - we, like Convergence - have tabled an amendment to return your section, because although I can share a good part of the explanation you have given, especially when you defend the role of industry and the necessary and essential reindustrialization of Europe, therefore also of the Spanish State, we do not see that these budgets contain the necessary measures to make possible a good level, a good engine, a good dynamism of this reindustrialization that the country needs. You have spoken about the car sector and we agree. In it things have been done reasonably well and the results are in sight; however, there are many other areas in which things have not only been done well, but in our view they are doing quite badly, with very significant risks. I'm going to quote you a sector you know well, the chemical sector. The chemical employer, Feique, is frankly very concerned. The decisions in the part of electrical energy that your ministry has made are currently seriously affecting the possibility of continuity of some companies. We are also told that the necessary transformation of our chemical industry, which is very concentrated in a few centres - in Huelva, in part in Galicia, in part in Sagunto, in Cartagena, in Tarragona - is not being attended to from his ministry; that they are not able to undertake their transformation and adaptation to the best available techniques, to which the European Union obliges us, these industries are going to leave our country. This is a real risk, and we have not been able to see so far, even though we have been repeating it on many occasions, that the current Executive carries out policies in this regard. We therefore actively demand this from him. Nor have we been able to see - although we will be talking about this in another section - a determined policy of support for SMEs and the implementation of their technological innovation. I repeat that we will talk about this in another section. I'd like to put an end to some thoughts on the electrical issue. You have had to devote yourself to trying to solve the difficult equation of the tariff deficit. Decisions have been taken that have harmed something that was of interest to us all, the development of sustainable energies. I believe, however, that here there is a misdiagnosis that is difficult to express in a few seconds. We have a lot of power installed. Our concern should be, in a rational and sustainable manner, to maximize the value of this power. What is one of the recipes, Minister? The power of the electric vehicle, which is certainly the most powerful instrument, on the one hand, of saving something we do not have, hydrocarbons, on the other hand of technological development, on the other hand of environmental improvement and on the other of ensuring that a lot of installed power that we have can be put into operation. It seems to us that this has not been given sufficient attention. For this energy policy, for this lack of industrial policy, for this reason, we are presenting this refund amendment. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group on behalf of the refoulement amendment and the partial amendments we have tabled to section 20. A total of 100 amendments ultimately constitute an amendment to the Government's entire policy on industry, energy and tourism, as these budgets strengthen the brake on re-industrialisation and the development of an alternative and innovative energy model based on renewable energy. It is a government-driven brake since the start of the legislature, because industry has not been a priority for the government. It is a lack of priority that can explain that, according to the latest available data, the weight of the industry in gross value added has been reduced, from 13,4 % in 2013 to 13,2 % in 2014, data that deny the minister and that we can see in the information of the ministry itself, published both in the 2014 and 2013 annual report. It is a far removed percentage from the 20% target, which is hardly achievable at this rate. Moreover, the level of occupation failed to fully recover, despite the favourable international situation. According to the latest affiliation data for the month of August, there are 156,750 industry affiliates less in August this year than in August 2011. According to data from the annual report of the ministry itself, the remuneration for industrial wage earners is in Spain below the euro area average; a remuneration that grows in countries such as Germany or France twice as much as it does in Spain. It is clear that the Government has failed to take advantage of the external momentum to consolidate a productive model change that ensures sustained and sustainable growth and a well-paid employment generation. The Government has not implemented endogenous policies to facilitate this. Therefore, before this legislature which is already exhausted and after so much sacrifice, there is no reason for satisfaction in the results. What there are are many reasons for change in priorities, in policies and, in particular, there are reasons for change in government. [[Applauds]] Training, innovation and the enhancement of the human factor are the road to improving productivity and competitiveness, which have not been a priority for the Government. As in previous years, 2016 budgets are once again moving us further away from the European goals of industrialization and sustainability. The budget allocated to the industrial fabric is much lower than in 2011 and is also worse. They changed the criteria for access to competitiveness and reindustrialisation plans and made them very unattractive; I would say nothing attractive. We have been able to verify this with the resolutions of the calls for aid in recent years. We have done an analysis of the calls - we have of all the territories called disadvantaged - and the most striking case, among others, is that of the programme of support for the reindustrialization of the island of El Hierro, to which no one has been welcomed since 2013, being the implementation of the programme of zero percent; or that of the Campo de Gibraltar, which reaches 0.72%. Here you see it. [[Show a chart]] In 2012, with other criteria, people did welcome themselves, but neither in 2013 nor in 2014 nor 2015 have they welcomed themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case it is not a problem of lack of resources, but the consequence of a government without an industrial strategy. The changes in the programmes have been a major failure, turning these programmes into useless and inefficient. They are not concerned about the strengthening of industry in those territories most in need of funding and public support, and do not solve the serious problem of unemployment and depopulation in the most disadvantaged areas. Thus, they have strategically abandoned sectoral and territorial policies. Moreover, they are even considering ending the annual public calls, as announced by the Secretary-General in her appearance; a fact that would impose discretion and further affect the lack of transparency of the ministry. We propose amendments with which we recover reindustrialization policies in disadvantaged areas affected by relocation processes, programmes to support industrial competitiveness in strategic sectors, as well as industrial observatories. We are creating a new heading for the financing of strategic industrial development projects and a greater allocation for the promotion of industrial innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, if in any way the management of your ministry has been highlighted in the chaotic energy legislation recently questioned by the European Commission. They have established a new electricity pricing system that places all its weight on the fixed term, which clearly discourages energy savings and penalises the most vulnerable consumers again. They have cut and attacked an incipient and innovative industry such as renewables and have penalized the development of self-consumption. Thus, the Government's energy effort will have been greater, but the results have not been more satisfactory. I would also like to highlight the amendment to update the General Radioactive Waste Plan to ensure the responsible and safe management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste. On the other hand, we propose that the Elcogas integrated gasification technology plant, located in Puertollano, should benefit from the specific remuneration regime provided for in the Electricity Sector Act as a measure of support for a technology that, due to its innovative character and lack of maturity, cannot compete on the market on an equal basis with the conventional ones. With regard to the tourism sector, our amendments are aimed at promoting the development of Spain's competitive advantages as a sustainable tourist destination, with a strong sector and consolidating an international leadership position. We want the budgets to reflect a greater commitment to the sector, because their importance to our economy is undeniable - a commitment that does not reflect the Government with its cuts - and we highlight the amendments to build new hangers. Minister, I would like to take advantage of your presence - if I may - to convey to you the concern of the tourism sector in view of the negative consequences that the latest events that are taking place in the field of social tourism through the Imserso. For example, in the Valencian Community, thousands of jobs can be lost. Therefore, act immediately to avoid it and to put an end to the uncertainty under which the sector is immersed. Finally, in the area of promoting telecommunications and the information society, we propose greater allocations to ensure citizens' access to ICT, as a guarantee of equal opportunities, facilitating user training, increased financial support for ICT entrepreneurs and enterprises and SMEs and sufficient funding for local authorities. In short, we are proposing an important set of amendments to set in motion the engine of permanent growth of the economy, an engine totally neglected by this Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. Mr Mariscal has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Following the path taken by the minister, I will try to be as brief as possible, although I do not know if I will get that speed but I will try. These budgets which, as has been said throughout the day, are those of economic recovery, are budgets which speak to the clear that economic policy decisions give us greater or lesser capacity to decide on our future and therefore give us greater or lesser independence. These economic policies are very different from those experienced until 2011, policies of inaction that have led us to have to approve five budgets in a single legislature. With the correction of imbalances and the structural reforms undertaken we are in the situation in which we are today, which has perfectly defined the Minister before. With regard to energy, we have achieved the sustainability of the Spanish energy system. We came from a deficit of 26,000 million euros, 10 billion euros a year were accumulating gradually and between 2003 and 2012 there was an increase in the price of electricity bill of 82,8%. Once the reforms approved in this House were undertaken, reforms related to the Spanish electricity system, in 2014 there was a decrease in the average consumer tariff of approximately 5.8%. This has affected 27 million users, accounting for 60% of all consumers. All this has been possible with the reform of the electricity system and the change of methodology that was undertaken, as well as by facilitating more marketers and the change of supplier. These reforms of the system also affect coal. I have never heard the Socialist Party talk about coal, which was so much talked about throughout the legislature. It seems important to me to point out that this is the government that has made coal production centres viable so that they can be sustainable from the year 2018. This government has firmly committed itself to energy efficiency, which will undoubtedly be the fundamental pillar of energy efficiency in the next parliamentary term, providing the efficiency fund with more than 200 million euros. This will reduce not only emissions, but also the level of energy consumption we have in our country. This is the Government that has approved the interconnections that were paralysed and that allow to give greater guarantee to our electrical system and the incorporation of more renewable energy. I have heard different speakers talk about the crisis and the bankruptcy of renewable energy in our country. With the legislation that this government has implemented, we have guaranteed investments with an average return of more than 7 % and I have found a moment ago that renewable energy production was more than 40 % of the total energy produced in it. As far as industry is concerned, it has, as the Minister said earlier, been committed to full coordination with the private sector, which brought with it the adoption of the agenda last year. This budget shows a deep investment of more than 80% in financing support models and programmes. We want small and medium-sized enterprises to find more effective financing models and thus gain access to the credit they had renounced throughout the crisis period. Sectors that have a driving force in the Spanish economy have also been supported and promoted; I am thinking, for example, of the aerospace sector. This is the government that paid the outstanding debt to the European Space Agency. This Government, with that payment and support for the space agency, has achieved an increase in the presence of that industry in our economy and, with that tractor effect, that such investments attract contracts to high-value-added companies. Nothing to say about the car. Nor have I heard the opposition talk about the car situation. By 2011 car production had fallen by 40% in our country, and the figures are clear: we are already Europe's second-largest producer country and the ninth-largest country in the world, with more than 2.4 million units. With regard to tourism, I would like the opposition to begin memorizing these three fundamental steps to realize the weight that tourism has in our economy and that which is slowly gaining. In 2011 we did not have the volume of arrivals we have, which will far exceed 65 million, and to this we must of course add the increase in domestic demand, the position we occupy in competitiveness in the number of tourists entering and, fundamentally, the income per tourist. Let us remember that in the previous parliamentary term a greater budget in the field of tourism brought with it less investment and less tourists, an issue that has essentially to do with the policies that apply. We believe that the policies that the left is pushing in our country are an absolute mistake, mainly supported by the Socialist Party. They are aimed at tourist moratoriums, to prevent the arrival of cruises or to the establishment of tourist fees. All this succeeds in favouring the restrictions that limit tourism in our country. The Government is working with the Imserso and the Ministry of Development on bonuses. It is a coordinated work because the area of tourism belongs not only to the Ministry of Industry but also to the entire Government. In short, and ending with telecommunications, where we are going to move forward with the implementation of the digital agenda, this government has clearly faced in this legislature the need to develop our economy linked to sectors where employment is of the highest quality. We will therefore support, as it could not otherwise be, this budget. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. We move on to the debate in section 17. For the section presentation, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to present the budgets of the Ministry of Development for the next financial year 2016, since I believe that infrastructure, transport and housing are the three fundamental pillars for the modernization, territorial cohesion and the social and economic development of our country. For this reason, despite the economic crisis, the Government, through the Ministry of Development, has made an important effort with the budgets approved in the four years of the legislature, which is increased in this 2016 budget. We have put all the capacities of the department at the service of citizens and society, that is, at the service of cohesion, territorial vertebration and balance between all the autonomous communities and equal opportunities. We have made substantial progress, but there are certainly still many objectives to be achieved. In order to make further progress in this direction, today we are presenting budgets amounting to EUR 19,279 million, which means an increase of 10.2%. I would now like to turn to the practicality of a discussion of these characteristics, which is based on five major pillars or objectives. The first is nothing more than continuing to contribute to that economic development that I was talking about and to job creation. The second is to strengthen territorial cohesion and accessibility. The third is to improve the quality and efficiency of transport. The fourth, complete the reforms undertaken in this legislature. And fifth and last, complete the reorientation of housing policy with the State Housing Plan. It will only be possible to achieve these objectives by focusing all of them on seven strategic measures or axes. The first is to continue implementing a realistic and efficient planning policy, based on the Pitvi, the logistics strategy and the proposals emanating from the advisory board. Secondly, the entry into service of railway lines which make it possible to significantly reduce travel times. A good example of this is that in a very short time we will be able to bring high speed to seven Spanish cities: León, Palencia, Burgos, Zamora, Murcia, Castellón and Granada. Also progress in road connections and the extension of the high-capacity road network; continue with land connections in ports, especially railways; improve airport infrastructure and support the rental and promotion of housing rehabilitation, and of course improve the quality of the services we provide to citizens. I am referring to such important aspects as the improvement that has occurred in recent years in the punctuality of the transport; or the modernization of the stations through the specific plan that we have in place; or the implementation of the free wifi, for example, at airports, which will already be launched at all the Spanish airports in less than two months; or also the implementation of the free wifi at the railway stations and on the trains. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, the consolidated budget of the Ministry of Development - as I said - is EUR 19,279 million. This represents approximately 1.7% of Spanish GDP. It is a budget that has a vocation to be a lever of productive activity. This is demonstrated by the fact that more than half of it, namely 54 %, is earmarked for investment. Therefore, it is a budget that is committed to increasing the investment effort. For this reason, of the total budget, EUR 10,129 million, an increase of 5.8% compared to 2015, is for investment. The financial and economic situation of the Development Group has changed substantially. I would like to point out to you that, in the course of previous years, we have continued to improve the results of all the companies and of the whole of the Promotion Group by increasing revenue and minimizing expenditure that was superfluous, as you know. As of 2012, it has entered a constant path of recovery, and the result is that the forecast of Ebitda for the next financial year 2016 will exceed 3.3 billion euros, which means 57 % higher than in 2011. Remember that we received a serious economic crisis, and the result of the Ministry of Development, from the entire Development Group, had a loss of 694 million euros in negative. Today I speak to you in positive numbers, fortunately. [[Applauds]] Section 17, Development Entering into the details of the department's investments, the policy breakdown is as follows: 5,460 million in railways; 2,383 in roads; 1,000 for port policy and maritime safety; 620 for housing policy; and 609 for airports, navigation and air safety. In the area of railways, we continue to make progress in achieving maximum efficiency in the management of services. At the same time, and in parallel, we have maintained our commitment to investing in its triple aspect: high speed, conventional network and proximity. We have carried out a thorough process of modifying the organisation of the railway sector in order to increase its efficiency. We have launched 360 kilometers of high speed line: The Barcelona-Figueras line, the Atlantic axis, Albacete-Alicante and the Sevilla-Cádiz line; and in a very short time - as I said - there will be high speed to León, Palencia, Burgos, Zamora, Murcia, Castellón and Granada. Taking advantage of the new infrastructure, since the end of 2011 Renfe has opened ten new railway routes. Thanks to these new relationships, these commissionings and the new tariff policy last year climbed the Renfe train 465 million travellers. The behaviour of high-speed and long-distance commercial services provides magnificent data. We have had a 30% increase in the number of travellers since 2011. In 2014 the 30 million passengers were reached, 15% more than in 2013; and in what we have been doing this year we have already counted 20.5 million passengers, 6.3% more. We are talking about 1.2 million more travellers than in 2014 and 5.1 million more than in 2011. A clear example of this is the Atlantic axis, which has been used by more than one million passengers, up to the beginning of September, an additional 14.8%, since its launch. In addition, we have launched the Closeness Plan, through which we are investing more than 1.5 billion in network improvement, both in infrastructure and in trains. We have boosted rail freight transport. As shown, ladies and gentlemen, rail traffic grew by one million tonnes in 2012; in 2013, by 3%; in 2014, by 9.4%; and in 2015, we hope to close with a 15% increase, which was unprecedented in our country. We have also developed - as you know - the Plan of 12 measures for the improvement of the railway sector, the creation of the state agency, the approval of the new railway traffic regulation or the regulations for assistance to victims of accidents. We have promoted the Law of the Railway Sector, all of which has a budgetary reflection, and to continue with this line of work in 2016 we dedicate 51% of the investments of the department -5,460 million euros - to the railway. The investment in high speed will be 3,679 million euros. Major projects that already have a considerable degree of implementation can be further completed and enhanced. I remind you of the northwest high-speed corridor, following the execution of the AVE to Galicia; the Mediterranean corridor, which has 1,343 million; not to mention the Murcia-Almería, the Bobadilla-Granada, the high-speed line to Asturias or the high-speed line to the Basque Country, which has 551 million euros. We will also continue to invest in the high-speed northeast corridor and the south corridor, with special emphasis on the Almodóvar del Río bypass. In addition, I would like to highlight the high speed line Madrid-Extremadura-Portuguese border, with 208 million euros; the wide UIC connection of Atocha-Chamartín and the extension of Torrejón de Velasco. Also in conventional network we include very relevant actions, such as the Palencia-Santander line, and, as you know, to contemplate in the 2016 budget a study and a project of the University of Cantabria to make a high speed line to Cantabria. [[Applauds]] We continue, as I told you, working on the conventional Almoraima-Algeciras network, the new rail access to the port of Barcelona, Ferrol or A Coruña. The total investment is 420 million euros. Replenishment of assets and relevant actions in the traffic of goods will also be carried out - as well as not -. Nearby, which, as you know, is an essential service to ensure citizens' mobility, we will continue to work to optimise the provision of services. For this reason, in 2016 we allocated 287 million euros, distributed in the different centers of closeness. By the way, I would like to point out that in the vicinity of Catalonia more than 205 million euros are allocated. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, security investment is key, which has been a constant in our investment plans. In addition to the safety improvement included in all the actions I have just listed, 454.6 million are allocated to railway safety in 2016. I would like to highlight, for example, the installation of the Ertms in Barcelona on the stretch between L'Hospitalet and Mataró, or the installation of the Ertms on the Atlantic axis. In addition, it is important to highlight the budgets that are consolidated with the creation of the State Railway Safety Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, ADIF will carry out most of this investment, EUR 4,068 million, to complement the network in a sustainable way, to optimize the conventional network and to improve these services to the citizens. ADIF will continue to develop its action plan, with this modern rail network that meets the needs of users. By significantly reducing travel times we propose twenty-seven new rail connections between the main urban hubs. Over the course of this year we will have already started putting many of these connections into service and will improve the attention of citizens throughout the network of stations. For his part, Renfe also has, as you know, a full investor character. In the budgets, in the Neighbourhood Plan, more than 110 stations will be improved. Secondly, new rolling stock will be purchased and the current park will be modernised. This will enable us to exploit the investments we are making in infrastructure and to strengthen safety in the movement of trains. The steady improvement in trade policy will enable more than 33.5 million travellers, 47% more than in 2011, to use Renfe's high-speed and long-distance business services, and 450 million users to meet their needs through public service obligations. Renfe's contribution to investments will amount to EUR 448 million. It would highlight for its relevance the 155 million in the purchase of rolling stock. Other relevant items are those relating to the improvement of stations, which amount to 113 million. We are committing a global station plan with a total of €400 million. We are improving two hundred stations, twenty-seven performances have already finished: Pamplona, Almería, Sabadell, Bellavista - in Seville -, Pinto, Meco and Soto del Henares - in Madrid -, Cataroja - in Valencia - and Lorca - in Murcia -, for example, and there are fifty-seven performances in execution, in Torredembarra, in Mataró, in Pozuelo, in Lora, in Ventas de Irun, in Valdecilla or in Medina del Campo, to put some examples. Also important are the items for updating and technical improvement of the rolling stock, for improving safety and adaptation and workshop equipment, such as the large Valladolid workshop, as well as the accessibility plan for the rolling stock. Finally, I would like to point out that in these accounts that we present from Renfe, after a continuous reduction in their losses, we foresee the first year with a positive result of EUR 4.9 million. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a major effort has been made on roads throughout this parliamentary term, and that effort - if it can be strengthened - we will continue to do so. We have reactivated works that were stopped or slowed down, i.e. that executed less than half a million euros a year and that involved an investment of more than 4 billion. I am referring to concrete things, for example the section of the A-8 in Asturias, Unquera-Pendueles, or the southwest variant of Talavera de la Reina, or the section Sils-Caldes de Malavella, or the variant of Santa Maria de Ribarredonda. Or I mean Solares-La Encina or La Encina-Torrelavega, for just a few examples. Or why not tell them about the El Reguerón motorway in Murcia, which was also paralyzed, or San Martiño-Enlace de Barrela Norte in the A-56 in Galicia. In addition, we have faced financial obligations of EUR 2 billion, put into service 528 kilometres of new motorways, 78 conventional roads and 160 kilometres of additional lanes to increase the capacity of motorways or motorways. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that if we put all the sections of the motorway that we have put into service in this legislature one after another, they would have the same length as there is between Madrid and Seville on the A-4 motorway. That, ladies and gentlemen, despite what we have found. We have also put in service or remodeled links, conditioned existing conventional roads, such as the sections of the A-40 in Toledo, the sections of the N-I in Burgos, the sections of the A-7 and the A-44 in Granada, the new road in Despeñaperros. And until the end of 2015 it is previewed the commissioning of additional performances in a length of 108 kilometers. We will finish the A-8 motorway of the Cantabrian, between Solares-La Encina and La Encina-Torrelavega, or the A-7 of the Mediterranean, with the last section of Carchuna-Castell de Ferro or the bridge of the Bay of Cadiz. And thanks to the completion of all these performances, ladies and gentlemen, there will be three great runners in Spain who will no longer have any court, as we have seen so far. I refer to the Mediterranean Corridor, the Cantabrian Corridor and the North-South axis between Gijón and Cádiz, the Via de la Plata. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2016 budget there are 2,383 million euros for roads, an increase of 8.6%. In the new road infrastructure section, 1.174 million. We will prioritise the completion of the works that affect the main high-capacity corridors. Without being exhaustive, there are performances as demanded as the highway of the Duero, the highway Huesca-Jaca, the outside bypass of Granada - where, by the way, on Saturday we bid the works of the last stretch, Las Gabias-Alhendín -, the motorway Lugo-Santiago, or the bypass of Pontevedra, or the duplication of the N-II in Catalonia, or the variant of Vallirana, or the B-40, or the accesses to the ports of Barcelona, A Coruña, Gijón, Gandía, Algeciras and Valencia. Last Saturday we auctioned a series of works for an important value, such as the connection of the V-30 with the A-3 in Xirevella or the accesses to the airports of Malaga, Valencia and Alicante. Ladies and gentlemen, in network conservation, the Ministry, through the Directorate-General for Roads and SEITT, will continue to act on the more than 26,100 kilometres of network we have. In the budget we will allocate 1,058 million, which means an increase of 13%, to comprehensive maintenance contracts, to the granting of first generation motorways and to the rehabilitation and conservation of farms. Last week we approved the tender of sixteen contracts to execute road works in the provinces of Cordoba, Teruel, Asturias, Salamanca, Ávila, Burgos, A Coruña, La Rioja, Madrid and Murcia, renovation and rehabilitation of firms, repainting of brands, construction of gloriets, improvement of drainage or stabilization of slopes. In addition, in Chapter 7, on roads, we have allocated budget items of EUR 151 million, an increase of 44%. In this chapter I would like to highlight that in the case of Canarias the contribution of Fomento destined for roads in the community reaches 97,2 million euros, which means an increase of 73%: 52,5 million to the current agreement, 15 million to the ring of Tenerife, 26.7 to La Aldea-El Risco, 2 million to the works of the Agüimes-Santa Lucía section of the GC-1 and a million euros to an access to the Institute of Astrophysics of Canarias. As you know, all these last works I have said are on roads that are not owned by the State. To finish the road block, we will allocate 45 million to toll reductions, increasing the amounts for bonuses by 5% or with the voluntary heavy traffic diversion plan that we have under way. In connection with this matter, I would like to point out that we are analysing, together with the Generalitat de Catalunya, measures for the improvement of heavy tolls on the N-340 road, which, in addition to the works, will encourage the diversion of these types of vehicles by the AP-7. Yesterday we held a working meeting with the Infrastructure Councillor and the Generalitat Interior Councillor to work in various areas of infrastructure, improvements, signalling and this incorporation into the toll freeway. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to the transport chapter. First of all, I would like to highlight the regulatory and supervisory activity of the department with a great impact on the proper functioning of the sector. In this legislature, between 2012 and June of this year, 225,000 inspections have been carried out, more than 23,500 inspections of companies by the Directorate-General for Land Transport, with more than 2,700,000 tachograph days inspected; 62,000 inspections by the State Aviation Safety Agency, and more than 140,000 inspections by the Directorate-General for Shipping, with more than 120,000 certificates issued, in addition to nearly 6,000 inspections of foreign ships. This year's budget is largely to continue this inspection activity. Transport subsidies are also an essential part of this chapter. Between 2012 and 2015, the Ministry of Development has allocated almost € 4.3 billion to ensure adequate mobility of people. I am talking about public service obligations, support for large families and subsidies for the transport of non-penisular residents. More than 1.5 billion have been allocated specifically to improving the connectivity of the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta and Melilla; 1.256 million to air transport; and 278 million to maritime transport. These amounts have enabled more than 50 million tickets to be subsidized and more than 1 million passengers to be bonusd. In addition, we have ensured the provision of close and medium distance services declared as public service obligations - throughout the legislature, 2.7 billion -. Of course, this effort continues in 2016. The bonus of air and sea transport tickets for residents in non- peninsular territories and large families is increased by 16%, EUR 449 million. I would like to stress that in 2016 we will significantly increase subsidies for the maritime and air transport of goods to and from the island territories, so that the allocation is increased by 85%, allocating a total of 55.3 million for agricultural or industrial goods. And for the financing of railway PSOs there is also a very relevant item, an item of €605 million. At this point, I would like to remind you that banknote revenues cover only a part, as you know, of the total cost of the notes, currently subsidising only the part of PSOs, 50% of the banknote, to which should be added the part that goes on infrastructure. Provision is also made for the maintenance of compensation for the already established air transport PSOs, four inter-canary air routes and the Menorca-Madrid air route, totalling 4.3 million, as well as the public-interest maritime lines, the Algeciras-Ceuta, Melilla-Península and Peninsula-Canarias contract. In the case of land transport, we will continue to encourage the regulatory reforms that we have carried out in this legislature. We will continue, within this context, with the renewal of bus concessions, the competence of the State. We have tendered 20 contracts and awarded a total of seven contracts; by the way, improving intermodality, including, for example, in the packages that some lines go to airports or railway stations to improve intermodality. Finally, EUR 16.8 million is provided for the abandonment of activity by self-employed carriers and also for training aid. With regard to the air sector, ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware of its importance for the economic activity of Spain, particularly for the tourism sector. In addition, in the field of mobility, the air sector is a key element that guarantees territorial cohesion and vertebration, taking into account the extent and peculiarities of Spanish geography. The Directorate-General for Civil Aviation has a budget of 368 million; the State Aviation Safety Agency has been fully self-financing, as you know, since 2012; it has a budget of 66 million and will continue to concentrate its efforts on improving safety, improving the quality of services and enhancing the competitiveness of the Spanish air sector. EASA is expected to carry out 15,000 inspections, almost 20% more than at the beginning of the legislature. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Enaire public entity, as a provider of air navigation services, has a budget of €783.6 million and in this legislature has achieved important achievements: the restructuring of costs, which has increased its efficiency and ensured the economic and financial viability of the company; the reduction and subsequent freezing of air navigation fees by the State since 2012, placing them below the average of our competitors and improving the quality of service due to the good results obtained with the significant reduction of delays, which they know were in some cases unbearable, and finally, at the international level has been very relevant the construction of the single European sky, participating in sixty R & D projects of the Sesar Programme. To advance the modernization of our air navigation system, which is one of the most powerful in the world, we will continue to invest EUR 85 million. These investments will make it possible to absorb the continued increase - fortunately - of air traffic that we are experiencing. On the other hand, in this legislature we have made a profound improvement in the economic and financial situation of AENA, which has made it possible to bring the airport sector of our country to the fore. In 2012 AENA presented a financial imbalance that significantly compromised its future viability. In view of this situation, we have put in place a series of measures whose success has been based on a main objective: to implement and develop results-oriented management, making it more efficient and with first-class safety and quality levels. The increased efficiency of AENA has become one of the stimuli of the air transport sector as a whole and of the strategic sectors linked to it, such as trade and tourism. All this has been done, moreover, maintaining the integrity of the Spanish airport network, which is what we always wanted to preserve. As a result, AENA is the world's leading airport operator in passenger numbers; traffic data in the first eight months makes it possible to be very optimistic. This year the good evolution of the traffic continues, counting until the month of August 140,2 million passengers, 7 million more passengers than in the same period of 2014, which means an increase of 5,2 %. Since October 2013, traffic data record 22 months of continuous upward trend. With this trend of traffic growth it is expected to close the year again exceeding the figure of 200 million. This objective is key for the first airport manager, it is key to continue to benefit users of our airports. AENA has an operating expenditure budget of EUR 2,328 million. The investment will amount to EUR 450 million and will increase its levels of activity and operational capacity, giving priority to improvements and maintenance in security. These include environmental actions, the installation of automated hand baggage systems or the improvement of the T1 of Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas Airport, the slopes of El Prat, Palma de Mallorca and Gran Canaria, the adaptation of the Tenerife South and Ibiza platform or the adaptation of the flight field of La Palma. Merchant Navy. The maritime sector is of fundamental importance and has a budget that will address the main priorities, which are, as you know, territorial cohesion, maritime safety and pollution prevention. We will continue, as I told you, with this intense work of inspection of ships, those high levels of safety in maritime transport that we always want to achieve and the proper management of contingency. That is why I can tell you that merchant marine inspectors carry out some 40,000 inspections of Spanish and foreign vessels and vessels a year. And in the case of Sasemar, besides thanking from this rostrum all the women and men who provide their services in Sasemar and who do an impressive job to save so many human lives, tell them that Sasemar will have a budget of 166 million euros. I must stress that we are proceeding to the renovation and replacement of the oldest salvamares. We have two bailouts in tender and in 2016 we are going to bid another two for a total amount of EUR 8.8 million. We also allocate resources to the motorways of the sea between Spain and France, that of Gijón and that of Algeciras-Vigo, and in the case of Ports del Estado the 2016 budget has an investment of 875 million. The main objective, ladies and gentlemen, of the Spanish ports is to increase their competitive position. For this reason, already in the year 2012 the correction coefficients of the harbour rates below one in those ports with a good economic and financial situation have been lowered for the first time and from the year 2014 the harbour rates have been reduced, and in the year 2015 the basic amounts have remained frozen. The freeze is also projected in 2016 and has been responded to the situation of overcapacity sometimes harbour infrastructure, which had not been invested, as you know, practically nothing in road and rail connectivity. The Railway Accessibility Financial Fund has been set up, and the activity is expected to end with a traffic level of 500 million tonnes. The forecast for 2016 is 513 million tons. These forecasts will allow the freezing of the basic amounts of port charges to continue, enhancing the bonus mechanism and encouraging certain traffic of particular interest and thus helping to increase competitiveness. As I said to you, the investment is 875 million and, of them, 132 million are earmarked for access to ports thanks to the launch of this Port Land Accessibility Fund. For example, for the Harbour Authority of Barcelona an investment of 134 million is previewed; for that of the Bay of Algeciras, 84 million; for the Harbour Authority of Bilbao, 75.9 million, or that of Valencia, 51.6 million. Ladies and gentlemen, this important investment effort in the connectivity of our ports makes us increasingly competitive with neighbouring countries and which have every right, as you know, to have an important activity, but Spain cannot be in line and I would also like to highlight the extension of the maximum concessional time limits in the ports up to fifty years that we have launched. We have made it possible to increase private sector investment in this way. Thus, an additional €859 million of investment is planned for 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now continuing with the housing sector, which is a priority sector for the Ministry of Development. We have adopted the new regulatory framework and are now moving forward with the change of model. The promotion of rent as a form of access to housing allows for greater flexibility, allows exiting the existing stock and bets on building rehabilitation, besides entailing huge energy savings, improving accessibility, generating employment and improving the quality of life of people. In the budgets of this legislature we have earmarked, including 2016, 3.560 million euros to promote access to housing and the improvement of the building. Ladies and gentlemen, aid under the State Plan 2013-2016 is benefiting more than 550,000 families throughout Spain: 230,000 social rental aid, 250,000 subsidy aid to families who are paying a mortgage and 72,500 aid for the rehabilitation of buildings. With regard to support for historical heritage, we have raised the traditional contribution from 1% of the budget to 1.5% of the culture. We have introduced mechanisms for advertising and competition in management. A total of 104 actions are under way, with a budget of over 62 million. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, the investment in housing in the budget amounts to 620 million. To continue with the State Plan for the Promotion of Rent, Building Rehabilitation and Regeneration and Urban Renewal, 533 million, of which 328 million will be allocated to State aid for rent and 205 million will be allocated to the maintenance of loan subsidies for protected housing buyers. On the other hand, there are specific agreements for the rehabilitation and remodeling of neighbourhoods: in Melilla, in Ceuta, in Lorca or in Las Chumberas, in Tenerife. In the case of rehabilitation and conservation of the heritage, we dedicate an investment of 30 million euros to continue with actions aimed at the conservation, restoration and rehabilitation of our rich historical-artistic heritage. This investment is complemented by the 1.5% cultural programme with EUR 47 million, which demonstrates our commitment and momentum in these actions. Thus, 62 actions for an amount of EUR 102 million are under way. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, considering both lines of action, we will have executed or launched 166 actions in this legislature in so many other buildings of unique historical and architectural heritage. I will give you some examples: the School of Music in Santo Domingo de la Calzada; the rehabilitation of the Royal Hospital of Guadix; the former convent of San Andrés, in Malaga; the castle of Vallmoll, in Tarragona; the rehabilitation of the walls of the Iberian city of Ullastret; the consolidation and recovery of the castle of Almansa; the rehabilitation of the cimborrio of the cathedral of Santiago, or the rehabilitation of the Campo del Príncipe building of the University of Granada or the intervention, as you know, of various milestones of the French road of Santiago. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, lastly, I will point out to you the most significant aspects of the budgets envisaged for the Soil Corporate Public Entity, Sepes. To this day, ladies and gentlemen, even if it seems like a miracle, it has been achieved financial consolidation. You know: the result of that disproportionate purchase, the fall of industrial land that they said was residential, financed in many cases or in almost all with loans, we should have committed a plan of reorganization and enhancement of Sepes. Today, financial consolidation and consolidation of sales growth, 90 million euros, more than 12% have been achieved. Special relevance presents the provisions or investments that are planned to meet the existing demand without compromising the continuity of the entity. To this item are dedicated 49 million euros, residential use and construction projects in Ceuta, Melilla and Valencia, and industrial soil projects in La Senda, La Rioja; in Guadiel, Jaén; in Recuenco, La Rioja; in Torrehierro, Toledo; in Henares, second extension, in Guadalajara; in Buenavista, Malaga, or Industrial Oretania in Ciudad Real. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I shall conclude. I hope I have provided you with all the necessary information in this important budget debate, which affects such important aspects as infrastructure, transport and housing. I believe that the objectives achieved so far must serve us to continue the path of progress in infrastructure, transport and housing, because it is fundamental to our society. In times of enormous difficulties each and every one of the more than 55,000 people, women and men, who are part of the department have managed to make us one of the main players in the economy, multiplying our activity and results for the benefit of society as a whole. Just look at the employment statistics from the last few months. Ladies and gentlemen, when I have the opportunity to visit a performance of the ministry, my greatest satisfaction is to see the activity and employment generated around all these investments. [[Applauds]] Not in vain 1.2 million people work in sectors that are within the department's competence. What will we not be able to do, ladies and gentlemen, now that the wind blows strongly in our favor, when we find the ship practically sunk? As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the budgetary effort of these five years, of the four already executed, but also of this 2016, will allow us to complete the transformative cycle that has made it possible to allocate billions of euros to continue building the future of our country from infrastructure, transport and housing. The future forecasts are promising, more than 33 million travellers will climb to high speed thanks to the new commissionings. But we have already achieved an important advance, it is that in August more travellers have already climbed the high-speed train than in a full year in the previous legislature. At airports we will exceed 200 million passengers and at our ports we will reach more than 500 million tonnes. All this is within reach of our hands. It will be enough to maintain the course outlined almost four years ago and persevere in the effort and rigour to improve the Spanish economy, because improving the Spanish economy improves the economy of families, the economy of people and the quality of life of people; all I have learned in this department is that, as you know, infrastructure, transport and housing make up the welfare society. Anyone who is not equal in infrastructure will have a problem, because cohesion and infrastructure vertebration is key for people, for the competitiveness of businesses, for equal opportunities. That is why I will always defend infrastructure that we are all equal in opportunities. As you know, four years ago some things seemed like an unattainable dream and today they are a reality. We have paid for everything and we have put in place fundamental infrastructures, but the most important thing is that in the coming months we will also put very significant infrastructures in our country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Pérez has the floor in defence of amendments by the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u95	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, I apologize in advance because I will have to go very quickly in my speech. I begin by lamenting and conveying our condolences, those of the Galego Nationalist Block, to the relatives of the person who today, this very morning, died in the O Corno tunnel, in an accident in the works of the AVE, in the Concello de Laza, in the province of Ourense. It is not the first, Madam Minister, and it would be all right if we stepped up the surveillance of public works. I will focus my speech on Section 17, Development, and I will refer briefly to Industry, which has just been discussed. As for the Ministry of Development, the infrastructure deficit in Galicia is as old as the promises of the various ministers and ministers of the branch to solve it. Over the past four years, with Mrs Pastor, the Galicians and Galicians, we have lived in the permanent announcement and chronic discourse of Galicia as the great beneficiary of the supposed investor efforts of the ministry. However, reality is still very far in time and space to resemble the grandiose official discourse. To start with, of the total investments dedicated to Galicia in 2016 - by the way, 1.7% less than in 2015 - much more than half, more than 880 million euros, are devoted entirely to works related to high speed and almost all of that amount, more than 770 million, goes to the Lubian-Ourense stretch. But this is what the paper stands for. The reality is that, as the government's own data for 2012, 2013 and 2014 have shown, between 30% and 40% of the budgeted budget is not implemented annually. Therefore, year after year you transform the investments of the budgets into a gigantic accounting device that does nothing but aggravate Galicia's historical backwardness in this matter. And as you boast of the numbers, minister, several sections of the AVE's access to Galicia continue to be paralyzed, including that of Puebla de Sanabria-A Gudiña for more than eight months. I ask you: how do you plan to meet this legendary 2018 deadline? We have asked him as an active and passive person and they have never answered us clearly. Lowering the conditions of the works initially planned? Acting as they have done with the recent inauguration of the Atlantic axis Coruña-Vigo, which has been put into operation without Ertms despite the tragic precedent of Angrois in 2013? In this regard, the BNG proposes for railway safety and to provide the most technologically advanced measures for all sections of EUR 30 million. In addition, also in the area of security, we propose EUR 8 million for a plan to abolish steps at the level in Galicia, where at this point more than one hundred people remain and where 39 people have died in five years. Madam Minister, while the largest piece of cake goes at high speed, the internal rail sections continue to accumulate very serious deficits. The high speed also definitely swallows the section of the Atlantic axis Ferrol-Coruña, which has been and will continue to be the chronicle of an announced misconception, also isolating railway to the city of Ferrol. We propose an initial allocation of EUR 10 million for this purpose. Also disappears the huge amount that have been devoted these years to the closeness of Galicia. The 52,000 euros that were included in the budget each year have become zero and also the sharpest expression of their null and void political will for the establishment of neighbourhoods in one of the few territories of the State that does not yet have them. We did not give up and incorporate an amendment of EUR 25 million for a plan to implement local rail services in Galicia. The railway connection to which you have alluded to the ports of Ferrol, Vigo and A Coruña, which you always defend as priorities and we too, is also an outstanding subject for 2016. Only 2 million in the case of A Coruña for studies. It is true that Ferrol's is a little better, but Vigo's is not even contemplated. The more investment in high speed, the less in road infrastructure that has been screaming for years. The N-550, the only alternative to the prohibitive AP-9, needs a road safety plan and urgent remodeling in its entirety. We propose various amendments to improve these headings. The A-54 Santiago-Lugo at this rate of investment will not be operational until 2020, i.e. with more than ten years of delay of the date approved by this same Congress, which was 2008. Madam Pastor, the unfortunately famous A-8, which has been the star of the unfulfilled announcements of this ministry in the past year, remains closed much of the year, without these budgets - in which you include the ridiculous amount of 200,000 euros - contemplating any departure for the outstanding problems of solution and which has been stranded a year ago. Minister, your bet on the A-8 is still the punitive and punitive measures that can slow down speed, but will never end the lack of visibility. We propose an amendment of EUR 2 million for this purpose, which is already out of line with the absurdity of the ministry. The alternative to the disastrous management of the A-8, the N-634, also continues at the tail of the promised improvements. Our amendment aims to improve its state and security €500,000. Anyway, I'd have a lot more to tell you, but these I've named are just part of the most serious infrastructure shortages in Galicia. As you see, it is a reality that has little to do with what our budgets paint every year and to which we hope to contribute if they take our amendments into account. Madam President, I shall conclude by referring briefly to the Industry section. Industrial employment in Galicia fell to pre-crisis levels. The Government's disastrous and erratic energy policy has not taken into account excess territories in electricity production such as Galicia when considering a differentiated tariff as other territories of the State already exist. In addition, it continues to have on the edge of the knife large energy-consuming companies such as Alcoa, Megasa, Ferroatlantica, etc., and its workers. However, the naval sector again remains one of the most significant contributors to this loss of industrial employment. It is a sector which is vital for Galicia and which, as shown in the budgets of each year, for the Government is totally indispensible, even if it sacrifices a whole region, by the way, the highest unemployment rate in Galicia. It is absolutely incomprehensible at this point, after four years of promises and deception and after thirty years of waiting for the veto of civil shipbuilding, that the yards of Ferrolterra shipyards continue to wait for a workload that never arrives. The BNG - I am finishing, Madam President - proposes 30 million euros for the dam, insufficient but enough to start an action that President Feijóo himself sold as irrefutable in the electoral campaign of the autonomics of 2012. We also include amendments for EUR 150 million for the provision of a specific fund to support the reincorporation of the public naval sector into international markets so that shipyards can carry out civil contracts, and another 30 to implement a programme of aid to the naval auxiliary industry that, thanks to its disastrous industrial policy, goes less and less every day. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that the situation which the People's Party Government has brought to the shipbuilding sector is not being resolved in a budgetary exercise. There is a need for an investment and also a commercial policy that the Government has not carried out so far, and according to the figures it will not do so in 2016. In any case, we hope that in the forthcoming elections in December the citizens of Ferrolterra, in the absence of work, will have a good memory. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the EAJ-PNV Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u97	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak briefly from the seat because I believe that, as much as I speak, I am not going to convince the government and the minister to face the commitment to meet the Basque railway Y year 2019. Madam Minister, you know perfectly well that with the current allocations we cannot reach this date on which you committed yourself. The technicians at least tell us that they are absolutely insufficient, there are no budgetary appropriations yet for the stations of Bilbao, Donosti or Vitoria-Gasteiz. The works are very late. The breaks in the awards are very reckless in some cases and are putting the project itself at risk. Take this reality and commit yourself - as you did - to the real project of the railway Y. With Galicia they have done so, with Euskadi not at the moment, from the budgetary point of view. I do not say they do not do it with Galicia, I say Galicia yes and Euskadi too, I do not want this to be misunderstood. You know that this project is a priority within the Atlantic Railway Corridor, and that it is fundamental to the economic development of Euskadi, otherwise we would not be giving the baton year after year continuously with this issue. Comply in that sense with your word, increase the endowment. We put to you an amendment increasing by EUR 140 million. This would be a endowment that can give us some hope that the project will culminate in 2019. The Basque Group is going to keep pushing and fighting. Perhaps in the next government you will not be able to make this decision, but you could at least show now that firm commitment. On the other hand, I would like to mention another point. Today we were able to learn from the press that Mr Rajoy's government is going to resort to the Ertzaintza's public offer of employment. Yesterday I advocated amendments so that this would not happen, and we did not know it would happen, but we had certain fears in this regard. Instead of defending the Statute of Autonomy in its article 17 and the agreement between the Security Board and the Government, what Mr. Rajoy's Government does is appeal to prevent it. Instead of collaborating, it is preferable to destroy, rather than agree and negotiate, it is preferable to resort. Let us sincerely hope that in the end they will not do so or, if they do so, that they will withdraw the appeal. We request it for legal reasons and also for reasons of political coexistence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. The Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy has the floor, Mr Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u99	Thank you, Madam President. I shall refer briefly to an issue on which we have spoken during this parliamentary term. I am referring to my group's disagreements with the investment policy of this Government, and also with the previous ones, which I would like to recall because they are the basis of our rejection of these budgets, and in particular of this section. Our rejection is consistent with what I said in the section on Industry, Energy and Tourism. These are continuous budgets of a model that we consider wrong because the crisis in Spain worsened, with respect to countries with economies comparable to ours, by a policy of real estate bubbles and infrastructure that fuelled a financial crisis with catastrophic consequences. It is enough for us to remember that the rescue of savings banks was largely due to the fact that many of them were involved, through political decisions, in the financing of public works and real estate investments that lacked economic justification, sometimes even in the long term. They were works that in many cases could be politically popular, which allowed local mayors and factual powers to shine, but had no or little economic justification. What must be done by a government that presents General State Budgets is a policy thinking of the general good, of the general interest, on the basis - which we hope they share, although we are not sure - that what suits the great majority or everyone, even if it does not have a direct short-term effect in a given city, region or region, is going to have it in the long term and in a positive way, in the form of, for example, a more developed, more competitive economy with less public deficit and less public debt. Let us remember, because it is very often forgotten, that the bankruptcy of one of the first boxes, Caja de Castilla-La Mancha, was for that senseless and foolish adventure of the airport of Ciudad Real, where they put 170 of the 450 million euros that cost that work, which follows, so that it can be seen from the AVE, which passes next, as a monument to economic folly, speculation and of course to political irresponsibility. We continue to observe that the budget section dedicated to Fomento, which is one of the stars of budgets, because it is in the logic of the traditional way of doing politics, is the great hub of political favors, of marketing, of obtaining a certain work for a certain place, and always of course looking for the edge of the eye to the self-interest of the governing party, which has interest in continuing to be based on obtaining votes, political support, media support in those areas benefited. What happens is that, as is the case today and in recent years, resources are often limited, and then the distribution produces the effect of what we can see when we look at the map of the infrastructures, of the investments of the State: a series of disconnected patches, interrupted lines that are not related to each other or whose links are going to be, as Mr Azpiazu mentioned recently regarding the famous Basque Y, increasingly remote. My group has explained many times that it does not share the need for the access of an AVE to Galicia, which is very different from not sharing - which we absolutely share - the need for a high-quality and rigorous railway investment in Galicia, and in other communities, such as Murcia, which does not even have an electrified section yet, because they continue with the diesel and trains of the year of the Polka. We cannot continue to consider that the country is a puzzle, a series of discontinuous patches, which cannot therefore be planned with rigorous economic criteria and opportunity and a necessity in order to make one of the star investments of the PGEs, which is precisely the section of Fomento. The best example, once again - well, there are two, and both negative in our opinion - is investment in AVE. It is still unexplained to the public that Spain is the only country in Europe, and indeed the only one in the world, that during the crisis instead of freezing, putting a moratorium on its investments in AVE, it remained undisturbable, impassable, making its investments until it reached our current record, which is to be the second country in the world in kilometers of AVE, only behind China and far ahead of European countries and even from France, which after all was the one who invented the system. France, Germany and the United Kingdom, at last other poor countries, with huge unemployment figures, apparently much higher than Spain, paralyzed this type of investment, and in the case of France - they have explained it many times - including connections with Spain because they considered that they were not profitable. And here it has been followed as such, but in addition it has not even been dedicated the investment in AVE to the strategic railway axes, considered as such by the European Union, such as the Mediterranean corridor or the Atlantic axis, but they have continued to make patches to comply with each one within a policy of interests and political alliances that the People's Group has turned into state policy, without being so. And that's what we're paying for in abandoning the conventional rail network, and I'm telling you from my own experience: on my last two trips in Alvia, Irún-Madrid and Madrid-Irún, to the whole passage they have returned 100 percent of the ticket, because in the first one the train crashed and we were two hours late, and in the last one, which was this Monday, more than half an hour late. Why? Because the maintenance has been abandoned for the benefit of investments in apparent trains; that is, a rhetoric of great luxury, of great development, which actually only benefits a minority of the population, although all this escapes and hides from public opinion, which does not know that it is subsidizing the tickets of those who go to AVE, and despite everything are out of the reach of the vast majority of Spanish families, and will be for a long time. That is to say, the many inequalities that we have been accumulating have been added to an inequality in mobility for reasons that are practically nineteenth-century, of course in our opinion unjustifiable. It is possible and should have had - perhaps it is already late and it is another of the losses that will have to be put in the outstanding account, both of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party and of its nationalist partners - the opportunity to have in Spain a good railway network, which also takes charge of the transport of goods, which has not been done; and that has been lost by having a network of AVE only in order to be able to boast and walk through other countries of the world, such as Arabia, Iran, and other countries, offering them investments that will be very good for them, but that of course only benefit us in an indirect way. That is, by exponentially increasing the public debt needed to finance this. I don't have much time to expand, but I want to say that something similar happens to what happened with the roads. I hope there is no causal interrelationship, but this year there has been a great increase in road damage, and it coincided with several years of abandoning the maintenance of the State's road network at a sufficient level. In our view that is not acceptable. We therefore continue to have a policy of promotion aimed at obtaining immediate political revenues and partisan brilliance and not a State policy. This is serious and we cannot support such budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mrs De las Heras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u101	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the investments in transport infrastructure that are intended or expected to be made for the 2016 financial year in the Fomento Group re-emphasize the error of the planning model by which you bet on the People's Party government. It is a model where the construction of infrastructures is still regarded as productive type investment, generating wealth and employment, despite the fact that there are multiple studies - and the reality has left us enough and unfortunately demonstrated, in our country above all - that indicate that the excess supply of large infrastructures can in many cases be harmful in economic terms. It is a devastating model in environmental terms that does not solve the real mobility and transport needs of all citizens, providing and guaranteeing quality of life, equality and equity. In La Izquierda Plural we believe that investments in transport infrastructure are needed, but much less those that arise, both in these and in previous budgets. That is why we believe our amendment to the whole is more than justified. The investment effort in the maintenance and maintenance of existing infrastructure, in the rail transport used by most users and goods, or in current transport subsidies, is once again abandoned. These investments are the ones that really have a clear social and economic reversal generating quality jobs. We repeat again and again, year after year, our proposals without being heard. We know that there will be no solution as long as the People's Party continues in government and continues, for whom it is, defending, together with the great builders, the goodness of building more and more transport infrastructures at the cost of generation and the growth of more and more debt, something that we have been repeating over and over again. Far from rectifying with these budgets they seek to consolidate this model, making it clear that, after the devastating effects that the crisis has left and after all that enormous investment effort that has placed us at European record levels - as has already been said here - in kilometres of motorway, high-speed lines or airport numbers, a large part - of these infrastructures are being made available to economic and financial interests through sale or liberalization. That is what you have done - and that is what you have done under your mandate in your ministry - the People's Party government with AENA, Renfe and ADIF; an expoliation that every day produces more indignation and is more difficult to hide from public opinion. Madam Minister, you know very well that we are still waiting for you to come and explain to us in Parliament how the sale of 49 % of AENA has developed, how it is possible that it has been missold without even guaranteeing the stability of the majority shareholder, and what opinion you deserve the loss of almost EUR 6 billion for the public coffers with this sale operation. We're waiting for her; she still has some time to come and do it. As for high speed, it remains the great recipient of investment and the largest number of enabling securities is being carried out so that it can be exploited by private operators, high speed investment that - as has already been said here, and I share it, by other spokespersons - is made at the expense of an investment as necessary as that of the conventional railway or the nearby ones, which are the medium used by the majority of the population. We also believe that the economic momentum for the transport of goods by rail remains clearly inadequate. We have the Canfranc train, a historic claim for Aragon that does not have a single budgeted euro. As far as roads are concerned, the greatest investment effort will go one more year towards the creation of new infrastructure compared to that for the maintenance and maintenance of the network already in service. In short, we are very clear that these budgets contribute decisively to the consolidation of a model in which the public, which we all pay, is transferred to private entities; a model in which the difficulties of mobility and of increasing transport for the majority translate into scandalous benefits for large-scale construction companies and financial institutions. In view of this from my group we have wanted to counter this model with a series of amendments which I will quote very briefly, because I have little time, aimed at increasing the subsidies of the public service obligation in order to put again in service lines and frequencies that have been eliminated; those aimed at suppressing steps at level or the installation of Ertms in Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia and Seville; the package of amendments with which we intend to promote the safety, both of conventional railways and of closeness in the different autonomous communities; a series of amendments which aim to increase the investments in necessary and essential closeness in Asturias, Andalusia - specifically in Seville - Galicia, Catalonia and Aragon. We are betting, and we have also tabled an amendment in this regard, to invest in means of transport so that they are accessible and non-discriminatory for people with different capacities, in compliance with the Liondau, an amendment that we have been presenting repeatedly without the People's Party wanting to attend to it. As far as road infrastructure is concerned, we have tabled amendments to increase the allocations for the maintenance of the existing network, with the establishment of farms, safety and signalling barriers, as well as for the improvement and construction of access to different localities and cities throughout the State. We also put forward a block of amendments so that the acoustic impact can be solved, by means of acoustic barriers, in those localities that have been waiting for this intervention to take place, after the motorways or high-capacity roads have been built, and this is not done. Finally, in the short time I have left, I would like to mention housing. What the People's Party has done during its four years, consolidated at the legislative level, has been to squander any public action that can guarantee the social role of housing, failing to comply with article 47 of the Constitution. In this respect, we have drawn up a number of amendments, which I would like to highlight in order to progressively restore the subsidisation of protected loans, which were abolished unjustifiably and retroactively, alluding to the fact that we were in crisis. As I said in the Commission, and I repeat again, in the spirit that they are not going to give us a straw case - as we are cordially told - we ask that, since they are holding back the recovery of the crisis, they return this aid to the people to whom, with shelter of public protection, it is very difficult for them to pay their interests. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Las Heras. For the Convergence I d'Unió Group, Mr Picó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I must admit that you have made an effort today to demonstrate the investment momentum of these General State Budgets, but the state's investment map cannot be valued but negatively from the perspective of Catalonia. This is what Unitó understands, and it has also been appreciated by the main Catalan social and economic actors. It should not be forgotten that the state's investment in Catalonia in 2015 is the lowest in the last seventeen years. Therefore the slight increase in investment endowments from 9.5 this year to 10.7 in 2016 is not a data to throw rockets, minister, but it is also - as I will tell you later - not fair. In addition, unfortunately, we find in the draft law an inexplicable delay of two priority and fundamental projects for the economy of Catalonia, such as the Mediterranean corridor and the works of implementation of the UIC width in the port of Barcelona, with the consequent connection to the international wide railway network and to the future Mediterranean corridor. Similarly, there is a reduction in the forecast of allocations for the unfolding of the A-2 or for the variant of Vallirana, in the N-340, or for the B-40, which will lead to a global delay in the completion of these works. Not to mention the under-financing of the neighbourhoods of Barcelona; the commitments repeatedly undertaken by his Government with the Generalitat of Catalonia are still not fulfilled. The numbers are the numbers. In short, bad budgets for Catalonia, but the most serious thing, Minister, is that being unfair to Catalonia, they are seriously harming the Spanish economy. Because, how are you going to achieve the objectives of these budgets that you have detailed, if you are going to derail the train machine in the interest of economic recovery? Ladies and gentlemen, in their own interest, the interest in economic recovery should increase the State's economic activity in Catalonia. They know perfectly well that the level of investment in infrastructure in Catalonia for 2016 is 10.7, when Catalonia contributes 19% of GDP to the State, accounts for 20% of tax collection, accounts for 35% of exporting companies, contributes 20% of investment in R & D+i and 26% of total exports in millions of euros the Spanish State. Why is this punishment for Catalonia only giving rise to an investment of 10.7%? We find no explanation, no political and economic justification for this injustice and this contempt for the locomotive of the economy that is Catalonia. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. Mr Macias has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u105	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I could almost not have come up here today, because my colleague Picó has already said the most relevant thing, but we have four minutes and we must take advantage of them. I'm going to rely on a traffic map edited by the Ministry of Development - you have to congratulate your people, because they do a good job -. When the Minister lists a number of principles I believe them, I am like others you know well from the Government of Catalonia who have the presumption of kindness, we believe it. You say that investments must be rationalised. [[Show a road map of Spain]] Here you will not see anything, but you can consult it; here there are different colors that represent the more or less intense traffics of the different Spanish roads. A certain criterion for prioritizing investments would have to do with the amount of traffic, especially the specificity of this traffic; if there are many trucks - what they call heavy - there is a lot of risk. I'm gonna give you some data that's out of here. This is the 2013 map, but surely in the years 2014 and 2015 there will be more traffic because fortunately we are recovering. In the N-340 - to which you have referred -, at the beginning of the Cambrils section to Vinaroz, it should be noted that in Cambrils there is a traffic of 41,909 vehicles per day and in Vinaroz 16,711, but the important thing is that 30% - or 28, according to the sections - are trucks. What's going on? That this is very complicated on a road without unfolding - incomprehensiblely, without unfolding - and there are many accidents and deaths. Madam Minister, we have tabled many amendments to try to resolve this, but I have to say that citizens do not understand how sections like these do not have priority. Citizens can understand that you, for reasons of territorial cohesion, want to make a path that starts on the Silver route - and it seems to me good, because it structures the peninsular territory - but of course the stretch that you are finishing now from Benavente-Zamora has a traffic intensity of 4,200 vehicles, that is 10% in relation to the aforementioned stretch. It is doing so, and I am not going to criticize it at all, but the citizens of Castellón, Tarragona and part of Barcelona ask themselves: Why is it not up to us? I'll ask you this question. As I have just one minute left, I will also ask you another question about railway policy. Rail policy has three major segments: those called Intercity, which here we call high speed; the so-called neighbourhoods and regionals, which I like to call social railway and freight train. To be honest, it seems to me that, as you say in your presentation of the budgets, I think that 68% of the resources - I may be mistaken, but I think it is only a short while ago - to the Intercity or high-speed railway, and only 5% to the vicinity, to the social railway, makes no sense and not just to the numbers of passengers transported. When Mr Montoro appears again and again he talks about social policy, but that 5% is very little, it is 100 only 5; it is very little, it is twenty-seven. Therefore, Minister, I quote the National 340 as an example of something that is not being done well; 5% closeness - I am not talking about Catalonia, I am talking about all of Spain, here was someone from Galicia also, and I do not understand much about Galicia, but others do -, which is very little, Minister. I have given you two examples of why we have tabled a refund amendment to your budgets. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr Gordo has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the budgets of the Development Group follow the same line as the budgets of recent years: they are continuous and do not respond to the problems of transport and infrastructure that our country has. Budgets with a lot of noise and a few nuts, and if you will allow me with smoke, smoke and more smoke, because listening to it we realize that it repeats exactly in the gallery the same performances that are not performed year by year. It is the case of Granada-Bobadilla, 50 million, nothing; it is the case of Palencia-Santander, absolutely nothing; it is the case of the high speed line Murcia-Almeria, absolutely nothing from the single sky. Recently, a fellow exclaimed: "Woe to take your hair! And I think you're right, because what you've defended here is a budget that then really doesn't translate, and you know it. At the moment you can't access the ministry's website to see the budget execution, we can't see it because you have withdrawn it, and neither do you answer the questions asked. That is why we have tabled an amendment in its entirety, which undoubtedly has deeper reasons, because this budget does not contribute to economic recovery or to improved competitiveness or job creation. It is a budget with an investment of 0.84% of GDP. It is true that it is growing, but far from 0.95%, which is the minimum ground for boosting the economy and responding to transport problems. It is an inconsistent budget, which does not make sufficient progress on key issues such as connectivity, mobility, intermodality or logistical development, and which lacks credibility: many actions scattered with a clear electoral orientation but also counterproductive. I put to you the case of my province, which knows well: the unfolding of the variant, with a match of 2.5 million euros after four years - they have done nothing - and that would only allow to build 200 meters, that is, moving machinery and incurring at a high cost. Nor is there any progress in the trans-European transport network or in the area of security, where the allocations are minimal or scarce, but there is also an increase in debt. The debt grows by 6% and ADIF only by 47%. It is a budget that will hardly be implemented and that we fear, as I said at the beginning, that it is a lot of smoke, a lot of smoke and that it certainly does not contribute to that transformative cycle of Spanish society to which it has referred. In terms of investments, they amount to EUR 8,533 million, 44.3%, which represents 50% less investment than in the socialist government era. As far as conservation is concerned, it does not reach 2 %, it does not reach 600 million, when it should be EUR 900 million. This implies more risks, more accidents and more costs. As for road performances, you have made reference to the N-340 - which you have been announcing here year after year - with major accidents especially in the Lower Penedès part or in the Ebro Lands. And the railroad, what do you say? Same thing: it hasn't been reversed. In the area of housing policy, they have not taken a single measure aimed at those who have lost or are at risk of losing their homes, with a consolidated cut of €3 billion. It's said soon. In short, it is a budget that does not take account of young people and that has eliminated the subsidy of loans, a right that corresponds and leads to a difficult situation for many families. They are budgets that allow us to deepen one more year in the great problem of the transport model that the People's Party has developed during this parliamentary term, a legislature, minister, in which it will be remembered by misselling AENA and for developing an unsustainable transport system, characterized by many gestures, by initiatives of an electoral nature but that do not entangle with the real needs. Proof of this are the transport of goods by road, where no structural changes have been made and atomisation persists; the transport of road passengers, where the concessional problem has not been resolved; or the transport of rail passengers, where public service obligations, proximity and half-distance services have not been improved. In addition, you remain committed to taking a step towards liberalising rail transport, a project that is doomed to failure. As the companies themselves who are forced to go to the competition recognise, it will mean losses of between 40% and 50% that we will end up absorbing all the Spaniards - I do not say this, the closest environment of the Hacienda - and it shows a policy of transport of gestures, superficial and face to face to the gallery. And what about air transport. You guys sold AENA. There was a serious public waste, because AENA entered 2.7 billion euros less than it should have entered, with profitability of up to 60% on the part of some investors, and it will not be because we did not tell both you and the Secretary of State. AENA had the best conditions, thanks to the socialist heritage, for not being gifted, because you gave AENA, that 49%, and your answer was that we had broken AENA. [[Rumors.- Mr. Fields Craftsmen: Yes!]] Once again he lied, and I showed it to the Secretary of State with a patrimony analysis. You have no objection to saying the opposite so as to capture votes. And I'll tell you something else, the infrastructure is not of the People's Party, it's of all the Spaniards. You spoke before what you've found. What are we going to find, because we're going to find him. I am also sure that we will face problems such as that of the estuba - it has not appointed it - on which there is a judgment that obliges the Kingdom of Spain to comply with the rules of competition and you have transferred quite the opposite of what you are going to do; or that of the concessions of ports, that leads you to make concessions of up to fifty years - that with the extension you can reach seventy - for investments that do not even reach the 2 billion euros, that is the equivalent of three years; or as the railway access fund, that will force you to raise the rates and therefore to lose competitiveness. Madam Minister, this budget does not contribute to the fundamental objective, which is to develop an integrated and sustainable transport network, nor does it contribute to responding to the great challenges facing our country, which are the creation of jobs and the generation of modern, sustainable infrastructure geared towards the transport of citizens and not to other spurious interests. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Gordo. Mr Ayala has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Minister. The draft General Budgets of the State of the Development Group for the financial year 2016 is coherent and rigorous, foresees the necessary investments and demonstrates that the economic policy of the People's Party is the right one. It is not by chance the increase in employment, as a result of the economic policies of the Government, which are reflected precisely in the budgets. These budgets are the culmination of the economic policy programme of the legislature. They're consistent. Why? Because they are the result of the management that has allowed the Government to return a country with healthy accounts, with growth and with job creation. The Minister has been comprehensive and has given sufficiently eloquent data, demonstrating that the Ministry of Development continues to take the measures that best enable the Government to meet its objectives and that are summarized in a single sentence, and that is the improvement in the quality of the services we provide to citizens, which is evidence. In addition, growth for the next year - 10.2% over 2015 - is 1.7% of GDP, of which 56% is devoted to investments. As the minister says, 70% of all state investments are channelled and entrusted to the Fomento Group and, within that, the railway takes 51% above other means of transport because it is indeed a policy of success. Housing, which is at the other end, is not abandoned or neglected in any case because it is devoted to 6% of the total. In this you have to be serious and not demagogue. Just apostille, as the minister has done, that the State Plan 2013-2016 has dedicated 1,591 million euros and has benefited 550,000 families, with the breakdown that the minister herself has explained to us. Therefore, the criticisms that are made here are absolutely unsustainable. The budgets of the Ministry of Development and its group are adequate and necessary for the moment that Spain lives. Here I would like to highlight three milestones, namely the effort for security, the effort for the maintenance of our road network, which is growing by 13%, and the growth of transport subsidies, with this improvement of services for citizens, which I said a moment ago, is growing by 16%. The amendments we are discussing here are quite demagogic. There have been a total of 1,297 amendments, four of which have been returned from the Socialist Group, the Plural Left, UPyD and CiU. Here we attend the ceremony of confusion. The opposition parliamentary groups accuse these electoral budgets, of abandoning territories and causing territorial imbalance and of not generating employment; they say that the necessary investments are others, that private enterprise is served, that there is privatization - less evil than they have talked about today - that there is no need to build infrastructure; or the contrary: that little is invested and that more needs to be done. The entire amendment, representing UPyD, says that the AVE is not needed and then his group in Murcia says that it wants it buried and with all the conditions for it not to arrive. Let's see if they agree on what they're saying in the territories they're ruling. We're on the permanent sonicette, but whose? From parliamentary groups which, instead of helping to get out of the crisis in an exercise of collective responsibility, have been putting sticks on the wheels throughout the legislature and have not helped in anything, on the contrary. But without any help from the opposition and with the confidence and effort of the citizens we are emerging from the crisis and creating jobs. We are growing up as the first country in the European Union and we are creating more jobs than any other. Therefore, as much as they try to cover it up, they will not succeed, and they have no choice but to overdo it, as they did this morning, to justify, on the one hand, the lag in their approaches and, on the other, the genuine failure of their policies. They come and presume to invest. In what? The ones who had the occurrence of the PlanE? Fiasco. Or of the 17 billion in the extraordinary infrastructure plan, in which they didn't invest a hard one? Don't cheat. They make absolutely heterogeneous comparisons. Investments are not lost here, neither Europeans nor others. In order to lose European investment, we had enough with the negotiation you made of the 2007-2013 financial perspective, in which Spain lost only 30,433 million EU funds. I have to make two references to indebtedness. I've told you many times, Mr. Gordo. The debt in 2004 was 12,330 million euros - the one you met -; in 2011, 41,464 million; in 2014, 36,720. That is to say, you, 29,134 million euros more debt - which is said soon - and we, in four years, 4,738 million less debt. What are we talking about, Mr. Gordo? What are we talking about? With regard to AENA, Mr Gordo, the day you want - out of institutional loyalty I will not refer to it today - we sit down to see what value they considered to have AENA; whenever we want to do so. What we have done has been to take out a free acquisition of shares of 49%, the highest value of AENA of the fourteen reports available, and we have not made any dismemberment, as you were going to do, or any breakdown of the network, as you were going to do. Therefore, Mr Gordo, we were lucky enough to save ourselves from selling bad AENA because you lost the elections in 2011; if not, today we would be talking, unfortunately, in a rather different way. [[Applauds]] I would like to make a reference - and I conclude with this - to the territorial imbalances or the affronts that exist with the territories. In the budget of Fomento Cataluña grows 6.62% over 2015, that is to say, more than all of Spain, and stands at 151.1% on the national average of the autonomous communities. Interestingly, the two representatives of the Convergence and Union Group who have spoken have gone away; it must be because these things do not want to hear them. It is the second autonomous community with the largest budget and investment is 128.4% above the national average. I also want to remind you that the N-340 not only passes through Catalonia, it is born in Algeciras and dies in Gerona, in Rosas. It is therefore also untapped in many other parts of Spain. As for Galicia, just one example: in 2016, 1.240 million euros are invested, 160.6% above the national average, and it is the second autonomous community in per capita investment and the third in absolute investment. Those criticisms are therefore capricious. Mr Azpiazu, the Basque Country has a 25.5% growth in railways and, if the comparison serves it, is 64.7% higher than what was invested in 2011. Therefore, I think it is not fair the criticism you are making this morning. I'm done. Thank you very much, Minister, for the presentation of these budgets. Thank you very much for your efforts, for your entire leadership team and for all the staff of the Ministry of Development, which has set an example of good work and dedication to help us get out of the crisis and have a much more laudable picture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Ayala. We shall now proceed to the debate on section 14. For the presentation of the section, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I come again to you to comment on the contents of section 14 of the draft General State Budgets for the coming financial year 2016. I thus compare, like many of my colleagues in the Government, for the fifth time in forty months, to continue to face the responsibilities that the Spaniards have entrusted to us, as we have done since the first minute of the legislature and as we will do until the last one in which it is appropriate to do the task. To a great extent this appearance of budgets has to do with responsibility. With the sole exception of the sending of Spanish soldiers and sailors to operations, no other task of our Administration requires taking on as much responsibility as the management of public money, those that the citizens put at our disposal, in order to guarantee their security and the defense of the sovereignty of Spain and of each and every one of the Spaniards wherever it is threatened. It is clear, even if it is not appropriate for some to admit, that the economic situation in the country has changed greatly and for good, as has been explained here repeatedly. That 22nd of May 2012, when it was my turn to defend my section for the first time, was a very complicated day, like most of them on those dates. We were working against clockwork to avoid the total wreckage of our economy and to restore credibility as a nation of Spain. We seemed to be engaged in failure given the poor state of public finances and the economy in general, almost collapsed after years of bad government. However, thanks to the responsible effort of the Spaniards and the responsible and courageously reformist management of the government led by Mariano Rajoy, today the reality is quite different, as has already been explained here too. Even without being able to neglect for a minute the fight against the public deficit, while intensifying efforts against unemployment that is still unacceptable, the crisis has been contained. We are growing again and we are doing so at the fastest pace among the big countries of the European Union. We are constantly creating jobs as the deficit diminishes and exports increase. In short, economic recovery is being consolidated. In line with the stabilization of public accounts, for the second year in a row and with compulsory moderation, we continue the growth path of the Ministry of Defence budget even from the modesty of 0.35%. For a department that has lost 32% of its budget in the last eight years, the containment of the fall is vital and any small increase makes us look to the future with hope and optimism, not only because we have reversed the trend but also because, as I told you last year, the really important thing is perseverance in all policies and particularly in state policies. That's what we're on. In this case, persevere Section 14, Defense has also been to end the bleeding and tend to gradually increase the defence budget. These are decisions that keep us on the road to an ambitious goal set by the Atlantic Alliance at the Newport Summit in Cardiff. Unfortunately, we still do not have enough budgetary space to consolidate our investment in defence as we would like and as Spain and its allies pledged to have it there, but we are moving forward for responsibility and coherence with ourselves and our allies. Although modest, this budget that I am presenting today is totally useful as a door to a path of confluence and stability in this policy consistent with the existence of the rule of law. From the very first moment of this parliamentary term, certainly exceptional in economic terms, from the first speech the Government and the parliamentary group that supports it have been insisting on the need for a great political pact that guarantees the sustainability and the capacity for modernization of national defence. We have applied this will to all important matters of the legislature. In some matters of great importance we have achieved this, in others we have not. The innumerable problems and shortcomings that we have had to face have not made it possible for the necessary conditions to be laid down in order to be able to raise an omni-understanding agreement realistically. This realism consists, first of all, of a criterion shared between all the political forces of the parliamentary arc or by a large majority: the investment in them. Investment in security and defence is irrefutable and will continue to be, given what has been and will continue to be this uncertain world. The budget allocation therefore needs to be stable and sustained over time. The second element for the agreement would be to start from a position where both the economic situation and fiscal consolidation would enable the most certain long-term financial perspective to be provided. Of course, the financial perspective would have to run in parallel with the defence planning cycle, which, as you know, starts with the national security strategy and the defence directive. The third element, finally, would be to have a completed planning cycle within the defence structure. I am referring both to your administrative apparatus and to an optimised, efficient and effective force; a department with the investment commitments acquired and future under a perfectly detailed control; a defense prepared, in short, to face with realism and responsibility the risks and threats that Spain can have, with short, medium and also long-term vision. Well, I am pleased to see, both from the text of some of the amendments which you have tabled and from certain public statements within and outside this House, that the lightness towards national defence has been left behind and that there is awareness of its indispensable and therefore irrefutable condition. This consciousness also seems to exist in society in general, although it may be the result of the obvious perception of the threat transmitted to us by the shocking and unfortunate images that are inescapable these days and which unfortunately are only signs of the reality that haunts us. Therefore, we can say that the first condition is given for the agreement. With regard to the second, as we have seen and as it is easily deduced from the draft law that we are dealing with today, we are not yet in a position to work and pool forecasts that can be fully assumed in the current economic framework. Like all our partners in the Union, we are bounded by our capacity to spend, to borrow and to finance within the European budgetary schemes that are binding on the Member States. However also at this point you start to see the light at the end of the tunnel. The deficit target for 2016 is already fully embedded in budgetary normality and although the greatest possible balance is always desirable and, of course, the appropriate surplus, the consolidation path agreed with the European Union is being met. This development, together with the improvement of the rest of the macro-economic dimensions, will allow for an economic context throughout the next parliamentary term that makes it possible to put forward, with due rigour, a multiannual budgetary planning for national defence. On the third point, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to inform you that, as I told you in 2012, we have correctly interpreted this crisis as an opportunity and have used it to adjust, adapt and optimize the structures of the Ministry of Defence, of the strength and expenditure in defence policy in general and of investment in particular. It has been an intense work of legislature and long-term vision, the results of which are reflected in the budget that I am presenting to you today. The quantity has been extensively detailed by the senior officials of the department, so I will inform you about the qualitative aspects of the budget. We have armed forces that, despite the economic difficulties, possess a sufficient degree of enlistment and preparation to face the risks and threats that Spain will have in this complicated beginning and throughout the twenty-first century. The men and women who make up them are the main asset of the defence and therefore, in addition to regaining purchasing power, like the rest of the public employees, this budget also adds the impact of the measures that we continue to implement to improve all aspects of their personal and professional lives. In this way, there is room for improvement of education and training schemes; policies of assistance, support and reconciliation, vacations, permits and leave, equal opportunities for men and women in access to and development of the military career, prevention, punishment and protection of any conduct constituting sexual harassment or on grounds of sex; promotion of professional exits for the continuity of careers and, of course, social protection, support to the family environment and to the families of the deceased and injured in service. Funds are also planned to alleviate the effects of geographical mobility on the exercise of the profession in the family environment, although these allocations will undoubtedly have to be improved in future years, in line with the recommendations arising from the report of the Military Life Observatory and which the honourable Members are currently processing. Of course, the reforms have not remained there. The chapter devoted to current expenditure clearly reflects the changes in the structure of the ministry and of the force, with the reallocation of items between budgetary services as a result of the empowerment of the Defence Staff as a major operational core and the organizational secondment of the EMU. We have also given impetus to the new challenges with the strengthening of cyber defence and intelligence, also in the homogenization of technical assistance and satellite observation services and in the centralization of contracts, both in the central body and in the Ministry of Finance, among other amendments to Chapter 2 that I have mentioned to you. The chapters on transfers also bear the fruit of the management improvements and reorganizations of the autonomous bodies carried out throughout the legislature, with the Invied, the university defence centres being the protagonists, the fulfilment of our international obligations and, with regard to Chapter 7, INTA as a major agglutinator of R & D and advanced engineering work. With regard to Chapter 6, the department's investment management has undergone a Copernican turn that is nevertheless surprising for its simplicity and effectiveness. EMAD plans and the Directorate-General for Arms and Materials manages and controls as a procurement agency. The Secretary of State has duly informed them of the situation of the special arms programmes. Thanks to the management of this government they have greatly reduced their actual and potential cost by more than 7 billion, while, as it could not be less, commitments have been paid on time for a figure that is approaching 5 billion euros, if we take into account the bill passed last week in the Senate. They are aware of the position of this Minister and the Government, which has been repeatedly explained to them. The initial budget for 2016 re-includes only management costs, because they remain pending both to fulfil the exact obligations for that year and to certify the economic availability to assume them. We remain fully convinced that the Government has to meet its obligations to international consortia and national suppliers, and we remain fully convinced that the forced procedure by the current situation is endorsed by law, by the doctrine of the advisory bodies and by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, the adoption at the time of the departure through the law brings it into a lengthy parliamentary debate, so that not only is the expenditure not stolen from delegated sovereignty, but it is enhanced and underlined. The Government is committed to the defence, the Armed Forces and the need to equip them with the material they need. It therefore considers that a solid defence industry is a strategic resource to which Spain cannot renounce and therefore listens and responds to the operational requests of the Armed Forces. At the moment they demand that we equip them with a system of remotely piloted aircraft of strategic character that will be incorporated into the 2016 budget. At the same time, and through the use of the 464.B programme of the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism, we will have €86 million to continue in the new investment cycle with the financing of the technological projects of the future 8x8 programmes and frigate F-110. We talk about the real knowledge economy of R & D+i in what is the start of the new industrial defence policy. We are also talking about investments in a sector that generates more than 20,000 jobs in our country, which is leading and exporting, which has very high-skilled jobs, good wages and job stability and which recognizes and applauds this Government's commitment to its support. We are talking, as I said, about training and a vital capacity for our country's sovereignty. And we speak, taking up the crux of the matter, that the operation of our Armed Forces or enlistment and its ability to deal with the risks and threats that exist for our country depend directly on our ability to provide them with the best and most modern resources. This consists of deterrence, the first indispensable condition of a defence policy based on military capability. Therefore, all the reforms undertaken in investment management and industrial policy are essential, as it is essential to continue to evolve the technology available for our industrial capabilities both inside and outside Spain. That is why we believe that the third element for long-term financial-economic planning, the existence of a ministry and an updated armed forces at all its extremes, is more than fulfilled. Finally, it must be borne in mind that a new cycle of defence planning is to be carried out in the next legislature, which will undoubtedly start from a strategic economic position and from very different means and resources, much better than the situation in 2012. The 2016 budget reflects in a timely and comprehensive manner all the reformist work of this government during the parliamentary term. We have faced very difficult times, with very few resources, but we have been able to improve the entire structure precisely around the great objective of this ministry, which is nothing but to achieve the optimal operation and enlistment of our Armed Forces. In my 2012 speech I told them that the expression of the previous legislature, doing more with less, was a mantra, a beautiful phrase without any action accompanying it. On the contrary, what this Government has done has been to manage scarcity and to undertake an ambitious reform programme. We have not done more with less, but we have done much, very much, with very little. I should like to thank all the men and women of our Armed Forces and all those who serve in the civilian management bodies of the Ministry of Defence for their efforts and dedication. Without their work, under really adverse conditions, and their self-denial, we would not have obtained in any way the expected and recognized fruits within and outside Spain. Thanks to this work, we have a national defence prepared to face the increasing risks and threats and, thanks to this work, we have a defence policy framed so that, in the time frame of the next legislature, we can face the challenge of political consensus for its support and modernization. For this we will continue to work without pause. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of the amendments, Mr Tardà has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the reasons why we are now presenting an amendment to all these budgets is precisely your defence policy, and in fact here too today we will be defending a set of amendments that are going to directly criticize your policy, because we understand that when the working classes are suffering a cut in wages and rights it makes no sense for you to interfere in maintaining military spending, not as other states did, for example, when the German state at the start of this crisis reduced military spending by up to 40% because it seemed very reasonable to them to meet other more urgent demands. Who do these projects benefit? Who benefits from this maintenance of military spending? Well, the arms industry you know so well. Well, military spending in the Spanish state is almost twice what is actually budgeted, and we have denounced it many times. According to the calculations of the Centre Delàs, it amounts to more than 16 billion euros per day, that is, 40 million euros per day; in other words, each taxpayer pays 2 euros per day. But, apparently, these 40 million are not enough to pay for the weapons ambitions of the Spanish Army, of which we have already carried 30 billion of debt, that is, 15,000 euros in military spending per beard, per person. In short, the Spanish Army and the capitalism of friends, which you also know perfectly well, is quite expensive. But, beyond this immorality, especially in a time of crisis and cutbacks, there is the great immorality of financing militaristic ambition from public debt and, in fact, before the summer a real decree was already passed that expanded military spending by 800 million. That is, for defense yes, but for dependence no, although with these 800 million all people would have guaranteed the right that guarantees, at least theoretically, the Law of the Unit - I insist, right -. [[The lady]] In conclusion: one, they steal rights - health, for example - to maintain military spending; two, military spending has contributed more than 30 billion to debt generation, which then justifies the political discourse of cuts; three, they continue to expand military spending on public debt; and, four, more cuts for tomorrow. In addition, they camouflage military spending. It is true that they camouflage it because they do not collect all the planned expenditure in the budget, then extend it to the Contingency Fund and then with the above-mentioned public debt. On the other hand, the Ministry of Defence does not cover all military expenditure, it distributes it, it camouflages it in other ministries such as Education, Health or Industry. There are 500 million in a programme of the Ministry of Industry for technological innovation in the defence sector, which we Republicans have amended - by the way, it is Amendment No 2905, in case they are interested, which is not going to happen, of course -. We understand that this money should be distributed so that the autonomous communities can invest in civilian R & D+i. This is our amendment. We must also talk about soft loans from the Ministry of Industry to the sector that have not been returned and that may not be returned. So, what do we say? I hope that all industries will be treated equally by the Spanish Government, by the Ministry of Industry, of course, as the arms lobby industries are treated, and I refer to the evidence. Look, Inovyn-Solvay is a chemical industry located in Martorell, a company that is experiencing many problems, among other things, because the Ministry of Industry excluded it from the auction of energy interruptibility that was convened by the same ministry, which puts in check 2,000 jobs between direct and indirect in the district of Baix Llobregat Nord. [[Mr. Tardà i Coma shows a poster]] Only with you devoting a hundredth of your interest in the arms industry to profitable productive industries, which may be experiencing certain difficulties, only with which you would devote the same interest, would it be possible that Inovyn-Solvay was not in check; in check and perhaps kill. [[Mr. Tardà i Coma shows the same sign]] Unless you finally accept from entry what we have begged, begged, demanded, demanded: that you, the government, the Ministry of Industry, meet with the company, with industry and with the workers. So I think that the contradiction is served, I think that you should make an effort to understand where the real productive wealth is and where is what it is to be subordinated to the armamentistic, opaque lobbies and which offer no profit beyond the perverse discourse of generating societies in which only the speculation of fear dominates. [[Mr Tardà i Coma continues his speech in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u114	Mr. Tardà, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u115	Mr. Morenes, even if it's not your negotiation, it might be worth it, even if it was just out of interest...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u116	Mr. Tardà, your time is up. Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u117	...and a bit of bad conscience, helping those workers. Thank you very much. [[Once he has left the rostrum, Mr. Tardà i Coma shows the sign again]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u118	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group has a very clear track record in everything that has to do with defence budgets. First, there are a number of facts that we take into account: first, the Armed Forces are one of the institutions, if not the institution, most valued by Spanish society. Secondly, we are in a context where almost daily there is an increase in risks and threats to national security. In recent weeks, the problem of refugees has been added to everything we already had of threats from jihadism, failed States at our borders, illegal immigration and so on. Thirdly, there is a systematic reduction in defence budgets not only under the crisis, but clearly since 2000, at least I have investigated it since 2000. The result is that, even by putting the amounts of the EPAs, the special arms programmes, the defence budget for 2016 would be around 0.90%, would not reach 1%. The proposals or suggestions of international bodies such as NATO are that we should be devoting 2%. In this context of realities, which is where the Ministry of Defence has to move - I understand that Minister Morenes has to come here to defend the budgets of his Government, of the Government in which he participates -, our parliamentary group tries to defend the general interest of the country and, therefore, considers from this perspective that the increase in the defence budget that is collected for 2016 is manifestly insufficient. Moreover, I would dare say that in these 2016 budgets they are paying the consequences of last year being one of the privileged ministries comparatively in terms of the increase. Our group believes - and the amendments we have tabled go in that direction - that, above and beyond this clearly insufficient increase due to the cumulative fall of more than a decade and a half, it is poorly distributed and, worse, it continues to apply for two very clear headings - that of the EPAs and the costs of participation in pacification operations - conditions of exceptionality, of extraordinary credits, of extraordinary routes which, in our modest opinion, only feed the complex, which in this case affects the People's Group and the Government, of which we could call childishism on the left and of which we have just had a paradigmatic example at this very sitting. It is an approach that identifies defense with militarism, militarism with bellicism, bellicism with superfluous spending and therefore the Armed Forces must be systematically cut. There is one thing that is evident in all the countries that suffer from it and is that governments have to decide not between cannons or butter, but they have to take care of cannons and butter, that is to say, security and in addition to welfare requirements. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Who finds out? Ask the Syrian refugees, who as a result of a civil war have to go refugees to another country. The question of national security is important. Of course it is! Only simple and childish approaches can be used. And what I regret is that the Government and the People's Party have fallen into this trap, and that is why we are tabling amendments calling for expenditure on special arms programmes and on expenditure arising from peacekeeping participation operations to be included as regular items within the budget and not to be told that it is not known or not possible because the budgets are not the ten commandments on the stone tables, but can be partially modified when they have been approved. Why do we have to do this? For a double question. Firstly, because it ensures better control, especially in the case of the AEPs, because sometimes there are excesses of the companies that are developing these complex programmes and budgets are triggered. The case of the S-80 submarine programme is paradigmatic, it must be controlled, and it is this House that must control it, but also because of a question of civic pedagogy. Defence issues must be treated as ordinary issues, as ordinary as expenditures on investment and civilian infrastructure. In the same vein, we also propose amendments to improve the remuneration conditions of the personnel of the Armed Forces, not only from the point of view of economic remuneration, but also of working conditions, although we recognise in these budgets, for example, that there is an improvement in the amounts devoted to the training of personnel of the Armed Forces. Finally, we have tabled amendments, because we find it conceptually contradictory that the operational costs of the Armed Forces should be increased, although this is a slight increase, and at the same time the costs of logistics should continue to be cut. There can be no good operation of the Armed Forces with a logistics with increasingly cut-off financial resources. That is why we have tabled amendments so that, through the revenue that can be obtained from the Defence Housing Institute, those resources are directly allocated to recover part of the loss in logistics. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u120	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u121	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a budget must necessarily be a reflection of the policy that the Government is going to develop in order to meet the objective needs of the government and, therefore, its preparation requires a clear exercise of practicality that reaches the economic point. It seems redundant to say this, but for us and for us it is important to stress it because, in the case of the defence budget that you put before us, none of these circumstances are fulfilled. This budget lacks any rigour, because it neither meets the first of the conditions, i.e. it is not a reflection of its political will, because it does not economically record the expenses that will come from its political decisions, nor responds to this serious exercise of concreteness that in the case of the General Budgets of the State should be the subject of this debate. In other words, the People's Party is committing us to a policy that is not budgeting, and that is what you have come here to justify from the rostrum. You do not budget the commitments you make, and that, in addition to being a temerity, which in this case is hypothecating the country and its security, is an insult to Parliament and the Spanish people, to which you, one year and another, are also deceiving in a very clear way. I will remind you of the futility of your defence budgets throughout the entire legislature. From 2012 to 2015, with budgetary liquidation in hand - because one thing is what you put in the red volumes and another thing is what you then execute - the increase in the Ministry of Defence alone spending on the budget is more than 8,700 million extra-budgetary euros, mainly in charge of public debt. The objective of these credits - as has already been said here - are two fundamental questions: the sending of troops abroad and, of course, the purchase of arms. In addition, all this has occurred in the worst economic and social context in Spain, in a brutal crisis, at a time of wild cuts, and yet, no matter how much they justify defence cuts, you have continued to increase extra-budgetaryly what is stated in the budgets: 30% more than the budgeted in 2012; 24.5 % in 2013; 25.2 % in 2014; and this year, according to the progress accompanying these budgets, 27.4 %. More of the same today. We are told that we do not reach the 2% that NATO advises on military investment and spending, but that is not true. If we add the yellow book that we are going to spend this year, 1.4 billion, according to the Secretary of State's appearance, with the budget, we are already above 2% of the budget. Moreover, they are weapons that we finance, as has already been said here, through the Ministry of Industry; therefore, they are also hypothecating the defense and starting a very dangerous rearmament cycle, given how the weaving is at international level. Over the past 20 years more than EUR 20.5 billion has been granted in loans to industry, EUR 20.5 billion and, according to the Secretary of State, we have recovered 141 until 2015 and it seems that this year we will recover another 117. Poor balance sheet, less than 1 % of the total of these credits advanced to the arms industry. This year they budget more commitments, including drones, and we ask why. For what defence policy? Because that is what we want to talk to you about and be able to discuss with you, as it seems that your intervention has begun by holding hands with that debate. That's fine with us, but we could have started this legislature like this. Why don't you want to budget your commitments to armaments? For us there is no other explanation, Minister, than that of concealing military spending, there is no other explanation than that of not putting black on white with regard to how much and why we are investing in defence in this country. We are faced with a clear and obvious case of budget fraud one year after another in the field of defence. We do not believe their budgets, and the most dangerous thing is that what is invested in military spending is hidden, but basically what is hidden is, I say again, for what policy we are investing in the case of defence. Therefore, let me not create their budgets; budgets that also go beyond the scope of the ministry and affect virtually all ministries, so the defence budget goes off. The second major issue that we want to put on the table, and which has to do with that defence policy, is why they do not properly record, as a clear element, the departure of troops abroad. The answer is simple. They are totally incapable of knowing how much we are going to spend because you definitely don't decide where we should go or not and where we should send our army, our Armed Forces, or not. This has been said many times from this rostrum by the spokesman for the People's Party. It is absolutely impossible to predict the commitments we are going to have on sending troops abroad, recognizing de facto that Spain has absolutely given up all its sovereignty - of which you have started talking - to another organization. That is regrettable because it is NATO that determines it, after the European Union, Europe and the United Nations gave in to the preponderance of the military role all their foreign and defence policy. That is a very important problem at the moment, and there, both the Socialist Party and the People's Party over the years have participated in this transfer of sovereignty to NATO. We are living in very convulsive times, we do not need to say this, in which, once again, the fear of such threats and other factors is serving as an alibi to increase military tension in very sensitive areas and the improvement of the positions of the alliance in ever closer territories. Moron and Rota are clear examples of this; now we are going to have a NATO maneuver exercise - the biggest since the cold war - the Trident Juncture, which does nothing but increase that level of tension dangerously. Minister, the Mediterranean, North Africa or the border with Russia in Ukraine do not need any more military tension, they do not need it; we need more cooperation, we need more humanitarian attention, more diplomacy and, above all, in the case of refugees, the recognition of the right to asylum and refuge. It cannot be marketed with a fundamental right, it must be guaranteed. We are not talking about the drawing of people who play their lives, we cannot assume that policy which is showing Europe absolutely pathetically. [[Applauds]] However, Spain continues to assume this policy, it continues to participate in the perverse strategy that implies, first, supporting destabilisation processes that then give rise to spaces in war or failed states, which serve to justify the presence in areas absolutely vital from a political, economic and geostrategic point of view, Minister. Perhaps you could recall Hillary Clinton's words about the role of the United States in the birth of Al Qaeda...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u122	Mr. Sanz...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u123	I'm done. I recommend you remember them, maybe that would allow you to understand what I'm talking about. Have we not learned enough in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya or Syria? In short, we believe that we must have that debate, that we must change our defence policy, which we share, which must exist. In the meantime, we have put on the table a number of fundamental amendments to improve the situation of our Armed Forces because, in parallel with their modernization in operational matters, they have undergone a very clear policy of cuts, rights and freedoms. Our group has tabled several amendments in this direction to improve the Military Career Act, the Troop and Marinery Act, the Armed Forces and Military Rights and Duties Act, and we believe that they are absolutely essential to improve the situation. We are very concerned about the mortgages that you are leaving, but we are reassured that you will soon cease to occupy the Government of this country. Let us hope that at that time we can have a calm, calm debate to determine what our foreign policy is and what our defence policy should be and not the current policy of servileness and dangerous commitments that do nothing but increase tension and insecurity for our country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u124	Thank you, Mr. Sanz. Is only you, Mr Xuclà, going to intervene for the Convergence I d'Unió Group? [[Consent]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you were told last week when you brought in the army and the territorial debate that is currently taking place in Spain. Today I do not want to go back to the debate that you raised, but in the key phrases that were reproduced in the media I was particularly drawn to the attention of the use that you made of the expression "rulers and rulers", especially because you had not heard the definition of "rulers" in a democratic society, in a democratic Parliament for a long time. I believe that you defined a certain concept of democracy on the part of the majority group and the government, perhaps in your own name. And I thought, maybe we could define the rulers as democratic politicians serving free citizens to decide, which would be what you called the rulers. And these free citizens, in order to be able to decide, the first thing they have to know and know is the exact scope of the budgets if we have to heed the most usual definition of the budget, which says it is the accounting expression of a political will. And from the various sections that we are discussing this afternoon - and this morning and yesterday - the most remote thing between the political will and the accounting expression is that of the defence budgets. We have tabled an amendment in its entirety and have tabled partial amendments to the sections. As you have no doubt invoked in your initial intervention the responsibility of politicians and the Government for the high responsibility for the management of public revenue, we cannot in any way support budgets so far away from accounting expression and political will at the end of each accounting year. False? More than false, inaccurate, because they do not incorporate international missions - as has been said - but especially because on 26 September 2011, at the end of the previous parliamentary term, the Socialist Government made public commitments worth more than 30 billion in special arms programmes; because in his first appearance before the Defence Commission, the Secretary of State for Defence, Pedro Argüelles, called for consensus and political pact between parliamentary groups to deal with these commitments worth more than 30 billion and because in time of legislative discount, no consensus or pact or accounting expression; extraordinary credits year after year, five extraordinary credits, the last with a legal and political will to be covered through a real-decree law that has subsequently been processed as a bill. [[in particular]] Since sometimes the best defence is a good attack, the Minister of Defence has come up to this rostrum and has given us two very relevant figures, ladies and gentlemen, which we have only a month and a few weeks to discuss and clarify in the parliamentary sphere. He has informed us that the Government has already faced the payment of some EUR 5 billion for special arms programmes and has also informed us that the Government has managed to reduce the commitments by EUR 7 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these two data are extraordinarily relevant and are not known and not discussed in this House, but announced in passing by the minister in the presentation of the last budgets of the legislature. You say that only management costs can be budgeted. It means that the call for consensus by Mr Pedro Argüelles at the beginning of the parliamentary term has not been successful, that you have approved because of the extraordinary and urgent need paid for more than EUR 5 billion and that by means not known to Parliament or public opinion you have reduced arms programmes by EUR 7 billion. Minister, in this short month of our term of office, I invite you to have parliamentary debate and information in plenary and the Commission on how you have reduced these €7 billion from the special arms programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still two more reasons why the Convergence i d'Unió Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to the Defence Section as a whole. The expenses of international missions are not sufficiently known, authorized or monitored by Parliament. While there is a proper authorization for the initiation or extension of international missions, there is no knowledge of the credit enhancements that need to be made in international missions. This is to steal the data from Parliament, failing to comply with its obligation to know, manage and authorize it, because the government does not account for it. Finally, Minister, this parliamentary term ends with a management of the Ministry of Defence of those real estate that have ceased to have an interest in the frankly improved defence. They have been able to have more physical presence on the territory than the strategic presence of the defense, being many of these properties absolutely useless for the defense. They have not had the capacity to engage in dialogue with local and regional administrations to give them a better way out. I could give you examples, from the Bruc to the territorial Defence delegation in Girona, practically empty. But you have preferred this in the logic of what the Minister defines as the relationship between rulers and rulers. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to this whole section 14, Defence, of the budgets for 2016 - that is to say - which is actually an amendment to the whole of the defence policy that the People's Party Government has developed in this parliamentary term in its budget projection, which has not had special difficulties in many respects due to the attitude of the Socialist Group. Since the beginning of the parliamentary term, the Socialist Group has come up with a line of work in defence policy supported by the attempt at consensus, the attempt to agree on a policy par excellence of the State, such as defence policy. The proof of this is that we have supported all the international missions, we have supported the completion of the legislative modernization of the Armed Forces initiated by the Socialist Governments of Rodríguez Zapatero in the last two legislatures, we have agreed to the launch of the Observatory of Military Life, the reform of the Military Career Act, the disciplinary regime of the Armed Forces, coming from mandates, of laws passed in previous legislatures. It has not been possible in the Military Penal Code because its weakness in the cabinet, Mr Morenes, has caused the Minister of the Interior - which, by the way, is appearing in his statements about the refugees - to have imposed himself on the Ministry of Defence and to have doubled his arm, imposing a greater remilitarization of the Civil Guard in application of the Military Penal Code which we reject and which has also been strengthened surprisingly - I did not imagine that they would arrive at that - in the Senate itself. He said that we have always had a constructive and consensus attitude in European defence policy, in defence policy born of the Atlantic Alliance, in national security, in relations with the United States - we have supported the protocols to amend the Defence Convention with the United States -. Faced with this, when things came from abroad in this legislature, when they were cooked or made from an international point of view in terms of missions, NATO policy or the United States, the government has followed the current and acted on most occasions correctly. But to the extent that the Government has had to take initiative, that it did not come from outside, but that it had to take initiative on its own, it has been nothing, a policy without objectives, without strategy - another very military term - and the proof of this is that the Government and the People's Group have always said no to those proposals for dialogue that we have made since the beginning of the legislature through non-legislative proposals or amendments to the budgets; for example, on armaments, on the army model, on defence industry policy, on the multiannual programming of defence investments. And today, you seem to anticipate a turnaround, admitting something that is being proposed by the Socialist Group, which is the need for a multi-annual programming of defence investments and, therefore, I hope that the People's Group today will finally vote in favour of this amendment, which says: The Government, before the submission of the General State Budgets for 2017, next year, will refer to the General Courts a draft law on the multi-annual programming of military investments. I hope that Mr Ferrer will vote in favour of this amendment 358 because I understand that this is what the minister has come to say, but very late, after our group has advocated this whole parliamentary term a turn that seems important and positive to me and that other countries are taking. That is why we have seen in the Government a defence policy without ambition - another military term - a policy that has passed without pain or glory - that of the Government, that of the Minister of Defence - except in one thing: special arms programmes. There has been an obsession with paying religiously for special arms programmes; it is the only thing the Government has taken the initiative to pay for the AEPs. We have never said that we should not pay for the EPAs, but there has been neither the renegotiation nor the reprogramming that we expected, and now we anticipate something that Mr Xuclà - he has set himself - about EUR 7 billion in savings, which we do not know where they come from. Our group is going to ask for his immediate appearance so that he can explain it to us because we had no idea that such savings had occurred, which of course has not been explained to us. On the contrary, the government has gone through the decree-law, as we know - which we have appealed - and in a rather improvised way, Minister. We learned on Saturday that there is a decree-law on ministerial expenses - among them, one of 20 million for the Ministry of Defence - in full budget debate, a decree-law on ministry expenses, which is the greatest improvisation, unpredictability and bulwark seen. It is to be noted that in the midst of the budget debate there is a decree-law on expenditure by the ministries and, among them, by the Ministry of Defence. I believe that here, in this matter of the EPAs, there has been a stupendous political failure, you have not been able to reach an agreement with the parliamentary groups. In fact, the lack of objectives of defence policy is what has made you a great absentee in this House in parliamentary relations of government and opposition. We have repeatedly asked him to come. You did not come to the Defence Committee once at the request of the parliamentary groups, which is where we can discuss in depth, and not only to talk about the issues I mentioned earlier, but also about such important issues as the situation of women in the Armed Forces, the meetings of ministers of the Union, NATO, the disciplinary regime, the coalition's actions in the fight against the Islamic State. You have refused to come always, you have never come to the Commission to discuss all these issues that we have asked of you. So you leave - that will be your inheritance - outstanding matters. In our amendment 359 we propose that the next Government, which we believe will not be yours, should put forward a communication on the organizational structure of the Armed Forces, on the financing of the EPAs and on plans for the development of the defence industry. I repeat, it will be a government, not yours...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u128	Mr. López Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u129	We are convinced that it will be a socialist government that will have to deal with these tasks, and it will do so with an open, non-monolithic, Europeanist, state-based perspective and with a policy close to the military and citizens, whom the Armed Forces always serve, as the Constitution says, under the leadership of the government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u130	Thank you, Mr. López Garrido. For the People's Group, Mr Ferrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u131	Mr Tardà, if you spent a hundredth of your personal and economic effort on dangerous secessionist adventures on the problems of the industry in Catalonia, you probably wouldn't have the problems you have right now. That's my modest opinion, Mr. Tardà. I am not going to repeat the Minister's right words. For the People's Group, the defence budget consolidates the upward trend, is balanced, is prudent, contributes to deepening the process of recovery of the country and fulfils the objective that the Constitution and the laws attribute to the Armed Forces and that it is nothing other than to guarantee the integrity, independence and national sovereignty together with the system of rights and freedoms that we have given ourselves. Allow me to group the amendments in order to answer them. Firstly, the fundamental argument in the amendments to the whole or the refund refers to the misappropriation of amounts to meet the costs arising from external operations and special arms programmes. I have explained to you on numerous occasions that operations abroad are absolutely unpredictable. Don Álvaro, we could withdraw from Lebanon or the Horn of Africa and see them cut in half, or perhaps Spain and its allies could take into account the multiple voices that today demand a determined intervention in Syria, Iraq or Lebanon to end the Daesh threat and allow the return of refugees. This would mean that we would multiply that expenditure by five or ten. With regard to the AEPs, what is fixed and predictable for this Government is expenditure on health, expenditure on education, social assistance, unemployment assistance or pensions. The money allocated to the acquisition of military equipment, however, depends on the evolution of economic data, also depends on the negotiation with the companies and, finally, on the pace of delivery of the purchased units. It is remarkable that the People's Party is accused of pretending to hide, because if the People's Party intends to hide this expenditure by the procedure of publishing it in the State Official Gazette, in the Official Defence Bulletin and in the Official Gazette of this House and bring it to the debate in plenary, we have a unique way of hiding the issues. We have discussed the issue until exhaustion. You have appealed to the courts and you are in your right, I will not discuss it. But I must admit that it is striking to me in the case of the Socialist Party, especially if we bear in mind that this Government has used exactly the same system as that used by the Socialist Party Government, which is still a very curious thing. We have used the same system until you changed your policy and decided to do what my children call a simple defense, which was to leave us hanging two years in a row. Don Diego, may you accuse us of paying your debts seems frankly very remarkable. There is another set of amendments which seek to increase investment in the most varied chapters. In the philosophy of many of them we could coincide, we could agree. We would also like to spend more money on logistics, fuel purchase, material maintenance or social assistance, for example. But if we detract for these menesteres the quantities from where you say we must detract them, and this is the problem that it has, if we detract the funds from those items, we would be left without observation satellites, without electronic war, without fuel or communications networks, without cyber defence, without fuel for the EMU and without being able to transfer our military, and this, as you will understand, is impossible. This leaves us with a single possibility, which is to significantly increase our country's defence budget. And look, for now, we're not gonna do it. This Government will be prudent and will not significantly increase military spending, at least for the time being. We are aware that there are many threats and that we will have to face this commitment in the near future, but not now, ladies and gentlemen. At the moment, we are betting on reversing the trend of recent years and using existing resources as efficiently as possible. Many of the honourable Members' amendments convey the idea that Spain spends too much on its defence and that is a false argument at the root, it is dangerously irresponsible and profoundly unfair with the effort and sacrifice made by our military. The Defence budget is the one that has suffered the most cuts as a result of the economic crisis. More than a third in absolute terms. Spain allocates 0,6 % of GDP to its defence, and if we add to it all those investments that you seem to deny or hate and that we understand that you meet the needs of national defence, it barely reaches 0,9 %. This puts us directly in line with the countries in our environment, the European Union or NATO and far from the 2% Cardiff Summit target. Despite this, our military has done a splendid job, and I do not want it to be undervalued or intended to manipulate citizens either, especially because the only thing they would achieve would be to open a gap between each other with fatal consequences. Finally, the Socialist Party is introducing a number of amendments to study the model of the Armed Forces and its funding. I don't understand. We have offered you and the rest of the political forces a great deal of agreement on this, an agreement that would define the needs of the defence and give stability to its budgetary framework. You haven't even bothered to answer us. This agreement has been offered to him on several occasions by the Minister, it has been offered to him by the Secretary of State and I have offered it myself from this rostrum on more than five occasions. You will understand that we cannot accept or seriously consider your proposals today. Finally, I also say goodbye to Mr Tardá. You, as always, offer us to transform all military effort into civilian effort; to allocate money for ammunition, for artillery, for money for charitable operations, or to pretend that the Navy's fuel is devoted to humanitarian operations or to reduce the army by half. He has failed only to propose to license the legion goat and dedicate it to the production of cheese; it is the only thing he has missed. Thank you so much. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u132	Thank you, Mr Ferrer. We move on to the debate on section 23, Agriculture, Food and Environment. For her presentation and defence, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u133	Thank you, President. Before we begin, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize in advance for having to leave the House before this debate is over, but I must inevitably take a plane at 7:30 p.m. I have the honour to present to this House the draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment for the financial year 2016, a budget that responds to the commitment of the Government to the development and growth of our country and to the promotion of the well-being of all its citizens. It has been developed in the context of the consolidation of an economic cycle change, which allows us to strengthen all those policies that result in direct benefits for our farmers, our farmers, our fishermen and our environment, that is, for society as a whole, and will contribute to the continuation and consolidation of this growth path. First of all, I will refer to its large figures and continue with the planned allocations to cover various policies and programmes of the department. The consolidated budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment for 2016 amounts to 9,765.9 million euros. As regards data for the State subsector, the unconsolidated budget will be EUR 1,976.6 million, virtually the same as last year. For the Section 23, Agriculture, Food and Environment autonomous bodies and the State Meteorology Agency the forecast is 8.391.95 million. With regard to the broad lines of expenditure policy, agriculture, fisheries and food policy will have a budget of EUR 7.438.2 million. The infrastructure policy, which includes actions on water resources and the environment, will reach €2,098.7 million. Meteorology policy will have 122 million. I have already broken down the Ministry's broad lines and programmes of action in 2016. In terms of staff costs, the budget for the next financial year amounts to EUR 365.7 million. In connection with this chapter, I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation and personal gratitude for the dedication and dedication of the nearly 10,000 people who are members of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment. His extraordinary work has made it possible in these years to achieve great achievements for the sector and for the whole of Spanish society. The Directorate-General for Agriculture, Food and Environment Services programme, which includes current expenditure on goods and services of the Ministry, without considering autonomous bodies and the Spanish Meteorology Agency, will be reduced by 6.7%, to EUR 38.5 million. If we include expenditure under Chapter 2 of autonomous bodies and Aemet, the adjustment amounts to EUR 7 million less than in 2015, i.e. a total of EUR 363,8 million. This is the result of the continuous improvement of management efficiency that allows us to maximize the funds allocated to policies that benefit citizens, who are with whom we have made a commitment. With regard to agricultural insurance policy, I am pleased to announce that, for the first time in six years, there is an increase in the allocation for agricultural insurance under the programme for forecasting risks in agricultural production. This is an increase of 6.1%, i.e. EUR 12 million, with a total allocation of EUR 211 million. This will increase the recruitment and insurance of insurance options with increased coverage, thereby strengthening the protection of farmers and livestock farmers against a greater number of risks. In addition, for needs that may arise throughout the year in the event of disasters and contingencies in the agricultural sector, we have foreseen an allocation of EUR 4.3 million. As regards the budget of the General Secretariat for Agriculture and Food, the programme on competitiveness and quality of production and agricultural markets amounts to EUR 32 million, 29% more than in 2015. This programme highlights the new €5 million budget dedicated to promoting the modernisation of agricultural machinery and technology in order to promote sustainable and more environmentally efficient use of agricultural machinery and technology, thereby also improving the competitiveness of the sector, and another half million dedicated to supporting its technical management. The budget dedicated to the testing and testing of tractors and other agricultural machinery for approval has also been increased by EUR 1 million. Integrated management of animal feed has been enhanced with 731,000 euros and with 700,000 euros the system of wine, fruit and vegetable information and table olives. The competitiveness programme of the agri-food industry and food quality has a budget of EUR 25.3 million, 38.4 % more than in 2015. This improvement has made possible the increase of almost all the lines included in Chapter 6, real investments, such as that dedicated to support for differentiated quality and organic agriculture, with EUR 872,630, i.e. 229% more than in 2015; the contribution to promotion and support for internationalisation, with EUR 6.6 million, 95% more than in 2015, and support for national and international fairs, with EUR 3.1 million, 121 % more than in 2015. As regards the actions in Chapter 7, capital transfers, the contribution to the promotion of agricultural co-operativeism for the structuring of supply, a priority of this government since the beginning of the legislature, with 3.5 million euros, 40% more than in 2015, and to the subsidies of the High Training Plan for managers of agri-food enterprises, with 353,000 euros, 38% more. In the area of rural development and forestry policy, the first thing to highlight is that for the period 2014-2020, in addition to the autonomous rural development programmes, a national rural development programme has been drawn up. The management of this national programme is divided between the Directorate-General for Rural Development and Forestry Policy, which has EUR 32.5 million, and the Spanish Agricultural Guarantee Fund, which has EUR 12.36 million. On the other hand, the Ministry guarantees its share of participation in the rural development programmes of the Autonomous Communities, with a reserve of EUR 119.5 million to transfer to the Autonomous Communities for their respective rural development programmes. Another priority policy will be - as it has been over the years - the fight against forest fires and reforestation actions. Both lines have been increased, the first up to EUR 84 million, and the second up to EUR 20 million. Water resources management for irrigation has 68.86 million euros, 53.6% more than in 2015. It includes a new irrigated investment line with €48.2 million, 19.42 % higher than 2015. The programme for competitiveness and quality of agricultural health also increases its budget by 2.8%, to EUR 36 million. Expenditure has been prioritized to maintain and strengthen areas such as the registration of plant protection products, support for the opening of new markets and foreign trade, national programmes for the prevention and control of pests in plant health and state programmes for the eradication of animal diseases, with €4.28 million, €3.51 million, €6 million and €8 million respectively. The Food Information and Control Agency maintains its budget of 635,000 euros. In the financial year 2016, in addition to the powers performed so far, it will assume official control of designations of origin, protected geographical indications of supraautonomic scope granted through Law 6/2015 of 12 May. As regards the EAGGF, most of its budget corresponds to the revenue and expenditure of the common agricultural policy. In the budget of this autonomous body, expenditure on direct aid to farmers and farmers and market regulation measures under Feaga will be EUR 5,747.38 million; this is 2.7% higher than the year 2015 in the funds of the common agricultural policy. The EAFRD rural development budget amounts to €866.9 million. In addition, under the other State social services programme, it is important to highlight EUR 107 million, five more than in 2015, from the European Fund for the Most Disadvantaged to implement the food aid programme for the most deprived. In 2016, national aid to the school milk programme, which will have 5.2 million euros, will also be launched. I now turn to the budgets for fisheries policy amounting to EUR 65.5 million. This allocation for the Spanish fishing sector will make it possible to optimise the fishing opportunities of our fleet and ensure the satisfactory exercise of this important economic activity. Not only did we consolidate last year's increase, but its budget was again increased by 1.57%. The financing of our fisheries policy is reinforced by three fundamental pillars for the proper and better management of fisheries resources for the benefit not only of today's but also of tomorrow's fishermen: searching for the best available scientific data, achieving maximum sustainable yield and monitoring compliance with existing regulations. The budget takes account of the forthcoming approval of the operational programme for the Spanish fisheries sector, which will make it possible to make full use of the new European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. In order to improve fisheries structures and markets, EUR 48.8 million will be allocated to finance, in agreement with the autonomous communities, fleet adjustment activities such as temporary and permanent cessations of fishing activity and the uniform application of these measures throughout the national territory. Following the entry into force of the new Common Market Organisation for the fisheries and aquaculture sector, a budget of EUR 4 million is envisaged to finance sectoral aid lines for the production and marketing plans of fisheries producer organisations and their associations and to improve the sales chain of their products. The area of control and inspection is strengthened, with an increase of 2.72%, highlighting the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing from which we have spent the last three years being leaders in the European Union, and this has become evident following the conduct of numerous control operations, although I would like to highlight, as inspection and control of important international impacts, operations Sparrow 1 and Sparrow 2. The protection of fisheries resources and sustainable development is provided with EUR 16.7 million. Scientific research, which will have a budget of EUR 11 million, will be enhanced; this will enable further fishing and oceanographic campaigns to obtain the best scientific advice. The aquaculture will have 1.87 million, compared to the 167,000 euros of 2015 and the national plans of marine crops and the development of the strategic plan of the Spanish aquaculture to promote and diversify the aquaculture activity will be implemented with these funds. In addition, in accordance with the landing obligation laid down in the new common fisheries policy, funds are allocated for studies to minimise the effects of the ban on discards. Its purpose is the development of an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable fishing activity. Finally, I should like to refer to the budgets for environmental policies. The total consolidated budget of the Secretariat of State for the Environment for 2016, including autonomous bodies and the State Meteorology Agency, amounts to EUR 1,370.4 million. To these must be added the 483.9 million that will invest the state water societies. Water policy is a priority for this Government. In this legislature we have updated hydrological planning and have committed to a balanced and supportive management of water. We are also working to ensure the provision of an essential public service by fulfilling the obligations of the European Union. Overall, the Directorate-General for Water, water confederations and state-owned companies will invest more than EUR 1,252 million. 589 million will be allocated to the water infrastructure management programme to implement the measures and actions envisaged in the hydrological plans with the aim of ensuring supply, as well as to respond to extreme weather events, such as floods or droughts. With a budget of EUR 179.3 million, the water quality programme will make it possible to continue to make orderly progress in the area of purification and sanitation, i.e. to improve the quality of our waters, the water of our rivers and thereby improve our environment. The €483.9 million invested by state water companies will be earmarked for supply, sanitation and irrigation. For the sustainability of the coast and the sea, the action programme on the coast will have an investment of 64.78 million euros. This appropriation will be intended to control coastal regression, protect and recover coastal systems, ensure the integrity of the maritime-terrestrial public domain, maintain the good environmental status of the marine environment and restore accessibility to the coast in order to ensure its use and enjoyment by citizens. In addition, coastal protection strategies will be put in place and we will continue to implement the coastal adaptation strategy to the effects of climate change. The environmental protection and improvement programme will have EUR 12 million and will help to improve, speed up and streamline environmental assessment procedures. It will also allow for the development of air quality assessment actions or related to noise pollution, the application of aspects of existing waste legislation or the development of the future State Waste Management Framework Plan. Under the protection and improvement of the natural environment programme, EUR 16.8 million will be allocated to actions to protect biodiversity, restore and recover degraded ecosystems, reduce or eliminate threats to native biodiversity or prevent and combat invasive alien species. The action programme for pollution prevention and climate change will have a budget of EUR 49 million. A new budget of 18 million will be made available for the implementation of new environmental stimulus plans, and EUR 17 million will be allocated to PIMA Adapta for actions to adapt to climate change on our coasts, in the area of water and biodiversity, 42% more than in 2015, i.e. EUR 5 million more. The carbon fund will provide €9.18 million to meet a new and extensive call for climate projects. This consolidates our climate change policy. We dedicate EUR 45 million to effectively reducing greenhouse gas emissions in our country; EUR 45 million to change our economic model to a low carbon model and we do not want to buy emission allowances from other countries, as I say, by encouraging the low carbon economy in Spain, by encouraging the reduction of greenhouse gases in Spain, so that we can also make an environmental policy that contributes to the generation of employment. The Autonomous National Parks Agency will have 21.7 million euros destined mainly for the promotion and strengthening of the functions of general coordination. Through common and horizontal programmes, the network of parks, strengthened after the adoption of Law 30/2014 on National Parks, will be vertebrate and cohesive. The 60.2 million euros of the State Meteorological Agency will ensure the adequacy of the infrastructures for meteorological observation and predictions and provide for the payment of contributions to international meteorological bodies. The Biodiversity Foundation, with €7.62 million, will be able to undertake more than 30 initiatives in the development of its strategic lines of action. In short, the budget allocation for environmental actions increases the investment effort made by the Government, which has made the environment an ally of economic and social growth in a sustainable way. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the department for 2016 that I have just presented has the necessary resources to carry out the actions required by the Spanish agri-food and fisheries sector and the improvement of our environment, thus contributing to the further promotion of economic growth and employment generation in Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u134	Thank you, Minister. Let's start the turn to defend amendments. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, once again, and following the general budget of this government of Mariano Rajoy, the Ministry of Agriculture reduces by 19 million what is intended for Galicia and does so, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when two productive sectors of great importance to the Galician economy are in deep crisis: the fisheries sector and the agricultural sector. The crisis in the agricultural sector is no longer a crisis, but a ruin of agricultural holdings, so that farmers have now been forced to make a number of changes, trying to find solutions to the very serious problem of the low price of milk at source, which is being or is lower than the costs of production. So serious is the situation, ladies and gentlemen, that the farmers have been forced to increase as their mobilization actions passed the weeks because they were not given a solution, reaching a high level in these weeks and specifically today. It is true that the Government is announcing that negotiations are under way with the three main sectors: farmers, industry and distributors, but it is also true that those agreements that can be reached are not reliable for the livestock sector because it does not have a number of issues as they can be, even sanctioning measures. We say this, Minister, because we cannot miss the time to discuss agricultural budgets without drawing attention to the price of milk at source. The situation is so ruinous that, ladies and gentlemen, we started the year talking about 10,000 Galician farms in crisis and today we are talking about 9,500 or even less. According to statistics, a livestock holding is closing every day as a result of the serious situation they suffer. That is why we cannot understand that, with a situation like this, the ministry reduces its budget in relation to Galicia by 19 million euros when it had already decreased in similar amounts in previous years. Hence our amendments to boost the dairy sector and hence the request for 50 million to act directly on this sector and the crisis situation it is experiencing. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting other amendments which seek to revalue the ecological value of our mountains or rural development programmes which allow population settlements, which allow rural areas to develop and which not only act in relation to the agricultural sector, but also the welfare conditions that people who decide to work in the rural world and in the agricultural sector, as important for the Galician economy as I said at the beginning. These amendments aimed at agriculture, the dairy sector and the upgrading of the mountains are also accompanied by something I referred to as the beginning of a sector in crisis, the fisheries sector, and include EUR 10 million for the fisheries sector. We do not know whether the Government is waiting to find solutions to those low quotas that the fence sector has in Galicia, to remobilise as they have already done - they have been forced to do so on other occasions - or they are going to solve the complaints that the sector is making today to the ministry, to the minister, Mrs Tejerina. Therefore, while waiting for solutions to be given by increasing quotas to this sector of the fisheries fence in Galicia, we are presenting this EUR 10 million amendment for aid not only to the sector, but to that economy which is suffering from the crisis in these areas which are eminently dependent on fisheries, as are many of the peoples of the Galician coast. [[The Lord]] We do not want to forget, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a number of amendments which we are tabling on environmental issues. In fact, the reductions that have been made in these budgets of the People's Party Government are related to the abandonment by the Government of environmental projects and the quality of the water, which is the same subject. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot make an explicit mention of all the amendments tabled in this area, but we do want to outline some of them as an example of the needs we have at the moment in Galicia. With regard to water quality, which would also result in this necessary well-being in rural areas, there are, ladies and gentlemen, unfulfilled commitments, such as the Santiago EDAR, which should be completed in 2013. For this work we are presenting an amendment of 3 million euros, which we hope that if not in the amount we propose, the Government will be able to assume to continue with these works which, as I say, should be completed. The recovery of the estuary, the sanitation of the estuary or the environmental recovery of the Galician coast is a necessity too often expressed by our group and expressed by the reality which emanates from Galicia and which, despite being so often expressed, has not been taken into account by this Government when it comes to the infrastructure necessary to deal with these works and actions aimed at improving the quality of the waters of our estuary and of our coastline, despite, ladies and gentlemen, as we have said on many other occasions, that a fine is imposed from the European Union on the Spanish State precisely because it does not solve these situations of pollution, mainly of Galician estuary. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, and I conclude, Mr President, with specific amendments for certain areas of the Galician coast, we also have other amendments relating to the various areas of our country. We want to highlight an amendment of EUR 25 million, because we want the Government, the People's Group, to support the regeneration of the ria.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u136	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u137	I'm done, Mr. President. We cannot say that we want to solve the problem of the ria do Burgo and then not present it in the budget headings in order to undertake the necessary works. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, at some point it will appear that we are talking about different budgets. For the fourth year in a row, they are again reduced in this budget section. For our parliamentary group, for UPyD, this is a virtually lost legislature in agriculture, food and the environment. This year it again falls substantially to around EUR 1.3 billion and represents an important cut in some elementary items which we consider to be fundamental for Spanish farmers. From our parliamentary group we still do not observe congruence with policies of improvement in the competitiveness of the positioning of the brand Spain, of the establishment and implementation of new systems of financing, of public policies, of policies of promotion of the activities of internationalization, retention of talent, competitive dimension of R+D+i, like the scant contribution of the State to the investment in technological innovation in agriculture, or to the innovation in general, that would imply an improvement of the quality of our products and, therefore, favor the exports, thus leading to an increase of the wealth and helping to the creation of employment. Aid for the training of professionals in the agri-food sector is almost non-existent and more in view of the need for changes in land use. The needs to adapt to the common agricultural policy with its successive reforms have conditioned the type of crops in Spain. Agriculture has become more extensive, but it must also be more environmentally friendly. Professional training is key for agriculture to be a dynamically progressing sector that can compete with high-quality products in European and global markets. This deficiency is linked to a decrease in the heading for the development of the rural environment, a decrease in the budget of an item which we consider essential for the improvement of our rural sector, which is already quite punished by the budgetary abandonment of recent years. Water management items are insufficient; new infrastructure and goods are needed for general use. Spain suffers from periodic droughts affecting both the environment and the agricultural sector, and even in some areas of the territory they can directly affect human consumption. For this reason, our group has requested the return of this section. On the other hand, we have tabled a number of amendments, but before we can be told at one point that we intend to increase the budget or that all the amendments that we have tabled are withdrawn, I will say that all of them always go with a counterpart: we say where we would get the money and where we would go, and those presented in this section are intended to improve the quality and health of our agricultural products, to improve the protection of the rural environment and to increase the quality and competitiveness of the production of agricultural markets. As long as this is not done, we come back to the original idea that it really is a largely lost legislature in agriculture, livestock and the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. Mr Pérez Moya has the floor for the Plural Left Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u141	Thank you, President. Our group has tabled a whole amendment to Section 23, Agriculture, Food and Environment, and seventy partial amendments. As regards agriculture, livestock, fisheries and food, and therefore our rural environment, these budgets involve institutionalizing the dismantling of policies that are vital for their support and defence and certifying their renunciation of the design of their own agricultural policy. In fact, 70% of the Ministry's consolidated budget corresponds to transfers from the EAGF and the ERDF, from the European Union, and almost 89% of what is invested in the agricultural chapter. It is important in this regard to highlight the reduction of EUR 1,034 million in this area and the abolition of the existing sustainable rural development programme due to a clear lack of implementation of Law 4/2007. The management of the CAP, of the common agricultural policy, is a clear example of how the final drafting of its implementing regulations has prevented aid from being shielded from productive and professional activity, and it is not in vain to take into account the clear example that of the 900,000 CAP recipients, only about 350,000 are actually engaged in agricultural activity and live in agriculture. Since the entry of the Government in 2011, the Government of the People's Party has cut the budget for the agricultural chapter by more than 29,5 %, accumulating a cut of 59 % since 2009. From the 2012 budgets to the present - and in an illustrative way - the People's Party has cut by 14.34 % in risk-predicting policy; 41.23% in competitiveness and quality of production and markets; reduced by more than 25 % in budgets aimed at improving the quality of agricultural health; almost 7 % less in market regulation policies; a 32% less in rural development policies, completely dismantling the sustainable rural development programme; or losses that have punished all programmes affecting the agricultural sector. The agri-food sector is vital from a strategic point of view to ensure food security and control for the population, which is increasingly threatened by the political and economic volatility of the markets. Therefore, the State policies that defend the whole of our food structure from the producer to the consumer, as opposed to those aimed at deregulation, are precise, policies that cannot be implemented by reducing the budget lines that support them. To the tremendous volatility of the markets in the immediate horizon we have to add serious problems such as the growing speculation in the value chain, the position of domination and abuse of large operators in the shaping of prices, the particular crises affecting our productive sectors, in which other threats are also being posed to our primary sector and our rural environment, such as the consequences of TTIP, a possible deregulation of transgenics, the ageing of the sector or the depopulation of much of our territory. This is evident in the lack of political and economic impetus for measures such as the development of the Food Chain Act and the Food Information and Control Agency itself. That is why the regulation of the agri-food chain needs to be improved and strengthened by seeking a balance between all its links. That reference I made to the Food Information and Control Agency serves to raise the conflict over the price of milk. Producers cannot sell below the cost of production. There is a need for regulation, hence the role that the Food Information and Control Agency can play: minimum prices at source. In short, a fair price, which is the great debate on the subject. As far as the environment is concerned, it follows the path of abandonment initiated by the present Government. The allocation for climate change declines by 8.3% and remains less than half of what it spent in 2011. The abandonment of the momentum of renewable energy and energy efficiency is detrimental to the decarbonisation of the economy. The European Environment Agency itself has warned that Spain is not even on the road to meeting the emission limits of climate change. The heading for the protection and improvement of the environment falls by 25% compared to the previous year, despite our suspension in air pollution and the fact that all reports agree that it generates a serious environmental health and economic problem. They also decrease important items such as that for the maintenance, conservation and protection of environmental heritage by 66 % compared to the previous year, from 2,731 million in 2015 to 927,000 euros in the 2016 proposal; or that for the improvement of the state of water bodies, water quality and associated ecosystems, which decreases by 21 %. The allocation for rural development has decreased by 56 per cent and for sustainable rural development has disappeared. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, from our parliamentary group I would like to say that the arguments I have put forward quickly justify the amendment to all and all of the partial amendments, the seventy which I have said, aimed at both agriculture and food and the environment. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. For the Convergence I d'Unió Group, Mrs Tarruella has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the defense that the Minister has made of these budgets, she has given me the impression that we were in two different places, because agriculture, livestock, fisheries and the rural world in general have been the great forgotten throughout this legislature. The completion of this process is precisely in the budget allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment for this financial year 2016, which drops by 11.3%. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Democratic Union we want to highlight some of the amendments that we have tabled to try to alleviate the budget drop for this ministry a little bit. We want to highlight an amendment that substantially improves sustainable forest management in our forests. This amendment is repetitive; we have already insisted on the concept in the processing of previous laws. Demand is very important for the forestry and agricultural sector; it would lead to improvements in the productive economy, create green jobs, fix the population in rural areas and reduce the likelihood of forest fires, with corresponding savings in material and personal damage. We insist on this once again: establishing 30 % tax benefits on investments which, in compliance with sustainable forest management standards, are carried out on forest farms with forest management or planning instruments approved by the competent administrations. We also continue with amendments that want to highlight and correct the investment deficits in the State's General Budgets towards Catalonia. Of course, there are investments in coastal conservation and sustainability, important as an environmental value and a generator of productive economy, where there is a low and unfair investment, in particular in beach conservation, conservation and improvement of the round roads and in some sea walks. There is another block of amendments that seeks to restore to sustainable levels the unjust allocation of rural development plans for the period 2014-2020. These are necessary contributions to develop concrete plans to help boost the agricultural, livestock and fishing sectors. We also call for increased contributions to the annual farm insurance plans, trying to improve farmers' involvement in their loyalty. We have already heard the Minister explain that the allocation for agricultural insurance has been increased, but we still believe that it is completely inadequate, which makes it impossible for many farmers to secure their farms in the face of the high cost of insurance. We also want to draw attention to the nullity of the contribution that the State is making in recent years in the Parc Natural d'Aigüestortes i in the Lac de Sant Maurici, where there is a clear deficit of state investments in recent years. It is not just this budget, but we have been dragging it from previous ones. There is a totally unfair distribution of the resources that the State devotes to this network of parks. As far as environmental policies are concerned, the amendments reflect the demand for territorialisation, once again, of economic resources from emissions auctions and allocations for programmes for the prevention, reduction and adaptation to the environmental effects of greenhouse gases, mainly in terms of programming affecting local and regional administrations, which are responsible for diffuse sectors. Finally, we need to improve territorialized investments, and in this regard we highlight the amendments relating to the conservation and preservation of the environmental parameters of those spaces protected by their great environmental value. Finally, we would like to highlight the amendments aimed at the Terres de l'Ebre, namely the demand for more investment to be able to prevent and eliminate the effects of invasive pests affecting agricultural production, and thus the generation of wealth in these areas and the environmental quality of these. They are also closely related to the second revision of the River Ebre River Basin Hydrological Plan and specifically to the ecological flow necessary to preserve its standards and maintain its biodiversity as an environmental value, and at the same time generating the necessary economic resources for this territory. We would like at least one of these amendments to be accepted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tarruella. Mr. Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one more year the budgets you propose are a bad business for the agricultural sector. With a decrease of 13% in their matches, the Mapma becomes one of the ministries that applies the most cuts. The PP government cuts into a number of items that should be used to maintain the dynamism of one of the sectors that here and in Europe are more dependent on institutional aid in order to maintain that strategic character that is so much talked about and in which so little is invested. Thus we see how it is confirmed, for the fifth consecutive year, that his Government remains in conflict, which is particularly serious in this case. As far as agriculture is concerned, he preaches what is right for him, but he does what he is interested in. Since the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, we have tabled our amendments in favour. We defend them with the conviction that they are essential to support the entire agri-food sector, and being eaten we amount to 178 million euros. Of these EUR 178 million, 88 should be allocated to rural development programmes, which have been shown to be positive tools, and the supplement indicated is essential to achieve the objectives set. We propose 10 million euros to recover the allocation for the management of the purines, after the government left this sector in the energy reform: again the lack of legal certainty prevailing in the Spanish State. We propose that another EUR 20 million should be allocated to increase the amount of agricultural insurance, which is a very important point. Ladies and gentlemen, our amendments are possible and are proposed from the point of view of responsibility. How can you propose to more sinestrality less contribution? We insist, it is absolutely necessary to increase the proposed budget line by EUR 20 million to reach EUR 246 million, because the experience in terms of real disaster demands it. The remaining amendments are aimed to a lesser extent at staffing, research and other sectoral programmes. On fisheries, I would like to remind you of the moral obligation you, together with the autonomous fishing communities, have to compensate fishermen for the periods of voluntary restraint, as well as the desirability of overcoming once and for all the discriminatory treatment of fishing for daily tidal trawling in the Mediterranean, which today is being discriminated against for the benefit of the large Spanish and European fishermen. And finally, Mr President, when the legislature is in its final phase, I would like to state that although one of the main reasons Mr Cañete presented to justify the changes in the Coast Law was to ensure respect for the private property affected by that law, after three years of its approval, Minister, in the residential marines of Santa Margarida, Roses, and Empuriabrava, Castelló d'Empúries, they have not even begun the procedure for its execution, so, Minister, thousands of owners, the majority of European foreign Community citizens, continue to be victims of the legal uncertainty prevailing in the Spanish State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Pàramo. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rumí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am speaking on behalf of my group to defend the fisheries amendments to this budget. I have little time, but enough time to highlight how little they care about fishing for the People's Group and the People's Government. As has been customary in this legislature, the Government has neither wanted nor admitted collaboration to improve the draft budget law on fisheries either, and the budget for financing fisheries policy remains unambitious. The Minister has said this and will say that the Group of the European People's Party has grown, but has grown at a minimum, a growth that does not compensate for the decline in this budget or the decline in the fishing sector since it ruled the People's Party. The two fisheries programmes, which are around 70 million, have nothing to do with the nearly 122 million of the last socialist budget. It therefore increases minimally, but with respect to the current year. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the budget that the fisheries sector, the adjacent industry and coastal communities need. In order to meet these needs, it would have been necessary at least to comply with the amendments on financing for fleet temporary stops, to draw up a management plan for the surface longline fleet in the Mediterranean - because without a management plan there is no aid and without aid this fleet, which is forced to stop four months a year, does not have them - or to increase the allocation for fisheries research, which is essential for scientific knowledge of the fisheries sector, on the basis of which quotas are made, and in particular the consideration as a scientific observatory from bluefin tuna to mackerel, or those amendments whose objectives are to promote aquaculture, encourage women in the fishing sector and support for the canning industry. The fisheries sector and coastal communities needed greater budgetary effort to ensure their survival and adaptation to more sustainable models. It has lacked ambition and a more committed Government to the sector. Minister, last year I was telling you it was your first and last budget. I was wrong. Today we are here again with a budget that is a democratic fraud, with a budget that will manage another government, with a budget that, like all those made by the People's Party government, does not respond to the needs of Spain and not to those of the fisheries sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rumí. Mr. Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. A few minutes to set the position of the Socialist Group and to defend our amendment in its entirety and the innumerable partial amendments that we have tabled. Madam Minister and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, these budgets do not stand up for them, and that is what the minister has done, not defend them. To say that these budgets are almost the same as last year's ones and to read to us the budget figures, which grow slightly, obviating all the decreases, I think it is a childish exercise that says very little about the prestige of this government. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in a year when agriculture and livestock are going through a time of extreme difficulty, you bring us budgets with a reduction of 11.5%, and agricultural policy cuts of 13.3%. I don't know how you can defend this. When the State's general budgets rise by 2.6%, when the government strives to defend every day electoral political gestures in certain sectors, they bring farmers and farmers a further dose of cutback, the fifth in the government's time. Agriculture has lost weight with these budgets. At the moment it represents 2.1% when it was 2.7% in the last budget approved by the Socialist Government. Last year, Minister - I would ask you to take care of me - when you presented with a certain more friendly image than this year's growing budgets, you said: this increase - last year's - has been possible thanks to the coherence in the economic policy of this government and its structural reforms. I say to her, what now, minister? If, when the budget grows, it is thanks to the good work done by the People's Party Government, when it drops by 13.5 % in agricultural policy, who are you going to blame? These are clearly insufficient budgets, Minister. Everyone who has analyzed them says so, even the People's Party. I do not know if any of the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party have been passed on to him in that electoral strategy of making some gestures. It says the explanatory statement of an amendment of the People's Party: The 2016 budget - People's Party - of the Directorate-General for Water is clearly insufficient to meet the current commitments in implementation actions and first order actions that must be launched. The People's Party says: If not corrected - here are the amendments, yours and ours - this situation will have basic supply and irrigation services that cannot be adequately addressed. This is the reality, Minister. In addition to recognizing that they are absolutely insufficient, they are budget cuts, more cuts in agriculture, environment and rural development, and it is time to take a small look at their management in these years. With you agrarian policy has simply and plainly disappeared. You boast of having recovered the word agriculture in the name of the ministry, but you have left the ministry made an erial. I'm going to give you some data that you should be concerned about, Minister. The prices at source of the main agricultural products in Spain are in free fall, and you smile as you see the main costs of production rise, mainly energy, and the prices at source drop at risk of ruin for many farmers. Here's the subject of the dairy sector. Agrarian income fell by 7.2% in 2014 and threatens a further fall in 2015. Employment in agriculture has fallen. There are fewer agricultural assets in agriculture this year and there are fewer than when you came to the government. There are fewer professionals in agriculture, and only 280,000, according to the latest EPA. The income differential between the agricultural sector and the rest of the sectors is increasing. And the rural environment, Minister, continues to lose population, is depopulation. It is true that there will be some positive figures, surely the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group will give us some, but there are important risk indicators in agricultural policy. And what do you propose? 13% less budget. There are major problems, 13% less budget. Madam Minister, in addition to reading the figures - there are increases, we have seen them, we have read them - you should tell farmers and livestock farmers that they have suffered enormous damage from the drought, from the floods, from the floods, from the rock, in Granada, in Toledo, in Aragon, what will you do with the next year's budget to meet that loss of income that you have had. I'd have to say what he's going to do in the countryside. They have entered zero euros into the Sustainable Development for Rural Environment Act. I would have to say what he's going to do to tackle the main problems that livestock have, health problems. In short, they are budgets that should call for the concern of the Government and make a more rigorous analysis.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u150	Mr. Alonso, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u151	One minute, I ask you, please, Mr President, to make an assessment of the environmental budget, which is also a reduction from the previous year, EUR 110 million less in environmental policies, which show the government's contempt for these policies. Degradation, privatization, mercantilization and less budget is what you have done. All programs suffer cuts. In water infrastructure management, in water quality, in environmental protection and improvement, in coastal policies, also in the prevention of climate change. We believe that these are clearly improved budgets. We have tabled a whole amendment and many partial amendments, and the Members of the People's Party would do well, in addition to approving their electoral amendments - some have to say that they are electoral and that they have to be voted on - to amend these budgets, which are frankly worrying for the environment and the rural environment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Alonso. Position fixing. Mr Pérez Lapazarán has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. The first thing I wanted to say is that we find it pathetic to hear the representatives of the Socialist Party talking about cuts in these agricultural budgets; a party that when it ruled made the biggest cut that can be made to agricultural policy, such as the elimination of the Ministry of Agriculture and the word agriculture. That is simply the biggest cut that can be made to an agrarian policy, and that is what you did; with you you did not just lose weight, but ignored the agrarian sector. And to talk about the dairy sector when they never raised an extension of quotas, a system that was so beneficial to Spain, is simply to criticize and talk for talking. Criticising fisheries policy as it has done, when the Socialist Party and its Government lost all credibility in Europe because they failed to fulfil their obligations in this area, is more than the same. As far as environmental policy is concerned, it has been resolved by making some great disappointments, and as the song says: there they are, watching time pass. They criticize issues that they are unable to resolve when they govern, which, in our view, is a very curious way of doing politics and criticizing the Government. Returning to the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment, I would like to say that it represents the significant amount of 9,765 million, almost 10 billion. Of that amount, three quarters - 7,438 million - are for agriculture, livestock, food and fisheries. The first assessment we want to make - and what is really positive about this amount - is that most of this figure corresponds to the contribution of funds made by the European Union through the EAFRD and the EAFRD, exactly 88.9% of the budget for these four policies. That is to say, the European Union will transfer 6,618 million euros to us. In our view this is very remarkable; it is important for the efforts, presence and success of this government in the negotiations in Europe. I would like to reiterate that this government negotiated and managed not only a huge amount of Community funds for Spain, but also achieved a very positive CAP for our agricultural sector and also for fisheries. These two issues, both funds and CAP, will create jobs, maintain and increase income and contribute to our country's economic growth. The second positive assessment concerns the allocation of budget items to the priority policies of the ministry. As the minister has said, it has a greater impact on society, on the economy, on income and on employment. In the face of these criticisms, these catastrophes and the cuts that the Socialist Party and some other opposition members put forward, I would like to say that there are significant increases in items such as, for example, the fight against fires and forest restoration with an increase of 33.6 million; rural development with an increase of 11 million; water resources for irrigation with an increase of 9 million; food aid for the disadvantaged with an increase of 4 million; agricultural insurance - the Minister has already said - with 6 % growth and we have already reached 212 million euros. This is all important. In competitiveness and quality of agricultural markets growth of 25,7; in agri-food industry growth of 28 %, with new items for the monitoring and information of markets of products as important as wine, oil and milk; in food promotion increase of 46,6 %. Since there has been talk of the dairy sector, I would like to raise some important issues. I believe that the dairy sector has been important to the government since the first day of government; since the beginning of the legislature, efforts have been made to prepare this scenario for the end of the quota system. At the moment there is no Member State that has put in place more measures to support the dairy sector. I do not think it will close any farm because the government will support dairy farms that are selling below production costs with up to EUR 10,000 per farm. Today we have had important news: the Commission has approved EUR 25 million. Unbelievable! The Minister of Agriculture has achieved €25 million for the dairy sector, twice as much as in 2009, the worst crisis in this sector. [[Applauds]] In addition, the dairy sector will have €35 million more of the CAP this year than last year. This will exceed the additional 75 million that the Government will mobilize for dairy farms. The Government is supporting each and every dairy holding in the country. The important measures promoted by this Government are combined with those negotiated with the Commission, such as these 25 million, and the very important agreement reached by industry, distribution and the producer sector to try to obtain better prices - and today one of the major distribution chains was already rising in two cents the price of milk -. I believe that these are important measures and demonstrate the Government's commitment to the dairy sector. I would like to tell the Socialist Party that in eight years they did not raise such an extension of quotas and even defended a flat rate which would have meant a 50% reduction in aid to the livestock sector. There are other issues that this budget says of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment. In the area of the environment, I would like to highlight investments in water policy in order to achieve the objectives set out in the various river basin plans, particularly in the area of sanitation and purification, as well as the important commitment of these budgets to continue efforts to combat climate change. There is a significant increase in the climate change adaptation heading, which is growing nothing more and nothing less than 49%, and Spain will be one of the first countries or the first country in Europe to carry out this adaptation. One very positive issue is that it will be the first budget year in which large sums of money will not have to be devoted to the payment of the debt of the Directorate-General for Waters that the previous Government left. With regard to fisheries, the budget is also increased by 2.27%, which will enable the Government to meet its objectives in the two main areas of action, namely the improvement of fisheries structures and markets and the protection of fisheries resources and sustainable development. It will allow us to increase the fishing opportunities of our fleet and to make full use of the Community funds that the sector will receive. I want to tell the Socialist Party spokesman not to tell us that there was a high fishing budget in 2011. They cut it twice and by the end of 2011 the fishing budget was reduced by 20 %, i.e. they do not come with fishing tales. [[Applauds]] Finally, this budget responds to the needs of sectors as strategic as food, fisheries, livestock and the environment, which continue to be priorities for the People's Party, as we have shown throughout the parliamentary term. Do not talk about democratic fraud, because democratic fraud is what you did from the Socialist Party, from the previous government, eliminating the word agriculture and not doing politics in Spain or Europe. I conclude by thanking you, Minister, to your team, to the ministry, to those 10,000 officials who have worked in such an important way to improve everything that is agricultural, fisheries and food policy, which was practically missing in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Lapazarán. Before we move on to the next point, I'm going to give you some announcements. The key point is that I want today's vote to be not before eight, but as close as possible to eight. Now we will see the Economics section; then, according to what we have spoken to the groups and if possible - I hope so - we will see sections 31, 32, 33 and 35, which form a whole, and then it would be the vote, I insist, never before eight. Tomorrow we would start with section 18, Education, Culture and Sport, we would continue with section 16, Interior, then with section 26, Health, Social Services and Equality. In the end the votes would take place and then we would enter the following points, on which I must tell you that paragraphs 3 and 4, the proposal for a law and its direct and read-only procedure, would be seen together, as we remain on the Board of Spokesmen, and point V, debate of all legislative initiatives, disappears, having withdrawn the amendment in its entirety. At the end of the day, we shall proceed to the vote. I hope and trust that tomorrow, even if it is rather late-night, we will conclude the plenary session, but I do not rule out - so that everyone knows - that we will have to continue it on Thursday. I think it's unlikely, but not impossible, so we should all take it into account. We shall now proceed to the debate on Section 27, Economy and Competitiveness. For his defence and presentation, the Minister of Economy and Competitiveness has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u155	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to appear in this House to defend Section 27 of the General State Budgets for 2016. We are faced with budgets that reflect the full consolidation of the recovery of the Spanish economy. Just over three years ago, in May 2012, he was defending in this very House the first budgets of this legislature. As you will recall, our economy was then on the verge of collapse due to the loss of confidence and the deep recession in which it was plunged. This has been confirmed today by the revision of the national accounts published by the INE to which I will refer later. On the contrary, the situation today is completely different. The budgets you have are those of a country that leads growth within the main economies of the euro area and also the advanced ones. This is acknowledged by all the forecasts of international bodies such as the International Monetary Fund, the OECD and the European Commission. Public accounts for 2016 aim to continue and strengthen recovery. Therefore, they preserve the same principles that have made possible the important turn of the Spanish economy, are prudent and show the Government's firm commitment to the goal of the public deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, in my presentation I shall first address the current situation in our economy, Section 27, Economy and Competitiveness, starting with a reference to the international context. Secondly, I will briefly refer to the macroeconomic framework on which the budgets are based and then give concrete expression to the main items of my department focusing on trade and R & D+i, both fundamental pillars for sustained growth. As far as the international context is concerned, as you know, the main agencies predict moderate growth in the world economy for this year and next. To this is added the increase in the downward risks observed in recent months by a number of factors: firstly, the slowdown in China and the volatility of the markets observed this summer; secondly, the worse behaviour of emerging economies in the face of the fall in the price of raw materials; thirdly, the concern in these economies about the impact of a possible rise in interest rates in the United States and, finally, the deep slowdown in international trade. As far as the euro area is concerned, the recovery driven by the tailwinds we already know is expected to continue: the fall in oil prices, the depreciation of the euro and the measures launched by the European Central Bank. However, the pace at which progress is being made, the improvement in Europe, remains weak and is therefore a matter of concern. This context contrasts with the strength of the growth of the Spanish economy, mainly thanks to the important progress made in correcting the imbalances that have enabled the ambitious reforms undertaken. This has been clearly reflected in the latest data published by the INE for the second quarter of the year. The Spanish economy grew by 1% in the quarter, a rate that had not been recorded since before the crisis and which almost tripled the euro area average. This dynamism is also recorded in the labour market. As I explained in my appearance last July, the second-quarter EPA shows an increase in the number of people employed by 412,000. This is the largest quarterly increase in the last ten years. In addition, the advanced indicators known to date indicate that this improvement continues in the third quarter; those of confidence and economic sentiment continue to peak and the August MIPs reflect that the strength of the activity is maintained. The evolution of credit flows to the private sector is also revealing, as the latest available data showed. The credit to households and SMEs chain about twenty months in positive, confirming the change in the situation of our banking sector. In short, ladies and gentlemen, all the data available so far indicate that the good performance of the economy will continue in this third quarter, with annual growth of about 3.5%. I now turn to the macroeconomic scenario that accompanies the General Budgets of the State. Allow me not to over-stop as I had the opportunity to present it to you in my appearance last July. As you know, this is a realistic macroeconomic picture, based on prudent assumptions and which shows the recovery of the Spanish economy. We estimate GDP growth at 3.3% this year and 3% by 2016, in line with the consensus of analysts and projections of major international agencies. This activity is also based on a balanced pattern thanks to the strength of external demand and the improvement of the external sector. For its part, the labour market will continue to be strengthened by the creation of more than 600,000 jobs in EPA terms, as I have already mentioned to you on other occasions. This will result in the number of people employed at the end of this year being above the levels we are at the beginning of the parliamentary term. For its part, the unemployment rate, which is already below the fourth quarter of 2011, will continue its reduction and we expect it to reach 19.7% in 2016. This favourable development of growth and employment would not have been possible without the important correction of the imbalances achieved over the years. The correction of the external imbalance, the significant progress in the deleveraging of the private sector, the consolidation of the banking sector and the reduction of the public deficit have been key elements. Budgets for 2016 will continue this process of improving our economic foundations. Thus, the public deficit will fall below 3% of GDP next year and a primary surplus will be recorded for the first time since the start of the crisis. In addition, the public debt/GDP ratio will begin its downward path, decreasing for the first time since 2007. Improving our public accounts has been essential to restore confidence in the economy. This is clearly seen in the evolution of our financing costs. Thus, the average cost of issuing the Spanish Treasury marked last August as a historical minimum, 0.87%, which contrasts with almost 4% we paid in 2011. In addition, this has been compatible with an extension of the mid-life of the portfolio, another sign of improving the perception of the future of our economy. The share of public debt in the hands of non-residents is also 45% compared to 34% in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now go over the main budget items to be implemented by the Ministry of Economy next year. I will begin by referring to the Secretary of State for Trade. Let me remind you of the important role that the foreign sector has played, is having and will have in the continuation of the recovery of the Spanish economy. Thus, 2015 will be the third consecutive year of current account surplus, which will also be around 2% of GDP, a figure that has not been given in our modern economic history. The macroeconomic picture predicts that current surpluses will continue for another three years, until 2018. We also expect seven years of financing capacity for the rest of the world, bearing in mind that this 2015 will be the fourth year in which we achieve it. This will allow us to continue to reduce our external debt and, therefore, to continue to correct our main imbalances. Within the good performance of the external sector, the dynamism of exports, which in the first half of the year grew to 5% every year, stands out. During this period, sales abroad exceeded 125 billion euros. This is the highest amount in a semester of our entire historical series and significantly higher than the European average. Thus, the budgets of the Secretary of State for Trade for 2016 are increased by 1.5% compared to this year, to almost 500 million euros. We have made special efforts to increase the allocations for internationalization, which for the third consecutive year are increasing. With regard to ICEX, it highlights the increase in transfers of EUR 1.2 million. In addition, within the process of rationalization and efficiency that has been carried out within the Administration, this entity has completed the process of integration of different agencies that we begin at the beginning of the legislature. I now turn briefly to domestic trade items, a sector of particular importance to the Spanish economy, which accounts for almost 12% of GDP. I would like to highlight the good development of retail trade, whose sales have increased by more than 4% in real terms in July compared to the same month of the previous year. Undoubtedly, behind this dynamism lies the recovery of domestic demand and the increase of consumer confidence. This is why these budgets maintain trade support and endowment through the Plan of Support for the Competitiveness of Retail Trade. But as important as budgetary efforts have been the legislative measures implemented in the area of retail trade in recent years. Among many others I would like to highlight the limit to interbank exchange rates in card payments, since Spain was the first country to incorporate it into its legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I will finally refer to the budgets of the State Secretariat for R & D & i for 2016. Firstly, I would like to point out that the grant chapter has increased by EUR 227 million, which is 15% more than in the previous year, and is the third consecutive year of increases. Also for the third consecutive year, transfers to public research bodies, IPOs, increased by 20 million compared to the previous year, a situation that contrasts sharply with the decline of more than 200 million experienced in 2010. I would particularly like to highlight the situation of the Higher Council for Scientific Research, the third research body in Europe. Thanks to the extraordinary actions committed in 2013 today has recovered its normality and overcome its financial difficulties, increasing by more than 8.5 million euros in 2016 its budgets compared to the previous year. But, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a party in which the Government has demonstrated its commitment to science and technology, it has been with the research staff. We find ourselves with a replenishment rate that has been decreasing, in 2009 it was 30%, in 2010 it was 15% and in 2011 it was 10%. This Government, in a very complex economic situation, has managed to implement a replacement rate of 100 per cent already in this year and will also be 100 per cent next year. We will also have another 25 contracts for those researchers who are pursuing a non-functional career, bringing together 75 contracts of this type. It is a model based on merit, very widespread in Europe. I would also like to remind you that we have recovered the social security bonuses. We have turned predoctoral scholarships into contracts and created industrial doctorates to bring research closer to companies, one of our main challenges. As far as our quotas in international agencies are concerned, the Government remains committed to a model of large-scale facilities in the face of the dispersion of efforts. In 2016 we will reduce the debt to zero with the CERN, the particle accelerator located in Geneva, which carried a debt of 40 million euros since 2010. We have also committed to the European supercomputer initiative through the Barcelona Supercomputing Center to which we have allocated €7.5 million. Spain thus maintains its leading position in Europe in this area. With regard to CDTI, the main support for private research in our country, will have 30 million for direct aid in addition to credits. This will enable initiatives such as the new Neotec programme to finance new business projects in their early stages, or also a new seed capital initiative to boost venture capital interested in technology-based SMEs. If there is a game that has experienced a qualitative leap, it has been the national funds for research projects, one of the traditional demands of the scientific community. The National Fund for Scientific and Technical Research for the main calls for human resources and research projects increases by EUR 150 million, more than 43 %, and the Science, Technology and Enterprise Fund with which we provide calls for transfer and public and private cooperation is increased by EUR 20 million, 28 %. Ladies and gentlemen, before I conclude, I would like to refer to the establishment of the research agency whose statute will be approved by the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. It will involve the integration of all instruments for financing scientific research and will give more stability to calls. It will also improve resource allocation and reduce bureaucracy. Its budget will be made available through the reallocation of funds managed by the State Secretariat for R & D & I. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. The broad budget lines for the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness for the next financial year reflect the profound change in our economy. In fact, the revision of the national accounts published by the INE this morning has confirmed that the economic crisis occurred before what was thought and has been more serious, painful and intense than was estimated. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain did not experience any green outbursts and the recovery never took place. The economy did not grow to 0.7% in 2011, as we were told at the beginning of the legislature. Now we know it was down to 1%. This data further highlights the unmatched course change that we have given in just over two years. In 2012 we have a free-falling economy and a strong job destruction that generated huge doubts and mistrust and now we have the fastest growing economy in the euro area with strong job creation, moderate prices and external surpluses. In just three years we have been able to turn the longest and deepest crisis in our modern history, an unprecedented turn that has been possible thanks to the efforts made by Spanish society and the economic policy implemented. The data published today by the INE have shown that the loss of income from 2008 to mid-2013 was not 7 points, as originally estimated, but almost 9 times more than four times the GDP loss recorded by the euro area during the same period. All this does if it is more important to continue with the course taken. It is essential to maintain the pace of recovery at 3% rates in the coming years. If we do not, we will not be able to put the crisis behind us once and for all and the deep social gaps in the crisis will be open for a long time. We shouldn't be fooled. Reversing reforms and undoing the road ahead pose the main risks to the economy and all efforts made so far will have been in vain. On the contrary, if we persevere on the path undertaken, we will have a much better future before us. It is everyone's responsibility to work to achieve this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Errekondo has the floor in defence of amendments, first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u157	These budgets are but the first campaigning act of a People's Party and its austerid and ultra-liberal candidate, as is Mr Rajoy, the result of the arrogance of four years of absolutist majority of the People's Party. They are nothing but a dirty and fraudulent game by the government to impose what it cannot achieve democratically, given that the People's Party is aware that by its anti-social policies it has lost more than 40% of its support in 2011, and today it has lost its legitimate majority in this very Congress. Moreover, by entering into the content, these budgets are continuous and do not solve at all the structural problems of the Spanish State, such as the insurmountable millions of unemployed, increasing inequality, fiscal fraud, extreme poverty, social exclusion and the redistribution of wealth. On the contrary, they increase support for banking and the large speculative enterprise, but that does not surprise us at all, because it directly obeys the DNA of the People's Party itself and its ultra-liberal and re-centralizing approach. These budgets are clearly antisocial and we will see some of the bloodiest aspects, such as employment or dependency, for not having more time. Over the past four years unemployment coverage has fallen from 70% to 50% and the average perceived for each unemployed person has been 30% lower, i.e. among the unemployed, people who are receiving unemployment are becoming less and less and the amount they are receiving is becoming less and less. The long-term unemployed already exceed 3,200,000 and more than 3,700,000 people do not receive any kind of benefit. In this critical situation, the People's Party and the Government propose to reduce the corresponding allocation covering unemployment by €5.5 billion, 22%, knowing that this will lead to inequality, more poverty and greater feminicide of poverty. Well, we think of an exclaiming question: what kind of state is this so that justice does not act ex officio in the face of such harassment?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is social terrorism and it is time for the implementation of its own law, the law gags, against these measures. In addition, this government is pulling out and telling us that the headings for active employment policies are increasing by 10%. A gross lie, a lie because it hides the fact that this game is 2.5 million euros lower than in 2011, with a share of unemployed and unemployed less than the current one. It lies grossly because the departure, moreover, hides the strong increase to finance private placement agencies and because it continues to cover the subsidies and bonuses of those companies that employ 80% to finance temporary contracts. About dependency, what are we going to say! That we denounce the supine arrogance of this People's Party government that calls savings to a cut of 1.5 billion euros over three years on moderate dependence and that has also caused the waiting list to increase from 14 to 37%, reaching 445,000 people. Let us not forget that there are more than 100,000 dependent people on waiting lists who have died during these years without receiving any kind of service. Therefore, the EUR 75 million proposed in these budgets are ridiculous, because to meet the current waiting list would require more than EUR 3 billion to be directed to the autonomous communities. With regard to refugees, which is one of the most pressing problems at the moment, we have to tell the Government that it is time for it to understand that the citizenship of the Spanish State is and has been a migrant, that it has also suffered hunger and inhuman wars and that for hundreds of thousands it has been sheltered from solidarity countries. It is therefore time for the Spanish Government to stop treating this issue as a mercantilist issue of migrants and refugees. Accordingly, we refer the following four claims to the Spanish Government. First, the hot evictions must cease and the newly-released Citizens' Security Act must be annulled. Secondly, it must urgently change the current policy and establish a genuine solidarity policy of asylum and care for all immigrants. Thirdly, it must act to address the original problem and meet Oxfam Intermon's claim to allocate 40 million this year and the next 100 million for humanitarian aid. Fourthly, it must act to put an end to indiscriminate bombardments against the civilian population and to ensure the implementation of justice based on civil and political rights. The conclusion is therefore clear on these budgets. In the Spanish State, the welfare state is not possible and that is why we say: agur, adieu Estado Español. Today, any citizen can see that this government and this state rely on rats and rats, derelict bankers and large power companies. This far-right state does not care at all about energy poverty or the welfare state. To see it, it is enough to expand the vision a little for a few years where, while the parliaments of the Basque Autonomous Community, Navarra and Catalonia have passed laws for the defence of the welfare state of their citizens, the Fracking Act, the Consultation Act, the Statute of Catalonia, the Anti-Paging Act, the Anti-Effort Act, the Energy Poverty Act, the Law on Health and Care for Undocumented Citizens, etc., while this was happening, the Spanish State moves all its weapons against it. Thus, more than 20 laws have been suspended or annulled by the Constitutional Court. In other words, twelve judges, also appointed by the two main parties of this Congress, send more than three parliaments and 260 parliamentarians democratically elected by their citizens. The People's Party is aware that it is a residual party in the Basque Autonomous Community, Navarre and Catalonia and intends to achieve, through the imposition of its weapons, what it cannot achieve democratically, the weapons of Minister Morenes and the weapons of mass destruction of the Constitutional Court. In short, and I am finishing, Mr President, these budgets are an ultra-liberal and re-centralizing approach and they clash head-on with the political, economic and social reality of Euskal Herria, with the right to decide its own future and with the right to decide its economic and social model. As singer Lluís Llach claims, we need national sovereignty to then make social sovereignty.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u158	Thank you very much, Mr Errekondo. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of the debate - and it still remains - it is beginning to be a canteen in my speeches, because this is reflected in the budgets brought to us by the Government, the folly of seeing the growth of the economy on the one hand and, on the other, of finding systematically cuts that the Government has never finished explaining. In this case, the expenditure of the section that we are discussing in the 2016 budgets is 3.6%, i.e. -420 million euros, but in addition to the 11,260 million euros earmarked for economy and competitiveness 34% will be satisfied by the nonsense of government energy policy and the tariff deficit: 3,895 million euros. Of course, from there and with these general criteria, it is not surprising that the average cut in the R & D legislature has been 9 %, i.e. more than 25 % cut since the current PP government arrived. To give a concrete example - nothing more and nothing less than the energy sector, whose tariff deficit is assumed under this heading - I will tell you that research and development in energy and the environment is endowed with 89 million euros, which means a cut of 23% compared to 2009; a sector, precisely energy, in which Spain is tremendously dependent and where innovation and development in alternative energies should be the priorities not only of this one but of any government as long as we continue to have that energy dependence. That is why my group's amendments are in the process of strengthening some of the items that we consider to be key to this ministry or this section, for example the Internationalisation Fund of the company. Indeed, one of the clear strategic options that emerge from this crisis is the need to internationalize Spanish companies, but not only the large ones, many of which are already multinational companies, but the small and medium-sized ones, which constitute more than 94 % of the business fabric and which have enormous difficulties in internationalising if they are not, on the one hand, economically and technically supported by the State and if they are not, on the other hand, opened up the possibilities of access to these markets through ICEX and other bodies. That is where you can do a huge job that obviously does not appear reflected in these budgets. There is another area in which we also propose amendments. The aim is to enhance the unity of the internal market. We believe that it is a paradox that we are forming part of the single European market and at the same time we continue to maintain internal barriers to market unity, barriers that sometimes pass through the territorial or autonomous division of the State, but others pass through the fact that the European Union's regulations and directives are not being moved to liberalise certain professional sectors. That is an area where structural reforms are still needed, which we do not see reflected in that budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Centella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u161	Mr. President. Minister, I have heard your triumphal election campaign speech and you come to present the economic situation as a way out of the crisis. If his speech were heard by the millions of people who are unemployed, who have precarious jobs, with wages that do not allow them to live, it would be offensive to them. Your speech here today is offensive to many people in this country. There is no right to say to citizens that it is true that unemployment is falling or that the Spanish economy allows us to look to the future with hope. It is true that you can be satisfied, it is true that things are going well for you, but not for the social majority of this country. It is not true that the social majority of this country can look to the future with hope and much less with the possibility of recovering what you have taken away from them with the excuse of the crisis. It is true that you are consolidating an exit from the crisis; an exit that is antisocial and therefore has to be accompanied by an authoritarian exit, because you know that people are not going to settle for having less pay for the same job and that is why you have to implement repressive measures so that you cannot protest what you are taking away from it. They are presenting budgets here today. They have done so in a totally abnormal way, but with a goal, a goal that sounds to them, because it is their historical heritage, that is to keep things tightly tied up, to leave a model of exit from the crisis tied up and tied up. You have advanced the budgets to try to make sure that the next government already has the duties done - its duties - but at this point history should have taught them that nothing is tied and well bound. That is why our group hopes that these budgets will be the shortest in the parliamentary history of this state and that the amendments to the whole that you have already defeated and those that you are going to defeat between today and tomorrow will have a second round in December. Then, in December, the social majority of this country will defeat you. Today you are defeating most people, but in December these budgets will be defeated by the electorate. Therefore, today we will defend amendments here in a witness way, being aware that their roll will defeat them, but we will not defend them as a mere process, but as a true declaration of intentions, our declaration that things will change from December, that your government will be defeated and for the next year there will be other budgets, budgets that will go in a totally opposite direction to what you have come to explain this afternoon. You have forgotten to say some things that would have to be valued. It is true that there have been positive components, but you have not talked, for example, about tourism, which has improved not because of the work of the Government, but because the reality of international conflicts has made Spain able to have positive accounts. What has saved the Spanish economy has not been its management, but the fact that there have been external elements such as tourism, the price of oil or the interventions of the European Central Bank that have made you breathe into some elements of its policy. It has not been his policy that has yielded these results, quite the contrary; his economic policy has worsened the situation, and what could have been much more expansive has been limited to a government strategy that remains the one that we have denounced in all legislatures. Its policy is based on internal devaluation, that is, on depressing the capacity of the population. You have taken devaluation in the worst way, devaluing wages. Today it is a reality that people work the same as a few years ago and pay less; it is a reality that citizens have to accept jobs that they could not accept very recently, because today you cannot live, Minister, with what you earn from a salary, and that is a consequence of their policies. You have come to boast that domestic demand is growing, but it is simply a breath in relation to the little demand that had been very recently and not the result of a revival of the productive economy. You still think that economic policy is based on putting all energies in control of the deficit, but the reality is very different. As long as there are no structural changes, it is impossible for the Spanish economy to be productive and to have a future; it remains a speculative economy and at the service of external interests. In the time I have left, I will refer to something that can also be hurtful for those who dedicate their lives to research, development and innovation. You have come to pose that they are the budgets of recovery. Minister, you said that in 2014, but that is not the reality. The reality is that after the brutal cuts that took place in 2012 and 2013 we return not to normality but to the abnormality of maintaining what had already been cut. The reality of the budgets is that the scissors include international quotas and mainly human resources programmes, such as Ramon and Cajal, Juan de la Cierva or the ICC fellows, while others see their funding fall by 75 per cent. So, as for betting on R+D+i, nothing at all. These budgets, and also in the middle of the election year, continue to punish research, development and innovation, because they have never believed in them. You do not believe in the capacity of this country, but you continue to think that our economy is dependent. They have to place research, development and innovation as a fundamental axis of their budgets and not as an added axis to make them up. Our amendments in their entirety go in that direction, in the sense that they change radically, but our partial amendments - which know they belong to the scientific community - try to ensure that the conclusion of this legislature is no less money, massive reduction in the numbers of young researchers and technicians - who are disappearing from the system at the end of their contracts - desert laboratories, aged staff - while young people have to emigrate - and ridiculous replacement rates as much as you are trying to say otherwise this afternoon. They are budgets that do not mean a revulsive, but that consolidate their exit from the crisis; budgets that, as I said, will be defeated on December 20 in the polls. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió, Mr Macias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, incommunicado minister, our group is tabling an amendment to return to section 27 and I will try to tell you why. You are Minister of Economy and Competitiveness and this makes you assume that you are responsible for carrying out reforms to encourage growth and competitiveness, for example, to improve the levels of investment in research, technological development and innovation, all of which provide clear support to businesses. However, even though there is growth in the Spanish economy - which we will not deny - for us it is quite alien to the responsibility of the ministry itself and even more to the action of the Government. The growth of the Spanish economy is linked to three exogenous elements on which the Government and the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness have had little impact: the fall in the price of oil, which seems to be moving towards 20 euros, the depreciation of the euro against the dollar and the liquidity policy pursued by the European Central Bank. On the other hand, there are elements of the economy which are the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness and which do not reflect the existence of sustainable and sustainable economic growth. Minister, today I was reviewing official Spanish statistics in which the increase in the price of land in the last quarter was 4.7%. This is a very negative symptom, it's almost like getting back on track, because it seems that growth is again being entrusted to the speculative economy and to the creation of a new real estate bubble. What should be sought by the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness is competitiveness in order to avoid further wage reduction and increase the productivity of enterprises. In recent years the improvement of competitiveness has been caused by many factors, but not all of them positive, and now it is time to say that it is time to recover wages. Today we have tabled a non-legislative proposal calling for an increase in the minimum wage as a way of pointing out that the priorities for regaining competitiveness at the moment are already different. What are these priorities? We need a change of productive model, a productive model that firmly believes in industrialization - the Minister of Industry said it a while ago from this rostrum, although he says it but does not apply it - and to believe in the recovery of industry - and when one says it in the broadest sense of the word - we need to think of a new economic model that values research, development and above all innovation. You know, because our partner Inma Riera has repeated it many times, that innovation is key to the internationalization of our economy, to export, but also to productivity itself. At this point, its headings should reflect policies that give important support to R & D and above all to the latest i, innovation, the transfer of knowledge to companies, and that do so for all types of companies, because in this country we have many lines - then I will talk about them - that can be used by large companies, which already have their own departments, connections and contacts, but our SMEs, which are ultimately the ones that are creating jobs, are far removed from that State support for innovation and technology transfer. In addition, Minister, there is a special circumstance, and it is that there are competences in this area, especially in support of businesses, which belong to the autonomous communities. Therefore, all that means helping the Autonomous Communities and their research, development and innovation institutes is also helping small and medium-sized enterprises and productivity. In these budgets we do not know how to see, despite the fact that we have to recognise a certain increase in R & D & I items, which items will eventually reach those who create employment, those who want to increase their competitiveness. Our amendments, Mr Minister, are in the sense, first of all, of calling for the budget to be returned from this section, but above all, of sending a message: trust the communities, trust the universities, trust the R & D centres and, above all, of technology transfer, trust you in something other than what you can centralise. As we know that they are not going to pay any attention to us or pay attention to us, they are going to have our sonado portazo in the form of an amendment returning to the budgets of this section. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr Moscoso del Prado has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u165	Minister, you have made a very similar speech to that of all your government colleagues, comparing the 2011 photo with the current photo; a comparison that has been repeated in all the speeches, yours, that of the ministers and that of the People's Group. It's very dangerous to drive permanently looking through the rearview mirror, because 2011 was what it was, but it's obvious that there's a change of pace in the economy and we don't know very well what's on the other side of that curve that you yourself have recognized. The doubts we have are well known: the growth model and its sustainability, the exhaustion of the exogenous factors that drive it - exchange rate, interest rate, oil price - and political uncertainty. This morning my colleague Pedro Saura made a brilliant speech in which he reminded Minister Cristóbal Montoro of the gravity of the situation and the inability of the Government to manage the political and territorial complexity of our country. It is certainly this inability to manage territorial and political complexity that can raise the risk premium. I have little time, but we all know that the growth model is very vulnerable: exogenous factors are exhausted and there is absolutely no impetus from the government's own policies; the potential growth is very low - everyone recognizes it, we have talked about it many times - and the reform agenda is already exhausted. The second chance law has been frustrating. The European Commission constantly warns us of the problems of competition and if we grow as we grow it is because of the effect of labour reform, the rescue we had in 2012 and the internal devaluation that has depreciated wages and caused inequality to go away by paying the very hard adjustment those who were least guilty. More doubts. We believe that the external net contribution will not be maintained, you yourself have recognized it; despite the good commercial data, the external demand decreases growth; marginal property does not grow and credit, which is a way of seeing activity, demand and spending, neither does it grow, we are worse than in 2011 - it grows in net balance compared to last year, but we are not in the necessary volumes -. This is how we are, Minister, with budgets - my colleague Joan Rangel has also defended it - that are pro-cyclical, data that are not going to be met in 2015, a deficit that is going to be much greater than expected and very serious problems, for example, the sinking of social security revenues. If this year had been completed, for example, your estimates of contribution income, it would have been necessary to create 6 million jobs, because only those with whom one million jobs have been created, the Social Security Fund has grown by 1.3 instead of the 8 that you expected, while the Reserve Fund was being emptied. You have talked about innovation, growth model, but at the rate that R & D+i is growing, it would take 50 years to recover the R & D+i that existed in 2011. Fifty years. In addition, and despite the increase in aid for internationalisation, this year will be even lower than in 2011. We believe that it is a model of dubious growth, without government input and worrying, because once again the construction - other spokesmen said - the domestic demand and not the healthy growth of the economy makes us grow. And what about social policies, where we will have, with the same number of unemployed as in 2011, 19 billion active policies compared to 30,000 then. That is where, in that brutal cut in employment policies and subsidy policies - there has never been less coverage - where there is the little margin you have. Our amendments seek to increase the low growth capacity of these budgets, to change the growth model. Much more is needed, as we discussed in our debate on Greece in August, because the economic policy of our economy and the euro economy needs to be radically changed. In R & D+i you bring as a triumph the launch, at last, of the State Research Agency, after four years of non-compliance with the 2011 Law and also, as you have said, without budgetary allocation. Our amendments seek to increase, first, the allocations for R & D+i centres in the territory, those promoted by local authorities, autonomous communities and universities. We also intend to increase the allocations for R & D+i in the development of industrial technology. Of course, in chapters 4 and 7, we want to strengthen the National Fund for Scientific and Technical Research, as its measures will not stop the hemorrhage of human resources, let alone encourage that alternative of innovation which we believe is the only way to create quality employment, sustainable employment, and stop the emigration and permanent hemorrhage of young researchers of all ages abroad. In short, Minister, they come curved. This budget does not allow or guarantee that the Spanish economy will continue to grow. You yourself have acknowledged that although we are growing above the European average, the European paron at a time of international uncertainty will have an impact on the Spanish economy. The employment data from August show that job creation is touching the roof and we believe that with these budgets neither improves the growth capacity of the Spanish economy nor compensates for the infinite social costs and suffering of Spanish society in these four years. I think you have to stop looking at the rear-view mirror and make so many similes with the inheritance and look more at what's coming, because it comes with a complicated panorama, a panorama of doubts and a panorama of much uncertainty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Moscoso del Prado. Mr Martínez-Pujalte has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u167	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the floor and thank you very much for your words. I go up to this rostrum to talk about what it's all about today and not about anything else, even if it's in the papers. I would like to begin by saying that after this debate, ladies and gentlemen, I am left with a feeling; after the debate in this section - and I have already been in part in the Commission - I am left with the feeling that the People's Parliamentary Group - and I am addressing, I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, to my colleagues - we can be happy at least one thing; we can be happy at least one aspect, which is that when we govern we are lucky; when we govern, we are accompanied by luck in the way that Spain is better; when we govern, Spain grows, Spain creates employment. Fortunately, but luckily, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard here from previous speakers about the price of oil, the exchange rate, the liquidity lines of the European Central Bank or the international geopolitical situation and their impact on tourism and that this is the source of growth, but other countries also enjoy this international context and, however, Spain leads economic growth and job creation. [[Applauds]] It is true that there is a certain international context, but within that international context only the countries that do well the duties, only the countries that put the sails of the boat in the right direction are those that take advantage of that context to transform it into welfare, growth and employment, which is the priority objective of this Government. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is presented because the future is not written. Mr Moscoso said well that the future has uncertainties. Indeed, Mr Moscoso, the future has uncertainties, and because the future has uncertainties this country could not afford to be without budget for a few months; because that future has uncertainties it is good that there is a budget, it is good that there is a budget that continues to affect what has made it possible for Spain to grow at a rate of around 3%, that jobs are created around 500,000 jobs a year and that this also becomes the welfare of the Spaniards. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have known that the crisis in Spain was very severe, that between 2007 and 2012 - or 2013, as you might say - in Spain there was a decline in GDP of 9 points. This was a brutal decline, a very severe decline, and in addition in the second part of the crisis it was much deeper than in the rest of the European countries. It is also true that with budget policies that seek balance, that make structural reforms and that transmit trust to the citizens, Spain has grown. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am also referring to the Members of the People's Party - what would have happened if another policy had been made? It's hard to fight because it hasn't happened, it's a futurable. But, Mr. Moscoso, you said there was no need to compare. Of course we have to compare, we have to compare legislatures; we have to compare the 2007-2011 legislature with this one. With policies such as those we have made and which reflect these budgets, Spain is growing, creating jobs and improving the well-being of citizens. [[Applauds]] Of course we have to compare, ladies and gentlemen. Of course they're going to tell us until the elections we don't compare, but of course we have to compare. They will tell us not to compare because the comparison is quite bad for another parliamentary group. What must be done, ladies and gentlemen, is to continue on this path. You have referred to R+D+i, and I want to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is very important to quantify expenditure on R+D+i. I told you in the Commission, and I think it is important to say it here today. It is important because the quantification of expenditure is fine, but in Spain in 2007 there were 56,000 scientific documents made by Spanish researchers and now we are in more than 85,000. Something will have been done, and it will not be by the government or the People's Party, it will be by the efforts of the researchers, but to say that we have not gone to the best is a complete fallacy, as it is a complete fallacy to say that R & D+i has not improved when in Spain the number of patents, both in application for patents and in granted patents, is in increases much higher than those that occurred in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finishing because I am running out of time, which, if not, could continue. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u168	Mr. Martinez-Pujalte, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u169	I'm done with a fact, ladies and gentlemen. The average debt cost in Spain was around 4% and now we are at 1.46%. And you will say to me, "What a way to end the more jetty, between 4 and 1.46." For I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the average cost of debt is what indicates the credibility of a country's policies and the policies of that country with the People's Party have been extraordinary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u170	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez-Pujalte. We will discuss, since we have a little time, sections 31, Expenditures of various ministries; 32, Other financial relations with territorial entities; 33, Interterritorial Compensation Funds; and 35, Contingency Fund. In defence of amendments, Mr Quevedo has the floor first of all for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. In a somewhat surprising way, because I was planning to speak tomorrow, I say first of all that, in relation to sections 31, 32, 33 and 35, I will defend the amendments made by the various groups that make up the Joint Group because because of the structure of the debate, as is known, we cannot all intervene in all cases. [[The lady]] Secondly, I have to stress again what I have highlighted in my other speeches - this is the third intervention I have in this budget debate - on behalf of the Canarian nationalists and it is that we have made an amendment to the whole - my colleague Ana Oramas defended it - sufficiently expressive of the discomfort of the Canarian nationalists with this budget which, after the Commission's debates, we maintain in its entirety. We have made it clear that there are numerous arguments, which go beyond opinions, victimism or whims, which confirm that our land can objectively demonstrate a divergence with respect to the average wealth of the Spanish State accumulated by more than ten points in recent years; that this land has a furlough, which is its economic and fiscal regime, which has been persistently neglected despite being protected by constitutionally recognized laws and, consequently, this defence of our amendments does not in any way replace our reiteration that the General Budgets of the State are harmful to the Canarian Community, but are also harmful to the social majority in the Spanish State as a whole. And then they have one more feature, and it is that these budgets are not real, it is not possible to formulate budgets in one month of August, and not because it is a holiday month or that we like to be on vacation, but because it is simply impossible to gather certain data in all those areas that then feed the budget, especially in the income chapter. This is something that happens in the 2015 budgets, imagine yourself in the 2016 budgets. Therefore, we have denounced the times, the forms, the contents, and that the forecasts of this budget have more to do with the ideological positions that have been fuelling this government's actions without any logic. In these four sections, the Canary Islands-Nueva Canarias Coalition we have tabled eleven amendments. Of these eleven amendments, I would like to point out that not necessarily - as happened this afternoon when I spoke in Section 20 - are the ones that represent the most from the point of view of Sections 31, Expenditures of various ministries, 32, Other financial relations with territorial entities, 33, Interterritorial Compensation Funds and 35, Budget Contingency Fund, but those that best allow us to explain why we believe it is incomprehensible that some elementary demands are not met. That is why we have to remember again that the financing of regular island passenger transport is a strategic issue for this land. We remind them that we have neither AVE nor anything that looks like - birds yes, but birds without that we do not have - so that the regular transport of travellers is an absolutely decisive issue because of the few options that are given in an archipelagic territory. In this case, we propose that the Canary Islands-State Convention of EUR 5 million be complied with in line with our amendment to the additional fifty-fifth provision, which concerns public transport in Madrid, Barcelona and the Canary Islands. To the same extent, we call for priority public transport systems, the so-called BRTs, to be envisaged. Why? Because since we do not have AVE again, we have to look for formulas that optimize public transport, which actually supplant our inability to develop guided modes of public transport. This is a reasonable proposal, which is comparatively extremely cheap in relation to what is spent throughout the state - and it does not seem to us wrong, we have nothing against any community - and for which we have asked for EUR 10 million. With regard to a determining factor in our funding, there is one issue that we have repeatedly denounced: it is not reasonable for the European Union to recognize to a greater extent the outermost status of the Canary Islands than the Spanish State. It is not reasonable for the primary law of the European Union to recognize our singularities and not to recognize them by the Government of Spain. This is an issue that is constantly being expressed, and especially when it comes to talking about interterritorial compensation funds. We have raised EUR 12.7 million because this is exactly the application that should be carried out if the isolated outermost condition, separate from all the budgets and the autonomous financing itself, is really envisaged. Then there are some other issues, I haven't spoken this morning about La Gomera, La Palma and El Hierro. We have some proposals for the cabilds of these three islands on which we insist, for example, on the cabild of La Gomera, the unanimous agreement of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, 2010: turning the current hospital on the island, 800,000 euros, into a social health centre, is a strategic need for the people most in need and who are worse off. In La Palma there are some issues like a wind farm for the desalination of water in its first phase, 800,000 euros, which are absolutely necessary for this strategic issue, which is the desalination of water, of which I spoke long and stretched this morning. In the case of El Hierro, questions are raised such as the Marine Wildlife Recovery Centre in the extinction of La Restinga, a place that is a biosphere reserve, which is a marine integral reserve. The least we can do is to give it content for the modest amount in this case of EUR 2 million. We could raise more issues, I don't have time and I fear that they won't change things as much as we strive, but we have to pass on one thing to them: there is a huge discomfort in the Canary Islands because of the insensitivity of the Spanish Government to the problems that our land has raised. Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u172	Thank you, Mr. Quevedo. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch. [[Rumors]] If you want to have conversations, do it in a moderate tone.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group has not tabled amendments to sections 31 and 32, but we have tabled a group of amendments to section 33, which relates to inter-territorial compensation funds, and to section 35, Contingency Fund. I have already had the opportunity to point out in previous speeches the importance for our parliamentary group of funding for autonomous entities and territorial authorities, which is funding which aims to contribute to the equality of citizens and to promote national cohesion and not the devel opment of our country. It is precisely from this perspective that we first discuss the analysis of how interterritorial compensation funds have evolved and then the amendments to correct what, in our view, is a slow but continuing process of deterioration of one of the fundamental tools for financing cohesion and solidarity in the Spanish State. Let us look at what has happened since 2009, when this Government was not in existence. Since 2009, when the interterritorial compensation funds reached €1,354 million, both PSOE and PP governments have been waning to the ridiculous amount contained in the 2016 budgets, which is $432 million. In other words, one of the tools that has been set up and regulated in the budgets has been reduced by more than 60% as an element intended to promote development projects in the autonomous communities, which is done on a finalist basis and which is also based on the principle of solidarity whereby not all the autonomous communities are actually the recipients of the resources of these funds. That is why our amendments as a whole to Section 33 aim to increase by EUR 400 million, i.e. to almost double the amount allocated to inter-territorial compensation funds. Obviously, the Group of the European People's Party rejected this amendment in the Commission and is not going to prosper, but we do like to make clear the message that it will not be for our parliamentary group, so that some autonomous communities - such as the Valencian Community, which we will have to deal with tomorrow's proposal for better funding - lack adequate funding. The tools that we already have are simply not being used, and that has to do with the amendments that we have also tabled to Section 35, Contingency Fund, because of course the 400 million we are proposing to improve the Inter-Territorial Clearing Fund is referred to as low in relation to the Contingency Fund. The other day in the Commission, the opposition groups were accused of the fact that all we did was make proposals for spending without specifying where we had to draw the financial resources to meet those costs. Indeed, we are proposing an increase in expenditure under some items, as I have just pointed out, and we are withdrawing from the Contingency Fund, but at the same time we are also proposing items from which to deduct expenditure from the Contingency Fund. For example, we propose that what we estimate could be EUR 3.8 billion that we would save ourselves if the parliaments disappeared and municipalities were merged to finance that contingency fund. We also propose a substantial reduction in investments in infrastructure for the AVE simply because this is an option that is already sufficiently developed in this country with ongoing projects. As many laps as we give it, we are one of the countries that most kilometers of high-speed train has in the world, which does not correspond to our economic situation, and above all in most cases we have done it with an AVE that can only be used half-way, because it only serves to transport people and not goods. This nonsense of a transport approach in our country has come the time not to eliminate it, but to reduce it to other items. From there we draw the financial resources that feed the casualties that we propose in the Contingency Fund. In short, not all opposition parties propose spending, but at the same time propose cuts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u174	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Our group has tabled partial amendments to section 32, other financial relations with territorial entities, with the aim of helping and helping to strengthen in one case local corporations to co-finance collective urban transport services, given the strategic value of collective transport for the normal development of the daily activity of cities, generate sustainable mobility, reduce pollution and ultimately contribute to combating climate change. We are submitting an additional amendment of EUR 20 million to co-finance urban collective transport services, because municipalities need additional support, especially if we take into account that it is the only administration that is bound by the Budget Stability Act with a zero deficit. All its resources therefore have to focus on addressing the consequences of the crisis in terms of social assistance and protection, combating energy poverty, aid to dependency, etc. Also in the field of support and aid for collective transport, in this case in the Valencian Community, we present an amendment of 15 million euros, taking into account that it has made important investments in the T2 line of Metrovalencia, which connects the center of the city with the neighborhood of Nazareth. The Generalitat lacks the resources to complete the investments necessary for its start-up, and the State must help to complete the implementation of this important metropolitan transport infrastructure. Here the arguments for aid and support for urban collective public transport would be the same as I mentioned earlier. We also ask for a contribution from the Barcelona Metropolitan Transport Authority for the financing of regular passenger transport on account of the contract-programme which is signed with the State, in this case of 60 million, to balance the deficit of the system and avoid a high rate increase that would affect the whole of the citizenry. We therefore propose that the contribution of the State be equivalent to that made in previous years. Similarly, we propose allocations to finance investments in the northern part of Granada, fulfilling the political commitment of the Government of Spain to the local and Andalusian administrations for the implementation of an integral plan in one of the largest social marginalization exchanges in Andalusia. We also request an extraordinary contribution of EUR 22 million for the implementation of the Unit Act in Castile-La Mancha, bearing in mind that a recent court ruling has just overturned the order by which the Government of Cospedal produced a significant cut in the implementation of the Unit Act leaving thousands of potential beneficiaries and their families without the expected help to cover situations of extreme need. This ruling obliges thousands of files to be reviewed, with the consequent retroactive recognition of certain benefits, which would mean and would result in a further collapse of the system of dependency in the region. This extraordinary help will be important to replenish the rights of many dependents without creating new waiting lists. There is also an extraordinary contribution of 20 million to the University of Castile-La Mancha, which in recent years has suffered a significant fall in its public funding of close to 60%, which has affected not only the number of teachers, the continuity of research projects, etc., but has paralysed the construction of faculties such as that of medicine in the Royal City. There has also been a drop in the number of students due to the reform of the scholarship system, so an extraordinary contribution is needed to recover plans, teachers and students and for the University of Castilla-La Mancha to serve the economic, social and cultural development of the community. Finally, for the community of Catalonia, and in compliance with the investment regulations in its autonomy status, we request an additional €914 million. Compliance with the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia disappeared in the General Budgets of the State of 2012, in those of 2013 and also in those of 2014. From our point of view, this represents a very serious institutional disloyalty; therefore, we cannot fail to request a fairer allocation for Catalonia that equates the State's investment in infrastructure in Catalonia, excluding the Interterritorial Compensation Fund and the relative share of Catalonia's gross domestic product in relation to the State's gross domestic product. These would be some of the main amendments that our group has tabled in section 32. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u176	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Moya. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Macias. [[Rumors]] Please speak in a discreet tone.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our group is presenting two amendments to Section 32, which I will detail below. Firstly, an amendment - something that has been mentioned above - is being tabled in order to give the metropolitan transport authorities greater funding capacity. In 2010, the Barcelona Metropolitan Transport Authority received EUR 180 million from the State for its financing; in fact, some of them corresponded to the third additional provision, although it was a much higher amount than the 99 million that are recorded in these budgets. What is the result for the Barcelona Metropolitan Transport Authority, for the Madrid Transport Consortium or for the transport of the Canary Islands? What is the consequence of this withdrawal from the State in the financing of such a social service as public transport? For there is no other remedy but to increase the prices of citizens. Therefore, I want to denounce and at the same time announce the citizens from here... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u178	Wait a minute, Mr. Macias. Please, it is impossible to follow the speaker's words because you are increasing the tone. I beg you to remain silent and keep the talks out of the Chamber. Go on, Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. I told them that the consequence is that the citizen is seen, through the work and grace of this Government, obliged to pay more in the rates of metropolitan public transport. It is a direct decision: the state pays less, citizens have to pay more. It must be said quite clearly. Although municipalities and autonomous communities make the effort, the state pays less and citizens pay more. Therefore, what we want here is for the State to fulfil its obligations in all areas where there is public transport. We might understand that in years when there was a significant drop in income the State could have fewer resources. We can understand that. [[The Lord]] But, you see, it turns out that the state recovers resources, has more resources available and, instead of reversing them into something as social as public transport, it turns out that the state lowers taxes to those who surely never use public transport, in a boast of what social policy would be. For us this is one of the most negative, most deeply antisocial aspects of these budgets. I want to denounce and denounce, and let them know and let all the citizens of Madrid, Barcelona, of any city hear it, that any increase in the price of public transport they have experienced is thanks to the cuts of the government, which continue and will continue in 2016. We must make this very clear, we must denounce it and we must denounce this sort of social insensitivity. Another amendment we are putting forward is to compensate the autonomous communities that have been affected by the centralization of the State's tax policies and in which different taxes have been suspended. This affects Andalusia, Catalonia, affects several communities that have seen how certain taxes that they have passed have been suspended by the Constitutional Court at the request of the State. We ask them to be compensated, because logically it seems that this is of justice. I would like to give one last example which is absolutely surprising to me. This is the tax on the promotion of the audiovisual sector, a tax that has been suspended a few hours ago by the Constitutional Court and which, curiously, was adopted unanimously in the Catalan Parliament. That is to say, the Members of the People's Party of Catalonia passed this tax; I suppose it should not be so unconstitutional, I do not see Mrs Sánchez-Camacho adopting unconstitutional things. But it can also be seen that the sieve of this centralizing obsession has not passed. Therefore, the cultural policies that were to be pursued and that had been agreed between all the political groups - I repeat: all the political groups - and the Catalan cultural sectors, by the work and grace of this challenge by the Government, will be rendered ineffective. In this I do not have to be as strong as in public transport, but the Catalan cultural sectors know that this government has just seriously harmed them in the development of the audiovisual sector. We believe that it is never too late and that here or in the Senate they can repent, that some who are autonomous deputies and at the same time senators at best at the last moment manage to save this issue and compensate the governments that have been affected by this centralizing obsession of the State. These are our two amendments to this section. These are two important issues of sensitivity and justice and are two questions for the Spanish constitutional framework to be believed. Unfortunately, every day they give us less reason to believe in this Constitution, which fails to protect the poor citizen who needs metropolitan transport and fails to protect the country's cultural industries. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u181	Thank you, President. They will allow me to make a request in the introduction of these sections 31, 32, 33 and 35 which I have already made in the Commission and which I will again make in this plenary. The specific request is the withdrawal of this amendment, 4321, an amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Shows the text of the above-mentioned amendment with the words 'Aggravation of Cordoba']] It is an amendment that removes 3 million euros from the City of Cordoba and reassigns 3 million euros to another locality: Lorca. [[Rumors]] This amendment is unheard of, unusual. None of the four thousand three hundred and twenty-six amendments tabled have done this, removing resources from one specific beneficiary to allocate them to others. But not only in this year's amendments; this has not been done in any year in the amendments. It is inappropriate, unusual and for Cordoba and the Cordobese, offensive; offensive to the point that the mayor herself of the city of Cordoba, her new mayor, has had to address the president of the government, Mr Rajoy, to withdraw this offensive amendment. And we do not say this for Lorca, because the Socialist Parliamentary Group has presented - and we want you to approve it - a comprehensive plan for Lorca, a comprehensive plan that would have a lot more resources than the EUR 3 million you take from the City Council of Córdoba. [[Shows the text of an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] I therefore repeat my request that the People's Parliamentary Group withdraw this offensive amendment for the City of Córdoba. And I'm going to give you other weighty reasons to see how offensive it is, because you also take it away from the province that you have less investment, in which less investment effort is made from all the Spanish provinces. I will give you a very significant figure: Cordoba will receive 78 euros per inhabitant in investments in this draft budgets, while the average investment per inhabitant in this year's budgets is 236 euros. Cordoba is the last Spanish province in investment effort; in the previous budget project, 2015 was the penultimate Spanish province, and in the previous one was the antepenultimate Spanish province. One important reason for the withdrawal of this blessed and offensive amendment is the repeated punishment that the province of Córdoba is receiving in the budgets of this legislature, in the budgets of the Government of Mariano Rajoy. I will give you the last data from Zapatero's budget for Córdoba: 165 million euros. Well, you have taken 1 from him and left him in less than 65, in 62,9 million euros. Therefore, the request is the withdrawal of this amendment by offensive. You yourself have tabled four other amendments in this section, increasing, for example, by 1,200,000 the budget for the free zone of Seville from the Contingency Fund, not removing it from any other municipality; you also increase the budget for the University Hospital of Cantabria from the Contingency Fund, not removing it from any city or province. You have used the usual contingency fund technique to avoid undermining resources already allocated to a third party. [[Rumors]] For us, from Cordoba, it is an offence, but it can even become a felony, because it is a true betrayal of our province. We in these sections have included, to compensate for this punishment treatment, up to a total of thirty-one amendments that could be approved to compensate the province of Córdoba, which would increase by 123 million. [[The Rumors Continue]] We have included in this section EUR 3 million for the City of Jerez, a town hall that they left in the most ruinous situation, with accounts that they have not presented, and even the new mayor is asking in a bold way for help and assistance in the general budgets of the State; we have included an amendment of EUR 3 million for the City of Jerez from the Contingency Fund, obviously not from any other town hall that would imply a decrease in its resources. We have included EUR 19 million for the urban transport of the various municipalities, in order to increase aid for collective urban transport. We have also included an amendment of EUR 750,000 in Section 31, in particular for the former Irun Immigration Institute, from the Contingency Fund, as appropriate. We have included €7 million for the Asturias Transport Consortium. We have also included 2 million euros for the San Cristóbal de La Laguna desalinizer in the Canary Islands. We have also included an additional €7 million for transport in the Canary Islands. In short, we have included an amendment to section 31 and six amendments to section 32, with one last amendment, which is... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u182	Mr. Hurtado, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u183	... definitive and that it amounts to 1.250 million for all the autonomous communities in which the Statute of Autonomy is not being complied with: Andalusia, to which is already due in total the sum of 2.5 billion euros for not complying with the third additional provision, Catalonia, Aragon, Castile and León, Extremadura, Balearic Islands. There are six autonomous communities that are being punished and you are in breach of the law, you are being disloyal and in breach of the law and you are causing territorial tensions. This is one of the reasons added to territorial tensions, not to comply with the statutes of autonomy, not to comply... [[Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for the excellent work]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u184	Mr. Hurtado, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u185	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u186	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Finish it now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u187	... in an obsessive, unfair and illegal manner with the statutes of autonomy, which are laws. [[Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros: Come on!]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u188	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. For the People's Group, Mr Ordóñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hurtado, you must congratulate yourself on the fact that you can table amendments on provincial expenditure. You can do that in this Parliament. In the Parliament of Andalusia, with the opacity that his Government is causing, no amendments can be tabled. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] The People's Parliamentary Group will vote against the amendments tabled by the other groups in relation to these sections. We are not going to expand on a detailed analysis of Sections 32 and 33 because Members Mr Matari and Mrs Romero have presented with the usual brilliance the excellence of the budget headings which transfer resources to the territorial entities. The various agreements and programme contracts signed by the State with the Autonomous Communities have full funding in the section with 923 million euros. Territorial funding is increased to EUR 110,551 million. The compensation funds are provided for in Section 33 with an amount of EUR 582 million. But there are also 184,433 million euros that the Government of the People's Party has made available to the autonomous communities and local entities in recent years so that they can meet their economic commitments and meet public services: health, education and social benefits. This is the social commitment of the Government, realities and not electoral mantras of the nineteenth or early twentieth century. Again the opposition, fulfilling the annual rite, vehemently and irresponsiblely commits item 929, for unforeseen and unclassified functions. It intends to use an item intended for unforeseen or non-evaluable needs in order to cover its particular commitments, even if its articulation is fictitious, inadequate and impossible. What does it matter? I'll give you some examples. The two hundred and thirty-five amendments to the Compromises fall under Section 31 for a total amount of more than EUR 1.7 billion. The nearly five hundred amendments of the Socialist Party to section 17 are down in this same section 31 for more than EUR 2 billion. A single amendment to Convergence i Unió, number 4.130, is down in this section for an amount of EUR 1,230 million. How do you expect 40 million to finance actions that exceed EUR 10 billion? Do they not understand that their work must necessarily be presided over by seriousness, rigour and responsibility? Do you not believe, gentlemen of the opposition, that the citizens expect from you something more than toasting to the sun, less posture and more postulated, less electoralism and more solidarity with the common effort of all Spaniards? It's just that, except UPyD, they don't even comply with the formality of providing this section with casualties in other games. How do they intend to deal with amendments which do not take over economic correspondence under other headings? No expenditure commitments or obligations exceeding the amount of appropriations authorised in the statements of expenditure may be purchased. Article 46 of the General Budget Act. He criticized Mr Hurtado with rapture and vehemence that the state's debt had increased, by the way, when his party had doubled it, nothing less than 35 billion euros. They complained about the inheritance and left us a debt of 85 billion euros. And now the Socialist Party, like the other groups, has no decency to ask us to be in debt in thousands and billions of euros more. They propose one thing and the other, criticise the increase in debt and, in turn, call for it to be increased by billions of euros. Consistency, ladies and gentlemen, coherence How do we fund this increase? Do they intend to finance themselves with an extraordinary credit from the public deficit? Remind them it's sealed. We already know that the Socialist Party has no special concern for spending limits. It is enough to analyze your accounts from 2008 to 20011, with gaps of up to 13 points in two years. What the opposition seeks with these amendments is clearly to look at the neighbor's balcony and tell him that he has already been talked about, that his book has already been talked about, forgetting, as provided for in article 26 of the General Budget Act or the Organic Budget Stability Act, that we are faced with the economic programming of the State governed by the principles of stability and financial sustainability, multiannuality, transparency, efficiency of the allocation of resources and the use of public resources, but also responsibility and institutional loyalty. Ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility of a Member, our ultimate responsibility, is not to stay well with the neighbour, but to help distribute the resources available with the greatest fairness, prioritizing the needs of all the citizens of Spain. Loyalty and responsibility. How can the Members of the Socialist Party and those who have approved their accounts, and are therefore responsible, criticise budgets which increase 1% of the salaries of officials when you have lowered them by 5% and forever? They now criticize the government when economic recovery allows for a 1% increase in civil servants' salaries. They ask for 1.5% as they could ask for 30%, but you dropped them. Ladies and gentlemen, history is the whole set of realities, not misrepresentations, as others do, because where you talk about cuts there is maintenance of public services; where you talk about job insecurity, there is the creation of a million jobs. They're talking about tail wind. I can assure you that I have been in Germany, England and other countries and the wind is the same or higher than that of Spain. The history of these four years is the account of a great common effort, difficult but essentially generous, of citizens who have raised Spain to the example of the capacity, overcoming and success of the whole of Europe. In this task, they have relied on the loyal and honest cooperation of a Government that was able to interpret their needs and make the most appropriate decisions as difficult as they might be. Ladies and gentlemen, the government did not put forward its party interests but the present and future of all Spaniards. Others, ladies and gentlemen, cannot say the same. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u190	Thank you very much, Mr Ordóñez. In a minute we'll vote. [[Pause]] Let's start voting. They're gonna be long, so I'm asking for patience and attention. We have set the minimum time for voting and I will simply say approved or rejected; I will only give the result in the opinions. Let's start then. Section 12, Foreign and Cooperation Affairs. Amendments by the Joint Group. BLOCK VOTING OF Mr Serrano Izko'S AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 144 against, 179 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u191	They're rejected. Amendments from the Joint Group, Mrs Jordà. Amendments 2859, 2860, 2864 and 2865. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 29 against, 193 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u192	They're rejected. Amendment 3052. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 138 against 180; abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u193	It's rejected. The rest of Mrs Jordà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 31 against, 285 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u194	They're rejected. Amendments to the Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2650. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 131 against, 182 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u195	It's rejected. Amendments 2651 to 2653. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 13 against, 184 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u196	They're rejected. Amendment 2657. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 27 against, 182 abstentions, 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u197	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 17 against, 182 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u198	They're rejected. Amendments to the Plural Left. Amendments 1997, 1999, 2001 to 2009 and 2011. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 124 against, 179 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u199	They're rejected. Amendment 1998. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 132 against, 180 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u200	It's rejected. Amendment 2010. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 24 against, 180 abstentions, 116.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u201	It's rejected. Amendment 2012. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 19 against, 180 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u202	It's rejected. Amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union. Firstly, Amendment 3619. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 137 against, 180 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u203	It's rejected. Amendment 3620. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 31 against, 283 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u204	It's rejected. Amendments 3622, 3624, 3626 and 3627. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 31 against, 185 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u205	They're rejected. Amendment 3631. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 139 against, 178 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u206	It's rejected. Remaining amendments by CiU. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 133 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u207	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Firstly, Amendments Nos 513, 515, 523 to 525 and 530. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 133 against, 180 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u208	They're rejected. Amendment 514. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 112 against, 184 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u209	It's rejected. Amendment 516. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 111 against, 182 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u210	It's rejected. Amendments 518 and 521. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 111 against, 180 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u211	They're rejected. Amendments 519 and 520. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 123 against, 180 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u212	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 122 against, 180 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u213	They're rejected. Vote on the text of the section 12 opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 181 against, 143 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u214	It was adopted. Section 34, Financial relations with the European Union. It has no amendments, and the opinion in section 34 is therefore voted on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 298 against, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u215	It was adopted. Title I, Articles 1 to 13. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Firstly, we voted on Amendment No 2574. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 6 against, 182 abstentions, 132.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u216	It's rejected. Amendment 2642. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 5 against, 191 abstentions, 123.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u217	It's rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendment 1922. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 19 against, 180 abstentions, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u218	It's rejected. Amendment 1923. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 123 against, 179 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u219	It's rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendment 289. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 117 against, 183 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u220	It's rejected. Vote on the opinion, without prejudice to any amendments which may be made to it as a result of the amendments adopted in the course of the debate. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour 180 against 145.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u221	It was adopted. Title II, Articles 14 to 18 and new. Amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union 3495. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 139 against, 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u222	It's rejected. Text of the opinion in Title II. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour 179 against 147.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u223	It was adopted. Title III, Articles 19 to 35. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendment 2475. [[Mr. Quevedo Iturbe]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 25 against, 179 abstentions, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u224	It's rejected. Amendment 2573. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 131 against, 180 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u225	It's rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 3288. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 136 against, 179 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u226	It's rejected. Mrs Fernández Davila's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 18 against, 278 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u227	They're rejected. Amendment of the Basque Parliamentary Group No 236. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 124 against, 188 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u228	It's rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2575. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 117 against, 182 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u229	It's rejected. Amendment 2578. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 115 against, 182 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u230	It's rejected. Amendments 2580 to 2582. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 7 against, 281 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u231	They're rejected. Amendment 2583. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 14 against, 182 abstentions, 123.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u232	It's rejected. Amendment 2584. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 13 against, 285 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u233	It's rejected. Amendments 2585 and 2590. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 14 against, 284 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u234	They're rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 15 against, 183 abstentions, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u235	They're rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendments 1924 and 1928 to 1930. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 124 against, 178 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u236	They're rejected. Amendments 1931-1937 and 1947. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 19 against, 179 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u237	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 19 against, 280 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u238	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 138 against, 179 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u239	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 251 to 254. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 136 against, 177 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u240	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 123 against, 178 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u241	They're rejected. Text of the opinion in Title III. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 179 against, 143 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u242	It was adopted. Title IV, Articles 36 to 46. Amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group, number 2818. [[Mr. Serrano Izko]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 144 against, 179.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u243	It's rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 131 against, 180 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u244	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. First, Amendment 2594. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 110 against, 191 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u245	It's rejected. Amendment 2595. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 122 against, 191 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u246	It's rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendment 1948. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 124 against, 179 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u247	It's rejected. Amendment 1949. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 19 against, 179 abstentions, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u248	It's rejected. Amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union. Amendment 3498. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 138 against, 179 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u249	It's rejected. Amendment 3499. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 33 against, 180 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u250	It's rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 133 against, 182 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u251	It's rejected. Text of the opinion in Title IV. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour 177 against 149.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u252	It was adopted. Title VIII, Articles 107 and 108 and new. Amendment of the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, 2605. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 128 against, 179 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u253	It's rejected. Amendment of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. Amendment 3521. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 139 against, 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u254	It's rejected. Amendment by the Socialist Group. Amendment 288. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 133 against, 181 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u255	It's rejected. Text of the opinion in Title VIII. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour 181 against 144.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u256	It was adopted. Section 07, Passive Classes. There are no amendments, so we are going to vote on the opinion in this section. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 192 against, 134.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u257	It was adopted. Title V, Articles 47 to 59. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2597. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 129 against, 179 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u258	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 113 against, 179 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u259	They're rejected. Amendment of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. Amendment 3500. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 137 against, 178 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u260	It's rejected. Text of the opinion in Title V. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 180 against, 144 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u261	It was adopted. Section 06, Public Debt. Text of Section 06 opinion. There are no amendments, so we are voting directly on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour 180 against 145.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u262	It was adopted. Title VI, Articles 60 to 72 and new. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group We are going to vote in full on all its amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 127 against, 179 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u263	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 3306. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 19 against, 283 abstentions 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u264	It's rejected. Amendments 3309 and 3310. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 23 against, 181 abstentions 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u265	They're rejected. Mrs Fernández Davila's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 122 against, 181 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u266	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Firstly, Amendment 2599. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 15 against, 181 abstentions, 122.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u267	It's rejected. Amendment 2602. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 116 against, 181 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u268	It's rejected. Amendment 2606. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 117 against, 182 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u269	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 107 against, 182 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u270	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. Firstly, Amendments Nos 3506 and 3507. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 125 against, 180 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u271	They're rejected. Amendment 3509. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 24 against, 291 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u272	It's rejected. Amendments 3510 to 3512. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 29 against, 180 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u273	They're rejected. Remaining amendments by CiU. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 132 against, 180 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u274	They're rejected. Text of the opinion in Title VI. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 181 against, 144 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u275	It was adopted. Title VII, Articles 73 to 106, and new ones. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Vote on a block of all amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 32 against, 288 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u276	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2603. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 9 against, 280 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u277	It's rejected. Amendment 2604. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 118 against, 181 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u278	It's rejected. Amendment of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendment 1950. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 130 against, 185 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u279	It's rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union. Amendment 3516. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 36 against, 281 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u280	It's rejected. Amendment 3517. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 134 against, 184 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u281	It's rejected. Remaining amendments by CiU. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 135 against, 179 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u282	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 136 against, 178 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u283	They're rejected. Text of the opinion in Title VII. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour 181 against 144.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u284	It was adopted. Additional provisions, first to seventy-fifth and new; transitional, first to third and new; derogations, first and second and new; and final, first to twelfth and new. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendment 4148. [[Mr. Salvador Armendáriz]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 10 against, 287 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u285	It's rejected. Amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 2819. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 21 against, 291 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u286	It's rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 233. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 20 against, 180 abstentions, 124.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u287	It's rejected. Amendment 234. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 123 against, 179 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u288	It's rejected. Amendment 235. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 32 against, 287 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u289	It's rejected. Amendment 4180. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 134 against, 185; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u290	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mr. Baldoví Roda]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 137 against, 181 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u291	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendments 2467 and 2468. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 140 against, 178 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u292	They're rejected. Amendment 2469. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 32 against, 186 abstentions, 106.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u293	It's rejected. Amendments 2474 and 2477. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 23 against, 180 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u294	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mr. Quevedo]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 125 against, 179 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u295	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 3316. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 25 against, 285 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u296	It's rejected. Amendments 3318 and 3319. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 20 against, 180 abstentions, 124.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u297	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mrs. Fernández Davila]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 135 against, 179 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u298	They're rejected. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendments 3273, 3281 and 3285. [[Mrs. Jordà]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 133 against, 180 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u299	They're rejected. Amendment 3275. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 139 against, 179 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u300	It's rejected. Amendments 3276 and 3277. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 35 against, 180 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u301	They're rejected. Amendments 3278 and 3279. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 18 against, 284 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u302	They're rejected. Amendment 3280. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 18 against, 288 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u303	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mrs. Jordà]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 30 against, 283 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u304	They're rejected. Amendments of the Basque Parliamentary Group Amendment 237. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 137 against 185.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u305	It's rejected. Amendment 238. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 125 against, 181 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u306	It's rejected. Amendment 239. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 30 against, 180 abstentions, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u307	It's rejected. Amendment 240. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 32 against, 186 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u308	It's rejected. Amendment 241. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 138 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u309	It's rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendments 2607 and 2616. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 17 against, 182 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u310	They're rejected. Amendments 2608 and 2622. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 5 against, 181 abstentions, 131.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u311	They're rejected. Amendments 2609 and 2641. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 14 against, 182 abstentions, 122.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u312	They're rejected. Amendments 2610, 2611 and 2617. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 127 against, 181 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u313	They're rejected. Amendments 2612. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 16 against, 189 abstentions, 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u314	It's rejected. Amendments 2613 and 2614. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 119 against, 182 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u315	They're rejected. Amendments 2615. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 17 against, 296 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u316	It's rejected. Amendment 2618. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 25 against, 282 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u317	It's rejected. Amendment 2619. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 5 against, 301 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u318	It's rejected. Amendments 2620 and 2629. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 15 against, 284 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u319	They're rejected. Amendments 2621 and 2639. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 5 against, 283 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u320	They're rejected. Amendment 2623. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 6 against, 191 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u321	It's rejected. Amendment 2624. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 110 against, 182 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u322	It's rejected. Amendment 2625. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 118 against, 181 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u323	It's rejected. Amendment 2626. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 5 against, 284 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u324	It's rejected. Amendment 2627. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 5 against, 284 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u325	It's rejected. Amendment 2628. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 119 against, 192 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u326	It's rejected. Amendments 2630, 2632 and 2635. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 15 against, 182 abstentions, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u327	They're rejected. Amendment 2631. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 118 against, 181 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u328	It's rejected. Amendment 2633. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 16 against, 283 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u329	It's rejected. Amendment 2634. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 5 against, 292 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u330	It's rejected. Amendment 2640. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 5 against, 291 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u331	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the UPyD Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 117 against, 182 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u332	They're rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendment 1957. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 19 against, 289 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u333	It's rejected. Amendments 1959, 1963, 1967 and 1981. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 133 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u334	They're rejected. Amendments 1960, 1977, 1980, 1982 and 1991. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 19 against, 284 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u335	They're rejected. Amendments 1964 and 1965. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 32 against, 181 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u336	They're rejected. Amendments 1970, 1972, 1973, 1984 and 1990. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 19 against, 180 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u337	They're rejected. Amendment 1974. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 123 against, 184 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u338	It's rejected. Amendment 1975. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 125 against, 179 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u339	It's rejected. Amendment 1976. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 132 against, 183 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u340	It's rejected. Amendment 1978. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour 130 against 186; abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u341	It's rejected. Amendment 1979. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 124 against, 180 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u342	It's rejected. Amendment 1986. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 17 against, 283 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u343	It's rejected. Rest of amendments by the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 124 against, 180 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u344	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. Amendments 3525 to 3527, 3534, 3536, 3537, 3550, 3553, 3566, 3585, 3588, 3591 and 3593. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 36 against, 181 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u345	They're rejected. Amendments 3531, 3546, 3597 and 3598. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 125 against, 185 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u346	They're rejected. Amendments 3532, 3538, 3541, 3556, 3560, 3565, 3574 to 3576, 3582, 3586, 3587, 3595 and 3596. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 130 against, 179 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u347	They're rejected. Amendment 3544. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 24 against, 179 abstentions, 115.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u348	It's rejected. Amendments 3567 to 3572. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 133 against, 183 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u349	They're rejected. Amendments 3589 and 4139. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 19 against, 188 abstentions, 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u350	They're rejected. Amendment 3590. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 20 against, 186 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u351	It's rejected. Amendment 3592. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 128 against, 182 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u352	It's rejected. Amendment 3594. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 28 against, 280 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u353	It's rejected. Amendment 4135. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 25 against, 180 abstentions, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u354	It's rejected. Amendments 4136 and 4138. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 23 against, 291 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u355	They're rejected. Remaining amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió.. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 134 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u356	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 291 to 293, 295, 296, 300, 301, 303, 304, 306, 379 and 424. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 119 against, 184 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u357	They're rejected. Amendment 298. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 119 against, 181 abstentions, 17
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u358	It's rejected. Amendment 308. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 124 against, 177 abstentions 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u359	It's rejected. Amendment 309. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 125 against, 177 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u360	It's rejected. Amendment 310. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 104 against, 181 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u361	It's rejected. Amendments 329, 330, 333, 336, 338, 339, 361, 380, 420, and 451. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 135 against, 180 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u362	They're rejected. Amendment 341. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 121 against, 180 abstentions 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u363	It's rejected. Amendments 388 to 391, 393, 405 to 408, 410, 412, 413, 418 and 470. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 107 against, 179 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u364	They're rejected. Amendments 356. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 110 against, 181 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u365	It's rejected. Amendment 357. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 112 against, 182 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u366	It's rejected. Amendment 361. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 113 against, 187 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u367	It's rejected. Amendment 367. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 107 against, 187 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u368	It's rejected. Amendment 368. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 121 against, 176 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u369	It's rejected. Amendment 369. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 113 against, 179 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u370	It's rejected. Amendments 370 to 374, 392, 394 to 403, 409, 414 to 416, 471 to 478, 488 to 491, and 493 to 495. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 118 against, 178 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u371	They're rejected. Amendments 381, 384 and 385. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 126 against, 180 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u372	They're rejected. Amendments 382 and 383. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 118 against, 189 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u373	They're rejected. Amendments 386 and 387. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 116 against, 189 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u374	They're rejected. Amendment 404. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 112 against, 179 abstentions, 27.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u375	It's rejected. Amendment 411. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 107 against, 179 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u376	It's rejected. Amendment 421. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 107 against, 187 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u377	It's rejected. Amendments 461 to 466. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 121 against, 180 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u378	They're rejected. Amendment 492. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 120 against, 179 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u379	It's rejected. Amendments 4335 and 4346 to 4348. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 118 against, 179 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u380	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 122 against, 179 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u381	They're rejected. We shall now be voting on the amendments tabled by the Socialist and Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Baldoví]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 124 against, 180 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u382	They're rejected. Amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. Amendment 4241. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 185 against, 4 abstentions, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u383	It's approved. Transactional amendment to amendment 4242. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 188 against, 5 abstentions, 128.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u384	It's approved. Text of the opinion of the additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 180 against, 144 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u385	It was adopted. Annexes [[I to XIV and new]] UPyD amendments. Amendment 2643. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 13 against, 287 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u386	It's rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendment 290. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 122 against, 184 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u387	It's rejected. Amendment 297. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 117 against, 183 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u388	It's rejected. Amendment 307. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 129 against, 182 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u389	It's rejected. Amendment 337. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 120 against, 179 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u390	It's rejected. Amendments 511 and 512. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 134 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u391	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 108 against, 178 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u392	They're rejected. Text of the opinion of the Annexes. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour 181 against 145.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u393	It was adopted. For an idea to be made, we are now more or less in the middle of the vote, so much remains to be done. [[Rumors]] Section 25, Presidency. Amendment 2847 of the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mr. Serrano Izko]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 138 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u394	It's rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP [[Mrs. Jordan and Roura]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 132 against, 180 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u395	They're rejected. Amendment 2772 by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 132 against, 177 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u396	It's rejected. Amendment 3615 of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 137 against, 179 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u397	It's rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE Socialist Parliamentary Group'S AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 127 against, 179 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u398	They're rejected. Text of section 25 opinion. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 176 against, 149 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u399	It was adopted. Section 19, Employment and Social Security. Amendment 2852 of the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mr. Serrano Izko]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 139 against, 176 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u400	It's rejected. Amendment 2515 of the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mr. Quevedo Iturbe]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 325 votes in favour, 120 against, 181 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u401	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Quevedo's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 121 against, 179 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u402	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendment 3483. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 133 against, 177 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u403	It's rejected. Mrs Fernández Davila's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 127 against, 179 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u404	They're rejected. Amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group Amendments 2898 and 2899. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 35 against, 283 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u405	They're rejected. The rest of Mrs Jordà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 140 against, 176 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u406	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2738. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 131 against, 179 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u407	It's rejected. Amendment 2739. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 19 against, 178 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u408	It's rejected. Amendment 2740. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 119 against, 179 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u409	It's rejected. Amendments 2742 and 2743. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 16 against, 178 abstentions, 122.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u410	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Union for Progress and Democracy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 116 against, 178 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u411	They're rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendments 2324 to 2326. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 134 against, 180 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u412	They're rejected. Rest of amendments of the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 123 against, 177 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u413	They're rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unió. Amendments 3612 and 3937. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour 138 against 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u414	They're rejected. Remaining amendments by CiU. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 36 against, 183 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u415	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 1329, 1330, 1333, 1334, 1341 and 1345. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 132 against, 180 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u416	They're rejected. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 123 against, 178 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u417	They're rejected. Text of section 19 opinion. There are two votes, the first being the vote on the opinion on the correction to the compromise amendment incorporated in the Commission in relation to the resettlement and resettlement programme for refugees. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 199 against, 5 abstentions, 115.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u418	It was adopted. Now the vote on the rest of the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 176 against, 147 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u419	It was adopted. Section 60, Social Security. Amendment 1917 of the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mr. Álvarez Sostres]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 116 against, 180 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u420	It's rejected. Amendment 3362 of the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mrs. Fernández Davila]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 132 against, 180 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u421	It's rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 2813. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 129 against, 179 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u422	It's rejected. Amendment 2815. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 13 against, 180 abstentions, 124.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u423	It's rejected. Amendment 2817. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 27 against, 179 abstentions, 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u424	It's rejected. Amendments of the IU Parliamentary Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. Amendment 2446. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 130 against, 180 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-15-CD150915.u425	It's rejected. Amendment 2447. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 117 against, 177 abstentions, 24.
