ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u1	The meeting was called to order. Communication from the Government to the plenary of the House calling for a debate on the Spanish contribution to a third aid programme for Greece. This debate will be in line with what we agreed on in the Board of Spokesmen that we had at eleven o'clock. I give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am attending this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies to request your support and approval of the third rescue programme in Greece. As you know, it has been the Government's will to bring this third aid package to the House for two fundamental reasons: on the one hand, the significance of what has happened with the Hellenic country in recent months for the whole of economic and monetary union; on the other hand, Spain's considerable contribution, together with this third package, will come close to EUR 34 billion. All this makes it necessary to analyse in depth and to approve, if your honourable Members consider this to be the case, Spain's position on this third programme. This Government has always been in solidarity with Greece. We have always been in favour of a third programme and, above all, we have been in favour of Greece's stay in the euro. We have come to all the negotiations on this in an open and constructive spirit. Reaching the agreement that you have before you today has not been easy. The European institutions and the Greek Government have gone a long way that has not been without difficulties, but the fundamental thing is that with this programme Greece remains in the euro and that we can now trust that the country can put this long period of crisis behind us. The programme also complies with the rules of monetary union and strict conditionality on the implementation of reforms. In my speech I will briefly recall, first of all, the background to this third aid programme, both the previous two rescues, and the agreement of the Heads of State and Government of 12 July, which served as a preamble to this new aid. Secondly, I will detail the contents of this package to you, particularly in the memorandum of understanding and in the terms of financial assistance. Finally, I will refer to Spain's total exposure to Greece in all of these three rescue programmes. The first rescue programme was granted in May 2010 in the face of the deteriorating state of public finances and the loss of access to the markets of the Hellenic country. The financial assistance granted amounted to EUR 110 billion, of which EUR 80,000 were bilateral loans from the euro area countries and EUR 30 billion came from the International Monetary Fund. As you know, this package was not enough and in March 2012 a second programme was granted for a total of EUR 172.5 billion, of which EUR 28 billion was provided by the International Monetary Fund, while the rest was provided by the Financial Facility. Ladies and gentlemen, the terms of these loans were not only very advantageous, but during these years they were significantly relaxed in order to reduce the financial burden of the Greek State. In the case of the first bailout, the maturities were extended to thirty years with ten years of deficiency. The interest rate margin was reduced by more than 80 % to 50 basis points. In the case of the second programme, the average maturity almost doubled, to thirty-two and a half years. The relief provided by these measures has been quite significant. In total, it is estimated that Greek debt has been reduced to 50 points of Greek GDP and has also allowed Greece's interest burden to be much lower than that of other European countries. In addition, as a condition for giving the second programme a green light, Greece carried out a debt restructuring in the hands of the private sector, with a nominal withdrawal of more than 50 %. This allowed him to reduce his debt by more than 100 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to these programmes and the reforms implemented, the Greek economy began to experience a progressive improvement in mid-2014. GDP grew again after many years of contraction, employment and investment began to expand and public accounts recorded a primary surplus. I also remind you that your growth forecasts were then among the highest in the euro area, close to 3% by 2015 and 3.7% by 2016. In addition, in 2014 Greece returned to debt markets with bond issues at three and five years, a sign that investor confidence was improving, and even talked about a clean exit from the second rescue program. However, ladies and gentlemen, you already know the difficulties surrounding the closure of this programme, especially after the new Alexis Tsipras Government's aspiration to change its conditions has been noted. For this reason, last February, the assistance was extended until the end of June to allow time to complete the last revision of the assistance. After months of discussions, the negotiations were interrupted when at the end of June Prime Minister Tsipras decided to unilaterally convene a referendum calling for the no for the last proposal of the institutions, a proposal that was still under negotiation. From there, the events took place quickly. The second programme expired on 30 June without completion and, therefore, some EUR 13 billion committed remained unused. On the same day, Greece defaulted to the International Monetary Fund in arrears with the International Monetary Fund. As there was no umbrella for a programme, the ECB froze the emergency liquidity it was providing. In the face of the high outflows of deposits, the Greek Government decreed a financial corralite that lasted more than twenty days. In fact, some capital restrictions still continue, the effects of which are still difficult to calculate. This is how we arrived, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 July when the Greek Government asked the European Stability Mechanism for new financial aid. The request follows the outcome of the referendum that we all know, at a time of enormous uncertainty about the economic situation in Greece and its future in monetary union. In this context, the meetings of the Eurogroup and the Euro Summit held on 11 and 12 July were crucial. That was where the general framework for this third programme, which keeps the Greek country in the euro, was decided. As a precondition for the start of negotiations on the new programme, the Greek Government had to adopt an ambitious set of measures to restore confidence and as a sign of commitment. Among them I would like to highlight the following. Firstly, the reform of VAT, with the aim of increasing collection, simplifying tax rates and broadening the basis by eliminating exemptions. The new structure reduces the rates to three, setting the general at 23 %. This has meant a significant increase for many products. For example, restoration and public transport, which previously accounted for 13%, now do so at the general rate of 23%. In addition, discounts are phased out on the islands. It is important to remember that this VAT reform is in addition to other tax measures recently adopted by the Greek Government to increase income, such as the increase in corporate tax from 26% to 29%, the increase in withholding tax on personal income, the rise in luxury tax or the increase in the burden of solidarity. A first phase of the reform of the pension system was the second major reform carried out, with measures to improve the sustainability of the system, including the increase in the retirement age to sixty-seven years, the elimination of early retirements, the increase in contributions and the freezing of current pension thresholds until 2021. In turn, measures were taken to ensure the independence of statistical bodies; on the other hand, an effective implementation of the rules of the so-called European Fiscal Pact, the treaty we signed in 2012 to improve fiscal coordination; also, an in-depth reform of the Civil Prosecution Act and a full transposition of the Banking Resolution Directive. All these measures, to which I have only referred in part, facilitated the urgent granting of a bridge loan of 7 billion from the European Financial Stability Mechanism, the rescue fund from the Community budget. This enabled Greece to meet its most immediate maturity with the European Central Bank and to remedy the situation of arrears with the International Monetary Fund while the new programme was under way. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now turn to the third programme. This package was presented to the Eurogroup last Friday after intense negotiations between the three institutions and Greece in recent weeks. It has obtained preliminary green light from the Eurogroup, although it will not be subject to final approval until tomorrow, once the parliamentary requirements have been met. This third rescue takes place in a much more difficult economic scenario than we had at the end of 2014. Much time has been wasted, which has led to a major deterioration in the economic situation in Greece. Despite the growth results of the second quarter, institutional analyses suggest that the Greek economy could contract around 2% this year. Today there is concern about the sustainability of Greek debt, a debt that, according to the International Monetary Fund, was sustainable by mid-2014. That is why financial assistance is now far greater than would have been needed at the end of last year. In particular, we are facing a three-year loan for a total amount of €86 billion. This figure includes a reserve of up to 25 billion euros to recapitalise and heal the Greek bank. This assistance is associated with a macro-economic adjustment programme with strict conditionality, which is reflected in a memorandum of understanding agreed between the Greek authorities and the institutions. It is an ambitious set of more than 250 measures in the different areas of the economy and revolves around four fundamental pillars. The first is reforms to restore fiscal sustainability. Greece should achieve a primary public surplus - the difference between the budgetary balance and the payment of interest - in the medium term of 3,5 % of GDP, with a primary leap path of a deficit of at least 0.25 % in the first year, 0,5 % of primary surplus in 2016, 1,75 % in 2017 and 3,5 % in 2018 thereafter. To this end, in addition to the measures I have mentioned above, it will, firstly, carry out a comprehensive set of tax reforms; secondly, it will complete the profound reform of the pension system; thirdly, it will improve the management of its public finances and, finally, it will take measures to ensure the payment of taxes and to combat tax evasion. The second pillar is reforms to ensure financial stability. Greece must take immediate measures to address the problem of late payment in the banking sector, strengthen the insolvency framework and significantly improve the corporate governance of Greek banks and the Hellenic recapitalisation fund. Further, after the analysis of the Single Supervisory Mechanism, banks will be recapitalized by the end of the year as necessary. This includes the possibility of applying write-offs to senior debt holders, but the write-offs of deposits are totally excluded. The third pillar consists of a comprehensive programme of structural reforms in the labour, goods and services markets. In the labour market, for example, independent experts will carry out an in-depth review of all labour legislation, including the regulation of dismissal and collective bargaining, and a new labour code will be adopted before December. Greece must also take action on education and OECD recommendations on competition. It must liberalise regulated professions, reduce administrative burdens and undertake major reforms in the energy, water and transport sectors. An important privatization process has also been envisaged. In order to ensure the ambition of the Greek process, an independent fund will be set up before the end of the year to assess assets and manage privatisations under the supervision of the Community authorities. It is envisaged that the fund will generate EUR 50 billion over the next three years, money that Greece must devote to the adjustment programme. One half shall use it to amortise the recapitalisation of banks and other assets and the other half shall allocate it, in identical parts, to investments and to reduce their debt ratio. The last pillar is reforms to increase the efficiency of public administrations. This includes anti-corruption measures to strengthen the functioning of the judicial system and to ensure the independence of key institutions such as the Tax Agency and the Statistical Institute. In addition, the Hellenic Government will launch, together with the Commission, a programme for technical training and depoliticization of the Administration. As you see, this is a very ambitious conditionality, it will be updated every quarter and its compliance will be strictly monitored by the institutions. It is hoped that Greece will be able to overcome the accumulated imbalances and recover a sustainable path of growth and employment generation. Financial assistance is provided on favourable terms and conditions. Thus, the loans will have an average maturity of up to thirty-two years and an interest rate equivalent to the financing cost of the MED plus 10 basis points. They are very low interest if we take into account that today the financing of the MED is around 1%. As you know, disbursements are carried out on a step-by-step basis, subject to compliance with the measures described. The first disbursement will amount to EUR 26 billion and includes two tranches. The first, of 10 billion, will be made available immediately in a segregated MEDE account for the recapitalisation and consolidation of banks. The second will be produced in several subtrams, starting with 13 billion on August 20. As preconditions for the first disbursement, some 50 actions have been established, including the complete elimination of the legislative measures recently introduced by the Hellenic Government to reverse commitments from the previous programme. The Commission considers that these preconditions have been broadly satisfied with the legislation adopted by the Greek Government during July and last 14 August. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Greece has generated an intense debate about the reliability of the European Union's programmes. However, we have before us examples, such as that of Ireland or Portugal, which show that when these programmes are implemented rigorously they work. It is clear that there are significant risks around the Greek case. The main risk is the risk of execution, given the complex Greek political scenario. It is not enough to agree on a series of measures, but they must be carried out with determination so that the Greek economy can grow again. For this it is essential that the Greek authorities endorse these reforms, which in Europe is called ownership. The Greek Government must set in motion, in time and form, each and every one of them; if not, there is a risk of failure and return to the exit box. Secondly, it is essential to integrate into the programme three elements whose compatibility is, ladies and gentlemen, certainly complex: firstly, the participation of the International Monetary Fund in the third programme; secondly, to ensure the sustainability of Greek debt and, finally, to do so without nominal removals, a condition which has been reiterated both by the Eurogroup and by the leaders of the euro. Having said that, the Eurogroup is prepared to consider, if necessary, other measures to ensure that Greece's indebtedness remains at sustainable levels, such as possible extensions of grace and amortisation periods. This will be decided after the first revision of the programme, provided that it has been successfully completed. In addition, the Eurogroup hopes that at that time the International Monetary Fund will be able to confirm its participation in this new rescue through a programme. I shall now turn to Spain's contribution to Greece. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, Spain has been a committed and supportive partner with Greece. We have actively participated in the three programmes of the Greek rescue. We have done so despite the fact that the Spanish exposure to the Greek country was very small and when our economy was going through enormous difficulties. It is certainly something that we must put into value. In the first rescue programme to Greece, Spain granted a bilateral loan of 6.7 billion, making Greece our main debtor. I have already referred to the advantageous terms of this loan. In fact, the interest that Greece is paying us right now is around 0.5%. This contrasts, ladies and gentlemen, with the average cost of the Spanish Treasury when this funding was granted in 2010, which was slightly below 4%. In the second rescue, Spain has finally provided guarantees for 17 billion euros. It is less than EUR 19 billion initially committed because, as I have already indicated, the second programme has not been completed. In this third programme, which is currently under discussion, Spain's contribution will be close to EUR 10,150 million. This is the case if we take into account that our share in the MEDE is close to 12%. All this makes Spain's total exposure to Greece total around EUR 34 billion. That is an important figure, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we must show our solidarity with Greece. This last period has also been complicated and difficult for us and, despite that, we have shown our commitment to economic and monetary union and also to those who needed our help. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Today we must once again show our solidarity with the Hellenic country as we have done over these six years and in circumstances that are not always propitious. We consistently call for the House to vote in favour of this third rescue. I want to insist that this third rescue respects the rules of the euro zone that we have all given ourselves. Failure to do so would put the single currency at risk. In addition, it demands on the Greek side the implementation of a very strict conditionality in order to boost its economy and overcome its problems. The Hellenic Government has already taken an important step by taking the previous steps for the start of the negotiations and the first disbursement, but there is no doubt that there is still a long and complex way to go. The key now is for Greece to grow again and generate employment. It is therefore necessary to carry out the reforms to which it has committed itself. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are three lessons from what we have experienced in the last eight months that we must not forget. The first is that there are no shortcuts. Only fiscally responsible policies and policies that ensure competitiveness and long-term growth are included in the euro area. This is what guarantees a country's prosperity and the future of the euro project. The second lesson is that the siren chants of populism end up generating only mirages. In the end, what they leave behind are unfulfilled expectations, frustration and social discontent. The third lesson, ladies and gentlemen, is that irresponsible policies have a cost, especially for the most vulnerable. Only six months ago the amount of the Greek programme would have been substantially lower and its conditionality much less stringent. The policies of the Greek Government have had a very negative impact. According to some study services, they could have detracted at least 5 points from GDP. On the other hand, both the Greek crisis and the one suffered by the euro area in recent years have highlighted the shortcomings in the architecture of economic and monetary union. Since then, important efforts have been made to improve this framework, such as the creation of rescue funds, the banking union and the improvement of mechanisms for economic cooperation and supervision. However, as we all know, there is still work to get a real government in the euro area. There is a need to further strengthen the coordination of economic policies with mechanisms to identify and correct competitiveness gaps and we need to move towards fiscal union and ultimately towards greater political union. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that being part of monetary union brings important benefits, but also requires responsibilities. Respect for the rules that we have given each other undoubtedly represents the main guarantee of success of this historic project. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. The parliamentary groups from age to age will then intervene. The Socialist Group will begin with Mr Moscoso del Prado.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u4	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for your extensive explanation, and also for the convening of this plenary, a plenary called to debate on the third Greek rescue, a debate that did not take place when the rescued were us, in 2012, because you did not want to convene that plenary, and, it should be remembered, a rescue precipitated by the then negligent management of Bankia and the panic that the government - this government - generated in its first months of government. That is why we welcome what you convey in your communication calling for this plenary: the will for transparency, dialogue, solidarity with European values, commitment to the citizens, of course objectives that we have always shared. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has explained, it has taken nine months of lengthy negotiations since December to complete this agreement with Greece; an agreement that went through its worst time at the end of June when the second rescue was not renewed and when the referendum of 5 July was called. All this has been resolved at the meeting of the Eurogroup on 12 July and has led to the MED loan of EUR 86 billion, of which Spain, as has already been said, will participate with 11.8%, that is to say, EUR 10.148 million to help Greece financially. Ladies and gentlemen, my group supports the financial agreement with Greece and also the Spanish participation in it, but - as I have already said - it is going to take much more than what this agreement envisages so that not only Greece but the whole of the euro area will grow again with vigour and sustainability; many more agreements and reforms, such as those that we will propose later on, will be needed as part of the resolution that we are going to present to this House this afternoon. It is an agreement, which we are discussing today, which certainly avoids the break-up of the euro and has many details, some questionable. We cannot agree with everything, Minister: with all the financial details, with all the conditionality and with all the timetable that is agreed. It is an agreement that we must support. It should be remembered that the Greek Parliament has already approved it, and if there had been no agreement Greece would be outside the euro. The agreement took place in this context, between the possible exit of Greece from the euro, the breakdown of the single currency and the agreement. We must remember what President Alexis Tsipras said on 12 July: the alternative was clearly worse. Minister, there is agreement, yes, but Greece, the euro and the eurozone are worse now than nine months ago. That is why, both in the agreement and in our speech, we believe that much needs to be said about the recovery of confidence: in the European institutions, between partners and also in the agreement. The situation in Greece is much worse than it was six months ago. The economy grew to 3% and this year will fall to 2% - we'll see, you said it - although the data we knew yesterday in the second quarter of 2015 were contradictory. Therefore, for an economy whose GDP has already fallen by 25%, we believe that this agreement should be complemented by a special humanitarian aid plan, which mitigates the social consequences of the crisis; a plan, which the Commission announced already in March, which should be EUR 2 billion, but which has not yet been launched. It should be remembered that the Greek unemployment rate exceeds 25%, one in five Greeks is in a situation of severe deprivation, there are 4 million Greeks in a situation of social exclusion and Greece, for example - we were discussing it recently - is the country of the European Union that the most refugees are hosting from the Middle East without any solidarity and support, especially from countries like ours. In Greece, of course, the banking system is worse and, as a result of the corralito and these six months of uncertainty, it will have to be reinforced with EUR 25 billion. Also - you have said it, and we are particularly concerned about this - the Greek public debt has become unsustainable. This is perhaps the main doubt and uncertainty of the agreement, the question of the sustainability of Greek debt. In this we maintain two different positions: on the one hand, that of the International Monetary Fund, which conditions its participation in the agreement to fully clarify the situation, because it does not want agreements that are unsustainable or half ink; and, on the other hand, the Community institutions themselves, which in their analysis and in the MOU speak of serious concern and sustainability only conditional on the implementation of profound reforms. In Greece mistakes go back to many governments, both Syriza and the previous ones, and of course there are also mistakes within the European framework. I believe that Tsipras was wrong in believing that he could act alone, without seeking the support of the European Social Democracy, that he was always there to give that support and that he is the only one who can guarantee the change that Europe needs. Greece has certainly made many mistakes, but also Europe, which has insisted so much on austerity; Community institutions which have not rectified from before on their path of austerity and, of course, since Greece joined the communities. It has been thirty-five years in Europe without far-reaching reforms so far. Therefore, to ensure growth, investment and job creation, much more is needed than this agreement. It is not only necessary, as we have always demanded, to end austerity - until now the end of austerity was the key to the political turn we demanded in Europe - but also deep political reforms. We need fiscal union, a European budget and, of course, agreements, which can no longer be the exclusive subject of the debate of the Europeanists but realities on the table. Ladies and gentlemen, on the MOU the minister has spread, and I do not have time to go into great detail, but there are issues that we would like to highlight. The path you set for a primary surplus is strict, rigorous. We'll see what happens. Pension reform is justified, but that is why we propose in our document that the overall model of pensions should be harmonised in Europe; it cannot be that some countries, with systems, impose harsher conditions than those themselves. With regard to the creation of an independent fund, we have serious doubts about its viability. It should be remembered that this fund must raise a sum equivalent to one quarter of Greek GDP in a short time, EUR 50 billion, and that so far only EUR 5 billion has been raised in declarations. Moreover, for this fund, productive investment would be its last priority. The situation in the eurozone is worse. The International Monetary Fund's report this summer again recalls, Minister, the major vulnerabilities of the European economy: low potential growth, 1.5%; it will not grow above 2% until after 2020. In Spain, the situation is even worse: a potential growth of 1%, very low growth expectations, expected unemployment always above 15% by 2020 and a total lack of measures to support productivity improvement, is seen as seen, and also the increase in fixed capital. That is why we demand to build on fiscal capacity where there are, in the countries of the north, which have healthy accounts, and, of course, to reduce excessive balance-of-payments surpluses. Minister, yesterday we knew that Spain is again in deficit by balance of payments - the first half of 2015 has been tremendous -. I know that the June data you have published today are different from Europeans, but that is the case, as we discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. The Juncker Plan must be strengthened, the monetary momentum of the ECB must be maintained and, as I said earlier, support measures that improve productivity, so that we do not distance ourselves from countries like the United States. All this is known by the markets, so the risk premium increases. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is also worse; Greece, the eurozone and Europe. Undoubtedly, the negotiation was very tough. The things that were said in the Eurogroup and in the European Council have left wounds that will take a long time to heal. The effect of Mr Schäuble's proposal, German Finance Minister, to allow a temporary exit from Greece from the euro, was unacceptable. Nor was it reasonable how it was negotiated. It cannot be negotiated on the basis of approaches between creditors and debtors or between north and south. Europe is about putting the common thing into practice and not highlighting the differences. Again, austerity policy has been imposed. A lost year when priorities are different. In Athens many made impossible promises, in Brussels there were invigilating mistakes and many European capitals, like ours, did nothing to change the course of events. The break-up of the euro, the main objective, was avoided, but we still do not have a medium- and long-term project. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we wonder what their role has been, what this Government has done, with whom or with whom they have positioned themselves. We don't know, and we're afraid there was nothing. There has been a total absence of ideas from the People's Party. His scant contribution to the report of the five presidents demonstrates his unwillingness to influence anything that could disorient or disturb Mrs Merkel. You have not even consulted among yourselves the report of the five presidents, nor has the role you have sent to Brussels ever been presented in Parliament. In the midst of this process, without the Government's plan and without ideas, you have embarked on the adventure of the Presidency of the Eurogroup - I repeat, without any plan - showing that you have not contributed, nothing or very little, to the debate on the European position and that you did not know how to improve the functioning of Europe; nor did you know how to debate on European construction or knowledge about Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we have never obstructed or opposed the appointment of Mr De Guindos, we have said it many times and I have repeated it in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on successive occasions. It would have been very good if you had chaired the Eurogroup, although the debate was different. The debate was with which project and how to change the policies of the Eurogroup, and you did not. You can't fight for a candidacy without a project. You believed that the Presidency of the Eurogroup could be obtained as an award for due obedience; your only basis was the return of loyalty and favors to governments in central Europe. You mistakenly believed that the president of the Eurogroup could be appointed as this government appoints some ambassadors, and that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. Now what? We already have the agreement, but Europe must be worth it, and there is nothing agreed to pick up the change that Europe really needs. Therefore, our motion for a resolution includes an ambitious proposal for reform of the Agency, of the Union and of the euro; proposals that can be achieved at first using the current legislative framework, but in the medium term they will require reform of the Treaties of the European Union. We propose, among other things, that we will see later, for example, to build fiscal union by creating a real budget for the euro area that will be able to finance Union policies, countercyclical policies and, of course, European public goods and boost growth, as well as to carry out countercyclical economic policy interventions when necessary. It is the opposite of what has happened so far in the euro crisis and, of course, of what has been done with Greece. We propose harmonising Member States' taxation in societies by harmonising the tax base and tax rates and, of course, simplifying fiscal governance and the European Semester, boosting growth and competitiveness and strengthening all instruments of macroeconomic solidarity - as I said earlier - for countries with fiscal and foreign policy margins, as well as creating a genuine economic and social union that harmonises the functioning of labour markets, creating a European minimum wage, completing national wages by means of a European supplement calculated on the basis of the median wage, as well as creating a complement to national unemployment subsidies and, of course, making progress on issues related to Europe's democratic legitimacy. Minister, the Spanish economy is also going through complicated times. You make a reading and an interpretation of the overly accounting agreement, calculating what we have contributed and what we have failed to contribute. These figures could be compared with another volume of important data. For example, in this legislature, Spain's public debt has increased by EUR 30 billion. The Reserve Fund has been reduced by €46 billion. We have obtained a rescue from Europe of 40 billion euros that we will never recover and that we will have to return to Europe. Also, for example, we have endorsed EUR 50 billion from the Sareb and this year we have given the highest income EUR 1.5 billion. I say this to put into context his figures on the Spanish contribution to the rescue of Greece. It should be remembered that if we add the contributions of Spain to Greece, apart from those of Ireland and Portugal and that of Cyprus - which you have not mentioned - we remain more or less as we were. That is Europe, that is solidarity and there would never have been this agreement or this stabilisation without the existence of mechanisms that need to be improved. So far we were demanding a change in economic policy, but that is no longer enough to guarantee medium-term growth or, of course, the preservation of the European model. We need another Europe with different institutions. It should be remembered that in Europe this debate has been led by leaders such as French President François Hollande, Italian President Mateo Renzi, and you, Mr Rajoy - we are very sorry - have not highlighted this issue; in others yes, but in this certainly not. We do not know what Spain's approach was in the debate on European reform. Of course, in September the Socialist parties, the Social Democratic parties, we are going to take this witness and we are going to lead this change because, if not, when a crisis like that of Greece comes back, the euro will break or we will not be able to achieve a fourth rescue under those conditions. The euro, ladies and gentlemen, is such a powerful reality that it cannot live much longer without democracy, and we must all change it. This course, which we propose in our resolution, is the best for Spain, for Europe and for all. I honestly think we should all go into it together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Moscoso del Prado. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió has, first of all, the word of Mr Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as you can easily imagine, the Group of Democratic Convergence agrees with this third programme of financial assistance and with the participation of the Spanish State in it. Therefore, the meaning of our vote is going to go this way. Minister, there has been an agreement for us that brings together a number of circumstances that make it particularly valuable. First of all, it is a difficult, complex agreement. The complexity of an agreement always has a measure that is the level of relative disagreement or tension between the signatory parties, not between them but within each other. You know perfectly well the disagreements that in order to reach this agreement you have had to overcome the Greek government itself - the Greek government party - and the important disagreements that have also occurred within the European Union, especially within one of the most important European nations. It is therefore an agreement which seems particularly positive to us because of its complexity. It is an agreement that, like the big agreements, does not end when it is signed. It can be signed this week from the ratifications of each other; however, the agreement must be carried out, implemented and we must all be vigilant to protect and comply with it. In fact, if I may, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an agreement in line with the Europeanist spirit. Sixty-five years ago Robert Schuman, on 9 May 1950, said that so famous, which has been repeated so many times, that Europe is not going to be made at once; it is not a construction of a whole but through concrete achievements, creating solidarity in fact. Sixty-five years and this sentence, this desire, this objective of Schuman remains in force and perhaps all of us who have participated in this agreement are building this Europe a little further. Minister, we have always believed that Europe is built by not presenting it as that Europe which has to subsidize us, that it helps and that when we are lost it has to get us out of the jam. No, no, Europe must build it among all, especially when circumstances are most difficult. This is what is being done right now, so we want to give special value to this agreement. Minister, we are concerned, as are many of the political forces present in this House, about the growing anti-Europeanism of the extreme right and the extreme left - sometimes they are touched - as well as because we want to interpret this agreement in order to give lessons and not to learn. From this point of view, this parliamentary debate is of great value to us and we would like to make some contributions. Firstly, with regard to the content of the agreement, it seems to us that we have managed to keep pace with the rhythms in an appropriate and sensible way. The deadline seems prudent - three years -, payments accompanied by the pace of obligations also seems something that anyone who wants to build an agreement has to do. From this point of view, this agreement can be quite positive. However, Minister, for us there are some aspects that even beyond what is written in the agreement we should take into account. For this we can never forget the objectives. In order to get out of this stumbling block in which Greece is located, we believe that there are two objectives that we cannot abandon. To one of them you have made reference, the promotion of the productive economy. Without fostering a productive economy, we do nothing. Without Greece being able to produce and thus distribute and pay what it owes nothing is possible. Therefore, Minister, obsession with the productive economy. This has a double reading, which is also the obsession with the stimulus plan. We must be able to put value perfectly and at every moment. all incentives to the Greek productive economy. The other great objective for us, Minister, is the obsession with social justice. A significant part of the Greek population may be in a bad way, so that all the mechanisms available to the European institutions must also be put into use so that those who can be harmed by the inevitable negative effects of this plan can be compensated in some way. Obsession, therefore, for the productive economy and obsession with social justice; in this sense, on our part - let me say it, Minister - aversion to insensitivity and insolidity, as well as to the guilt of the peoples. They have no fault; those we can blame are sometimes the rulers. Therefore, one of the lessons to be learned right now is that - I repeat - social justice must be present in all the decisions that we are taking. Minister, to us this Europe, which has been able to reach this agreement, which has not wanted to abandon the Greek citizens, despite the contradictions, hesitations, mistakes and incapacity of its rulers, this Europe - I repeat - we like; the reason is that this is an inclusive project, more designed to protect than to expel. The departure of Greece from the euro was in a way an expulsion, a step backwards. We wouldn't have liked it. We like this inclusive Europe. Minister, we take good note - we would like you all to do so too - that when the European institutions are cast as a kind of vigilante angel who punishes his prodigal children to wander in the outer space it is not this Europe. Europe is all that counts, and it has shown this despite the severity of this crisis. We, the people of Convergence, like this Europe and we are convinced that the Catalan nation - Europeanist before no one and more than anyone - is now more protected than ever by the institutions of the Union. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years ago Jacques Delors received a prestigious prize, the Catalan International Prize. Jacques Delors said something textually that I think we have to remember today: Europe needs a soul, no one falls in love with a market. I believe that this request by Jacques Delors from twenty years ago is absolutely necessary. Greece is experiencing one of the European crises - not only European but Mediterranean - with more intensity than anyone else. Therefore, apart from resolving all the financing mechanisms in Greece, Europe also has this outstanding subject. Today we can demonstrate, ladies and gentlemen, that despite all the temptations, everything that has happened, the European soul has triumphed in this crisis, at least in some way. I would like to think, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that this European soul, which, as Robert Schuman said, is built with solidarity, will also be able to be rebuilt in times of as much difficulty as it is today. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. For the same group, from Convergence i d'Unió, Mr Sánchez i Llibre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Union is going to vote in favour, without complexes, of Spain's contribution to the third rescue to Greece, its aid programme. He's going to do it basically for the following reasons. Firstly, because this third rescue is still a great example of European solidarity. On the basis that my political formation, Unité Democrática, has been a party with a great European vocation since 1950, we are going to vote in favour of this action. Secondly, the Greek Parliament voted for the euro last Thursday and decided not to return to the drachma. It should be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, that President Tsipras at that sitting last Thursday said a phrase that we attach great importance to. He said: I had to choose between suicide or stay alive. Well, from this perspective we understand that staying alive is to stay in Europe and in the euro; in short, to strengthen the European Union. For these reasons, we believe that it is worth voting in favour. There are other political-economic connotations which also favour positive voting in this plenary session. The Government of Tsipras and the Greek Parliament have committed themselves to a realistic economic programme: major and crucial structural reforms aimed at increasing investment, economic growth and job creation. It represents a certain respite for the economy of Greece and the European Union, as it seeks to restructure the Greek financial system. Another issue we welcome is that Greek savers are not going to lose a euro of their deposits. In short, they will achieve with this more realistic economic programme a considerable increase in investment, an increase in GDP, which will logically allow them to increase consumption and to secure in the medium and long term the creation of jobs. Finally, after these last few years, given today's green light to this third rescue, Greece could in the medium term be a competitive economy. The Democratic Union is convinced that this rescue will provide security and that Greece will have a future in the euro Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue is going to raise a safety net so that those who are always announcing the end of the idea of Europe will fail in their attempt. This is a first approach: that they have failed and that Europe is broken. Well, it doesn't break. We continue to maintain Europeanist approaches and implement that Greece has not had to leave the euro. All aspects that do not provoke the applause of the French extreme right, British Euroscepticism and anti-Europeanism of the extreme left or of some not-so-extreme left parties are good news, and it welcomes it Union from its perspective. Similarly, all those extremist forces, or not so extremist, who applauded Tsipras the day after the referendum, today do not applaud the rescue of the Greek people, which, ladies and gentlemen, means that we are on the right track. In any case - our spokesman, Mr Duran i Lleida, also said in the last speech at the plenary session on the last European summit - we must be aware that there are fibres of the European body which in these successive rescues from Greece have been broken or have finally been damaged and must be recovered again. To do this, we believe that the Greeks must do their duties very well and that the European Union should strengthen Greece and all those economic and social policies that can give a more important and solvent body to the European Union; this is a perspective that we always define as more Europe. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to implement all those economic, political and social mechanisms that are in the direction of strengthening and creating a more Europe-wide approach. What do we mean by more Europe? To be brief, and not to go beyond the time given to me by the Presidency, we could say that since the Union we believe that more Europe - Mr Moscoso explained perfectly in his speech - are all those approaches that are in the direction of giving more mechanisms, more benefits, more powers to the European Union; this is what we consider to be betting for more Europe. We therefore believe that the Spanish Government would have to take note of these initiatives in order to be able to defend them within the European Commission and within the Eurogroup. There are some aspects that we consider to be weak and that shape the economic and financial situation of Greek policy. It is true that all these issues must be based on the confidence that the mechanisms implemented through the motions that we are going to adopt today by most parliamentary groups are in the direction of generating more economic activity, generating more investment in employment, but this depends on trust, and today unfortunately the Greek policy environment is not in a climate of confidence. We will see how Mr Tsipras resolves all those aspects related to a future motion of confidence that will have to be raised in the coming days. Future elections in Greece continue to be a negative aspect of this confidence. Of course, we want Greece to regain this confidence so that it can get out of this jam and finally more measures can be implemented to strengthen the European Union, to strengthen this more Europe that we have also proposed since the Union so that we can finally give this security a stronger and more solvent euro in the coming years. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Garzón has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are debating here a fundamental agreement for the future of the Greek economy, for the future of the Greek people, but in our view also for the future of Spain and of the citizens we live in this country and in this state. Because we understand that this agreement must be seen from two points of view: from the point of view of technical efficiency and from the point of view of political philosophy, that is, the foundations and how this affects the history of the European Union. Firstly, and because we have little time, the truth is that this agreement, in our view, is absolutely detrimental to the Greek economy, to the Greek people, but also to the European Union, because you observe - I am sure that you have done so, like the rest of the Members - that after six years of implementing austerity policies the Greek economy has not improved until the arrival of the Syriza Government, and that you have not done so after that because the same policies have continued to be applied. The International Monetary Fund's predictions promoting such policies have failed year after year since 2009. In the end we have a third agreement called curiously rescue, although we should ask for rescue to whom. Third agreement means that there have been two already and both have failed. I think it means thinking about why a third agreement of the same nature as the previous two, which is already recognised as having failed, is approved. If for six years a recipe has been applied that has proved not to be kind or beneficial to the economy, but rather poison, why continue to apply the same policies that logically lead to the same results? These austerity policies inspired by neoliberalism stifle domestic demand and impede the ability to recover the economy, and so they will continue to fail. But we're going down to see the deal that's been signed. Mr De Guindos, we have an agreement that is expected to receive EUR 80 billion, which is a very considerable amount. What happens is that when we look at where they come from, we find that up to EUR 50 billion come from what has been called the privatization fund, that is, what is going to be the dismantling of the Greeks' assets. The Greeks will have to be forced to divest themselves of their public enterprises, those that remain after six years applying these policies, and even of something as symbolic as their islands are: privatize their islands in order to obtain a benefit with which they can return or pay this ransom. Up to EUR 50 billion come from this circumstance, the dismantling of the state, which is to put a market to sell at a price of balance what is public - the philosophy of Milton Friedman -. In short, something that corresponds to a counterparty that will be the one buying, that is probably the investment funds, that are waiting to see where they will be able to find at the asset balance price that logically should not be sold for that price so low: only 12.5 billion euros will be allocated to economic investment, to stimulus plans, so that we understand each other. That is, simply 15% of the total rescue is going to be allocated to trying to generate employment, to try to recover the economy. It seems a very small figure in order to be able to rescue an economy that has lost up to 25% of gross domestic product in recent years - losing 25% of gross domestic product is not a mere statistical question; this had not happened in any other country in times of peace -, 25% of gross domestic product in recent years that is going to try to recover simply with a rescue where only 12.5 billion euros are to stimulate economic growth. In the end, we have often insisted on these debates in this House, as regards the current and recent circumstances, in which we have to choose between two options: the option of Greece recovering its economy or the option of humiliating it in order to continue paying its debts in previous years. It is a very similar circumstance to that of 1919 in the Versailles Pact, which we have already commented on, because if you choose the option of humiliating Greece and forcing it to pay up to the last drop of blood of financial interests, your economy will not recover, and as your economy will not recover, you will not recover your people who continue to struggle to survive on the streets and will choose other positions. Here is the very clear risk of the possible growth of fascism, which is already a reality present in the case of Golden Dawn. If you take the path of humiliating Greece, you are actually signing the principle of the end of the European Union, as is postulated in the theoretical treaties. If, on the contrary, we had opted for economic recovery, stimulus plans, debt relief so that it did not weigh so much on the economy and on the recovery processes, we would be talking about other things and we would be talking about the support of our parliamentary group. However, the only thing that this agreement is going to do is to have a fourth rescue agreement, which we hope will not be of the same nature as this one. Because in the end, if there is something positive for some economic subjects they are the creditors who during this time have seen how they have been generated a board for the benefit of their own interests. Minister, in 2009, you know, all the creditors of the Greek public debt were private entities. They were banks, mainly German and French, which had over EUR 180 billion invested in Greek public debt. It is clear that they were risky loans. We saw, then, how it could not be returned. However, at this time, the European Central Bank, European policies have been aimed at transferring the risk and losses from the private to the public, because at this very moment, since 2009, where all the debt was owed by private financial institutions, the vast majority of the risks are from public entities, including the States themselves. In the end, we have seen a big scam from 2009 to the present, where the only thing that has happened in positive has been that some subjects, the French and German banks especially at the head of the platoon, have seen how they could be released from their risks and losses for the benefit - for losses and risks - of public entities. That's the only thing that's happened and the only thing that's going to happen with this ransom. Minister, the International Monetary Fund has not yet decided whether to participate in this agreement; it believes that debt restructuring is necessary. Our group also believes, and we have been defending it in this Congress for several years, that a European debt agreement is needed to alleviate these processes, a debt that cannot be paid either in technical or moral terms. That is, in technical terms it is impossible to be able to pay this debt given the economic situation and in moral terms it is not due because those who will have to pay that debt are the citizens on foot, the simple people, the ordinary people who have had nothing to do with the increase and waste of previous governments being, by the way, one of them New Democracy, partner and counterpart of the People's Party that supports the government of this country. You know, Minister, there's going to be a lift. Sooner or later there will be a debt restructuring; in fact, it will not be the first, there have already been others. Why are you waiting so long for that take? Why are you waiting so long to take the brunt off an economy that needs to be able to breathe, take oxygen to get ahead, but not because of a statistical issue, but because it affects people on the street? That is why our group in our resolution is going to urge this Government to fight for a new agreement including debt restructuring. There are still brief minutes left, Mr De Guindos, but we cannot go without remembering the political aspect of the issue, the aspect that has essentially to do with the future of the European Union. You cannot build a political community against the people who are part of that political community, and that is why the response of European international leaders to the outcome of the Greek referendum was absolutely abhorrent. It cannot be built against people; however, this European Union has been designed from the beginning with a perverse design in political and economic terms. Politicians because it has been an oligarchic, elitist design, or do we not remember the referendum on the failed European Constitution, that referendum which in France and the Netherlands came out as no and which was approved by the national parliaments, thus disdaining the citizens of those countries? That is, a European elite, a European oligarchy that builds an institutional design by disdaining people on the street. Then it happened in Ireland; then the content itself was transferred to the Treaty of Lisbon and now we have a new example with the Greek referendum, a referendum where the people of Greece clearly said that they did not want any more austerity policies. Not that I didn't want the euro, not that I didn't want the European Union. What I didn't want was to continue suffering from the same poisonous prescriptions over the past six years. But it is also a European design, the design of this Union, which is not good for the economy of any of the countries, but it is good for some political and economic subjects of some of those countries. Because it is a European Union that creates two Europes, it creates a centre and a periphery; because the real problems of the European Union have to do with the productive structure, they have to do with that Germany is a developed country, with a productive structure of high added value, while Spain, Greece and Portugal are relatively underdeveloped countries and do not have those capacities. Well, that being the core of the problem, this agreement, which is supposed to seek to respond to these problems, makes no mention of the necessary productive restructuring within the framework of the European Union. Depleting the Greek economy, such as impoverishing the Spanish economy, with wage moderation, with structural reforms designed to continue feeding real estate bubbles, financial bubbles, will only serve to make things worse; making things worse means making people's lives worse, in Greece, in Spain, in Portugal. That is why this agreement - we insist on what we said at the beginning - is negative; it is negative for the citizens of Greece; it is negative for the European political project, as we conceived it, and it is negative for the citizens of Spain. That is why we believe that proper reflection should be given. Mr De Guindos, you have taken the ghost of communism to walk in your intervention, but the truth is that this crisis is the responsibility of an economic model that is the capitalist. This crisis is a responsibility and is framed in a concrete design of neoliberal policies within the framework of a very determined European Union. I believe that we must think appropriately, with these characteristics, to lead and that this Government should build, representing the Spanish people and thus representing the peoples of southern Europe, a new agreement for Greece; a new agreement for southern Europe; a new agreement which consists of alleviating debts, restructuring those debts which cannot be paid and, of course, completely and completely reformulating the political project of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Within the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rajoy, you've commissioned Mr. De Guindos today! The truth is that this Congress, which has refused to discuss the different bailouts of the Spanish banks, has failed today to discuss the bailout of Greece. You should explain why. In any case, in addition to my colleague Garzón's intervention, I would like to take this opportunity to place the debate that I believe this Congress should do once and for all, which is the debate on the loss of sovereignty of societies and their democratic institutions in relation to the power of the financial markets. The Greek memorandum, as before Spanish, are episodes of a battle in which the sovereignty of societies is at stake. This sovereignty, by the way, with which the PP always fills its mouth so much and which in important moments so little defends. The crisis is being used to impose policies that citizens have not voted for and that they reject. I would like to recall that this happened in May 2010, when the Zapatero government implemented the labour reform required by the troika; it happened again in August 2011, when the European Central Bank demanded by letter to Zapatero social cuts under the threat of blackmail, a blackmail very similar to what it has now done to Greece, or with the reform of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, agreed by the Socialist Party and the People's Party without subjecting it to a referendum of the citizens. And also with the memorandum signed by Rajoy in July 2012 with more labour deregulation, lower wages, reduced unemployment coverage, a fall in social protection and privatization of public services. All these episodes should be present today in this debate because they have in common with the reality of Greece that these are episodes of submission of democratic institutions to the dictates of the markets. And it is false, as explained, that this loss of sovereignty is due to the indebtedness of States. Not at least, and you know it, Mr. De Guindos, in the Spanish case. When the crisis begins, Spain has a budget surplus and a debt below 35% of GDP. The Spanish debt has not been used to rescue citizens but to rescue banks and cash at no cost to the financial sector, neither Spanish nor international, a financial sector that has then imposed anti-social policies in exchange for financing its own bank bailout. This is the debate that must be held today in Europe and which, by the way, has in the case of Spain, and specifically in Catalonia, some significant elements, because the same People's Party which repeatedly denies the sovereignty and the right to decide Catalonia, on behalf of that same sovereignty has no problem in trampling sovereignty into capital markets, and although it may seem that they do not share that attitude, in practice the Spanish Government and the Catalan Government have voted two of the most obvious expressions of this loss of sovereignty: the 2012 labour reform and the Budget Stability Act, which allowed Mr Montoro to be de facto the Councillor of Economy and Finance of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and also, for example, at this time, defend the Treaty on Free Trade and Investment, which is the maximum expression of this transfer of sovereignty from the markets. I'm done. It may seem curious, but in a debate like this we are discussing sovereignty in the 21st century and we are discussing sovereignty to exercise it on behalf of the citizens, and here, unfortunately, let me tell you as a Catalan MP, Rajoy and Mas defend the same concept of what they understand by sovereignty. Rajoy wants to remain the exclusive partner of the economic interests of the financial markets; that is limited and never countered. And, meanwhile, Mr. Mas wants to be the masover who manages those interests in Catalonia. In short: you belong together, masovers others, never question! the rules of the game or the policies they impose. That is why we think that this is the debate that we should do once and for all in this country, and we will at least try to take advantage of the elections on 27 September. Because, ultimately, what is at stake is how citizens regain sovereignty in the twenty-first century, but true sovereignty, not the sovereignty of the party, not the sovereignty of the Masover. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Mr De Guindos, I too thank you on behalf of my group for your intervention, although I would like to start by raising the issue from another perspective. Of course, I will come back to the agreement, but I would like to raise the issue just as our group would have liked this debate to have been raised or to have been raised, which is not solely our responsibility, but how this issue is being raised in the whole of Spanish society; I do not dare to make the same statement with regard to Europeans as a whole, but in Spain. Please note that we are in a debate that has seemed so far, and mainly with your intervention, Minister - but also with the debates that have preceded it in the media in general, in the discussions, in what the citizens tell you when they raise this issue - a debate that is not even economic, an economic debate. I think this is the real problem. This is neither an economic debate nor a debate on Greece. It is a political debate and it is a debate on Europe: on the political Europe that we have been building, that we want to build and that some of us still aspire to and dream of building. If the question arises as I have heard from some speakers, not only from the minister, in economic, economic, and accounting terms, I believe that we will not deal well with the problem and I believe that that is where the fundamental question lies. It is not a question of quantifying our solidarity with Greece; it is not the Greek problem, it is the European problem which has economic consequences and which has them directly in Greece, it is a political problem for Europe. Please note that when we talk about solidarity with and when I listen to people who wonder what we could do with these 35 billion of our solidarity - you, Minister, were very insistent on that, in which we have been very supportive - I remember those debates, fortunately from the past, when the Spaniards were going to the European institutions to ask for help to end terrorism and we were trying to explain that terrorism was not a problem of Spain, that it was a problem of European democracy, that Spain had a drama, lived a drama, but that the problem was of Europe, it was European and of the whole of the European institutions. Well, with this from Greece - let me say so, colloquially - the same happens: this is happening in Greece, this third rescue that we are going to vote on today - our group is going to support it without any kind of problem or negative reminiscence - it has not happened without more, it has happened because political union has failed, because there is no European political union that gives a political answer to a political problem. It is true that there has been a crisis of the euro, the first major crisis of the euro, but it is a crisis of consequences, character and political background. I'll explain. The agreement of 14 August, probably, Minister, is the best possible one, which we could take at this time in the circumstances, but it persists in repeating errors of the two previous agreements, to which you have referred and explained, because it is an agreement that is based exactly on the same diagnosis, in the same way as facing the problem. When the first programme you were talking about was implemented, that of 2010, Greece's debt was already excessive and, therefore, while it is true that Greece could not go out on its own and therefore Europe - let me say it in that way - helped it, it is also true that the austerity imposed was not the only way out; I will say more, as we have already said from this rostrum, it was not only the only one but, as has been shown, it was not the best way out. You said in your speech that it was very generous, that everything went very well, for less bad that it went well because we went from defeat to defeat - perhaps until the final victory -!: the first failed, the second failed and with respect to this third, which has been done the same way, let's see what happens to him. The new agreement, as I say, repeats diagnosis and prescription and I fear that the consequences will also be repeated. Once again the mantra of the non-restructuring of the debt is applied, yes to the fiscal contraction, which so good, in quotes, has given us results. Moreover, quite perversely - I believe that a punishment remedy has been applied to Greece - it insists that the programme has failed because of Greece. The Greeks, the successive Greek governments and not only the last, have been responsible, but not only have the Greek governments been responsible for what has happened. I have no doubt that they have responsibility, but I do not have it either that a plan that cannot function simply does not work and neither the first plan nor the second and I fear that neither the third could work - then I will explain why - and that is why they have not worked. It has been recalled that the loans given to Greece after the first two programmes amount to approximately 125 % of Greek GDP and seems very generous, indeed, but, Minister, you know it well, only 11 % of all that money has been spent on financing the services and investments of the Greek Government, only 11 % of all that money has come to the Greek citizens and the majority, the rest, 89 %, has been spent on rescuing international banks and investors, international creditors; that is, as in Spain: banks have been rescued but not rescued citizens. That said colloquially, it would have been better to give money directly to banks and foreign creditors - but, of course, that would have been very embarrassing, very difficult to explain - because the Greeks would have received exactly the same amount, 11%, an absolutely ridiculous amount. Now what? In this one we are not that I want to turn negative nor does my group want to turn negative either, minister, and I hope we are wrong in what I am saying, I hope we are wrong. I do not want to be negative, but, as we have seen, it is to be feared that the conditions required of Greece will not be met either, simply because they are impossible to meet. Thus, it is not impossible for the programme to be reviewed, for it to be concluded that Greece has not fulfilled its commitments and for financial aid to be suspended. Next would be a new episode of Grexit, probably the definitive one. In the meantime, Greek citizens will suffer even more: any state warning of welfare will disappear, public services will be dismantled and thus any opportunity for social protection. As I said, the agreement leaves Greece within the euro, but I fear that the Greek citizens will be left out of Europe. It seemed as if Greece's exit from the euro had already been written on the agenda. You are going to tell me, Minister, that no, but on the contrary, that everyone has been committed to ensuring that Greece does not leave, but if we look at some things it seems that this agenda was already written and calculated the cost. In fact, this possibility appears in the recent report of the German Council of Economic Experts, in which it is proposed that a country - I read textually - which does not cooperate continuously may remain outside the euro. Minister, what exactly does it mean not to cooperate? Does not meeting conditions that cannot be met mean not cooperating? Because there are some conditions that cannot be met. In fact there are some conditions that do not meet any Union country of the memorandum that we are asking Greece to comply with - I will talk about that later -. So if there are conditions that cannot be met, but the German experts say that if they are not met repeatedly or if they fail to do so, what does this mean? What is already written about Greece's exit from the euro, and therefore the exit from the European Union? The fact that the German Council of Economic Experts considers it certain that a country in the euro area will be expelled is, in our view, a great irresponsibility. Firstly, Greece cannot bear any more doubts and uncertainties, and neither can Europe. Secondly, and you know it well, leaving any country, regardless of its size, would leave the euro area in the worst of situations. On the one hand, we no longer have the essential mechanisms for stabilising the economy, independent monetary policy, a flexible exchange rate, but we would also not have the benefits of a monetary union consisting of the exchange rate stability and monetary discipline it provides when monetary agreements are credible - and the credible word in this case is important -. Precisely the departure of a country, even a small country, would question the credibility of the system as a whole. In my group's view, this crisis, as I said before, the most important one we have had as a monetary zone, is about to liquidate, if it has not already done so, the engine of European integration, which is nothing more than trust between states. Recapitulating: Greece's problems have not been treated as they are, political problems which call into question the will to turn the European Union into a real political union with the future. In other words, Minister, so that we can understand each other among Spaniards: in the end, what has happened in Europe is again a clash between nationalisms; in this case between state nationalisms, but between nationalisms, that which we have so many times talked about in the field of Spain. When the Government of Spain renounces to be the Government of Spain and confines itself to being the coordinator of seventeen autonomous communities, nationalist impulses triumph, because the State renounces to behave as a State. In Europe the nationalist impulses of the respective governments of the respective countries triumph because the State, the European nation, does not exist. That is very bad for everyone, and in particular for people who need the presence of the State most. Before I took the floor, someone spoke in this rostrum of sovereignty. I want to talk about sovereignty too. Our group demands sovereignty, European sovereignty. Sovereignty is not possible in individual terms, which is the freedom and citizenship of each of the Europeans, if there is no European sovereignty, if there is no political union and an entity with the capacity to make political decisions. We have said this many times: it is about giving up powers to win in competition, so that there is the European power in political terms. The euro cannot appear as a prison or as a straitjacket for all of us. States renounce their monetary sovereignty and the advantages of devaluation, of which I spoke before, and in return do not receive compensation for forced solidarity, which is called solidarity in a shared sovereignty, such as that of federal states. This is about shared sovereignty, like that in the federal states, and not that of: I'm going to be supportive with you and I'm going to help you, but it's our problem and we understand it as our problem. Nothing has been done to correct the defects in the design of the euro, as a common currency for countries starting from very different situations, as we all know. Greece is blamed for its bad economic governance, which of course has a huge and old responsibility, not only the last government, not only the referendum, not only what the current government is doing; successive governments have also had responsibility. But nothing serious has been done at European level to correct the bad European economic policy, which is responsible for the failure of previous bailouts, as I have already said. Minister, a country like Greece - and you know it - has a GDP of 1.5 that of Madrid, that is to say, the GDP of the Community of Madrid more medium; is that what we are saving? Does an entire economic union have so many difficulties in getting such a small economy out of the crisis, which is half as much as the economy of one of our autonomous communities? Does this not mean that we have a problem, in political terms, with the design of Europe, not only with the design of fiscal policy and economic policy, but also with the design of Europe, with the design of politics? I think it's enough to say that. I ended, ladies and gentlemen, as I began. We must be aware that the problem is twofold; that it is a political problem; that a wrong fiscal and economic policy has led us to the situation in which we are, and that the resignation of Europe, of the European institutions, from taking advantage of the euro crisis to make progress towards greater political integration of the Union, capable of considering Greece as a part of the Union in need of aid, and not only as a non-compliant and backward trading partner, is what has brought us here. All Spaniards would have to remember. Do you remember when the Cohesion Fund was launched at European level? The Cohesion Fund was launched in Europe because our Government - the Spanish Government at the time - convinced the European partners that Europe's cohesion was very good for Germany, very good for the rich countries; that it was not only a gesture of solidarity with the countries of the South, but that it was very good for Europe's progress; that cohesion was an advantage for all Europeans; in the short term it was an aid to the countries we had just entered, but politically an advantage for the most important countries, for the most important economies in Europe. For now we should take the opportunity to do so, to make a European speech and European proposals; to take advantage of the crisis to get out of the crisis renewed, reformed and grown in political terms, and not just with fiscal or economic policies. The memorandum of understanding, as has been said before - you said it above, but I will insist a little on it, because in our motion for a resolution we will also go there - imposes on Greece a series of reforms to boost its competitiveness; certain reforms, Minister, which other Member States - Spain and others - refuse to adopt internally, or which in fact require reforms at Community level to succeed, to be truly effective and to succeed in Greece and throughout Europe. There is a need for a renewed reformist momentum throughout the Union that generates these positive externalities for the whole, and a revision - as I said - of solidarity policies, of European policies.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u15	Mrs. Díez, you have to finish up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u16	I'm done. I will defend later, then, the proposals we want to make in this plenary. I confirm that our parliamentary group will support the rescue, will support the Spanish participation, and will do so from the perspective I have just explained, not because we believe that we need to help Greece, but because it is our problem. What is happening in Greece is happening in Europe. It's our problem. It is not our problem to be supportive, but to solve the problems that we Europeans have; and what is happening in Greece is the responsibility of all Europeans - including the Greeks, but also of all Europeans - and we therefore support the position of the Government, we support the third rescue, and we do not wonder how much it costs or what we could do with that money. We wonder how much it would cost us not to have a political union and an economic union in Europe. That is what we want us to ask ourselves and all citizens to ask ourselves; how much it would cost us if there was no Europe; how much it would cost us in democratic and political terms. That is why we will put forward a number of proposals, in addition to supporting the Government, so that the Government at European level, in the European institutions, strengthen the common European project and introduce and promote positive measures, promote the fight against tax fraud, promote some of the measures for the best government that we recommend to all and that is recommended in the memorandum to the Greeks, such as the inclusion of a second chance law in public credit or the implementation of a national strategy for a guaranteed minimum income.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u17	Mrs. Díez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u18	It's over, President. Those things that we ask the Greeks to do and that are voted negatively in this House must be done at the level of Europe as a whole and must be done in Spain as well. Thank you, President, for your generosity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Vasco PNV Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President, Minister for Economic Affairs, Minister for Health, we are here today at the plenary session of the House to implement a compromise or rather to give satisfaction - I would say - to the President of the Government, who just over a month ago, when he appeared to report on the European Council of 25 and 26 June, as well as on the pre-agreement with Greece of 12 July, he called us to ratify the agreement reached between the Greek Government, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the Stability Mechanism and the International Monetary Fund. Well, fortunately there has been agreement between the parties. In addition there has been before the famous day 20, which would have been more problematic, and we can say that if nothing turns - it seems not - the third rescue for Greece is underway. For some parliaments the ratification of the commitment made by the Greek Government, by the creditors and by the Greek Parliament is mandatory, but this is not the case with the Congress of Deputies; here it is not compulsory nor in our view it was necessary. I do not want to say that the Greek rescue is not important or should be discussed, we believe that we have already set our position and opinion on it when the President of the Government appeared, and today we have few more elements to be able to say anything about it. In our view, therefore, it responds more to an electoral act and to a public report by the People's Group - to which we have been subject for a while now - than to a real need to support the rescue of Greece, which, as we have seen, is and will fortunately be welcomed by the vast majority of this House. But once the debate has been started and we are in this House, our parliamentary group does want to set out its position on the delicate situation of the Greek economy, of Greek society and on the agreement reached to free Gracia of the necessary economic resources so that they can emerge from the hole in which they find themselves. I hope that this is the case and that this third rescue will finally solve the Greek problem, which is also our problem, a European problem. We therefore believe that the agreement is positive and we will support it. The Greeks themselves have accepted it despite the great and difficult counterparties that they demand for it, and it is therefore not up to us to put many buts on it. Greece remains in the euro and in the European Union and we hope that it will do so definitively. However, we must be aware that the road has not been and will not be easy. There are qualified voices, such as that of Berkeley's professor Bradford DeLong, who consider that Greece should have emerged from the euro in 2010, and that even doing so at the moment is more beneficial for Greece in the long term. What I want to say is that neither everything is done nor all those involved in the European project are working in the same direction to facilitate the success of such a complicated undertaking. As you know, Minister, former Minister Varufakis - who surely knows perfectly well the situation of the Greek economy - said a few days ago that the third rescue to Greece would not work. He also pointed out something that is also worrying, which the Greek and German finance ministers, Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Schäuble, also think. What we do not know very well is whether you think this too, Minister, because if, like Varufakis and the others, you consider that the third ransom will fail, you should tell us and propose not to support it. Asking citizens for money and sacrifices to do nothing would be irresponsible, because if the ransom fails, it's like throwing money away. A priori and with the current information our parliamentary group, the Basque Group, has no doubt: it is in favour of making the necessary effort, as we want Greece in the euro and a stronger and more European Europe. We have to try by all means. Let us hope that your Government does not use, Mr De Guindos, our parliamentary support to share the possible failure that might eventually occur. Last month, my group's spokesman spoke in this regard. It was critical of the role of the European institutions for the excessive guarantees, for the demands, for the measures, for all the reforms required of the Greeks and which they could frustrate with the agreement, with the Greek economy and with the euro. And he was equally critical with the Greek officials, whose attitude and behavior was often incomprehensible. Everyone - at least I have to admit that I did - was surprised by that famous referendum on 5 July, in which we did not know what was being asked or what they were going to do depending on the outcome. He won the no, and a week later the Greeks accepted harsher conditions than those they had theoretically rejected. That is so, with the support of the opposition to the new agreement and with the negative vote of many Syriza Members; a unfortunate mistake that is already past water. Since the Greek officials decided that it was better to take internal measures, even if they were tough - and we know how difficult it is to make sacrifices when you are in an extreme situation with high unemployment rates, with precariousness, poverty, etc. - since they decided to make efforts and stay within the European Union I have the feeling that things have been rolling better. Taking responsible positions, even if it is difficult to do so, is a reflection of greater maturity than with populist positions, whose final result is unpredictable and certainly undesirable. Negotiations between creditors and the new finance minister, Euclid Tsakalotos, have been conducted with discretion and seriousness, and the agreement has been sold only when it has been reached. Surely if the day-to-day work had been transmitted, everything would have been more difficult. If there had been statements in one direction or another, the road would surely have been hampered. We also recognize as positive some progress made by the troika, expanded by the MEDE. The reduction of the tax surplus by 11% of GDP over the next three years will certainly facilitate the budgetary effort that the Greeks must make anyway. This flexibility of fiscal conditions is positive, although it is foreseeable, Minister, that further flexibility will also be necessary in the future. Despite this and that it will be the creditors who will face up to part of the debt of the banks, ensuring that deposits of up to 100,000 euros will not be cut, the Greeks have accepted a memorandum of understanding whose implementation will require great efforts and sacrifices: to eliminate early retirements, to review the pension system, tax changes, to liberalize the energy sector, to modify the agricultural tax system and to create a fund to privatise public goods up to 50,000 million, among other measures, and it will not be easy at all. That is why the Greek officials, the European institutions and the International Monetary Fund must be asked for greater responsibility and commitment to this situation, but at the same time we must also demand the necessary flexibility for the Greek case to end well and not blow us all up, because in addition to the future of the Greeks, which is very important, we are playing the future of the European Union and we must be aware of it. We have spoken on many occasions in other debates - even today other speakers have referred to this - about the lack of institutionalisation, the lack of cohesion at European level, the lack of taking steps towards a more consistent political union, which faces more problems than Greece. I am not going to go into this issue, which is absolutely essential, but I would like to point out that it is important that we know the amount we have to make and the effort we have to make, so that we know that there are not only words behind this, but also considerable resources that come out of everyone's pocket, a considerable contribution that must be interpreted in terms of necessity, but also of solidarity. The third rescue reaches EUR 86 billion, as the Minister has pointed out. The citizens through the institutions we contribute or endorse in this case around 10 billion euros - I think it has been made up of 10,150 million euros - which together with the previous ones represent 34 billion euros, a very important figure. We will have to give them good employees if the problem is fixed with them and in order for this to be possible everyone, everyone, we have to put on our side. As I said before, not everything is achieved; the task is difficult, but we have a responsibility to try.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Joint Group there will be interventions from virtually all components, and this shift includes the replica shift. First of all, Mr Larreina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have come up to this rostrum with your usual conviction, defending theses which every time we hear them make us reaffirm the need to put forward an alternative. We are not going to support the process that has led to this rescue, and to say no to this process and this rescue, that is to say yes to solidarity with the citizens of Greece, to social Europe, to a Europe that we have to build among all of us differently, and to say no to the failure of ultra-liberal policies that are leading to increased poverty within the European Union, and in the case of Greece it is particularly significant what has happened. Other speakers have already referred to the failure of the policies that have taken place so far, but that failure is taking place throughout the European Union. You are very convinced of ultra-liberal policies that are denying the essence of the European Union. We are taking steps backwards in European construction, we are returning to a Europe of the pure market rather than a Europe of citizens, citizens and citizens. We are building - or rather destroying - a Europe which is increasingly the Europe of markets, and which is turning its back on citizens, because in the end the rescue you have proposed to Greece is not a rescue to Greek citizens. If we look at what part of that 85 billion is going to go to the real economy of Greece, to the citizens, it is a minimum part. Most of this rescue is to the French, German and also Spanish arms companies, which are behind a very important part of the Greek debt. In addition, we are rescuing the bank, a usury bank from Germany, France and other European Union states. We are also giving rescue to neoliberal policies - ultra-liberal, I would say - that have focused precisely many times their action on Greece itself, on those cement macro-projects, as was the whole Olympic disaster in Greece, that is to say, which is also behind an important part of that debt, and we are finally supporting a campaign that seems very dangerous to us, which is an ideological campaign. Right now, too, the right of Greek citizens to choose their own government, to choose their own policy, to choose their own ways of building their society is being questioned, because at the end of this whole process there has been a clear attempt to remove the Greek government, as it was done with the Italian Government and the Portuguese Government, to impose another ideological model of government, that is, to impose the ideological model of a conservative party that is at the basis of the Greek disaster, which is at the basis of the deception that has been made to the European Union since the beginning with the Greek data, which is at the basis of that Greek economic disaster that has favoured very few and has turned its back on the majority of Greek citizens. We're going to say no to this ransom. We also say this from the conviction that we have the obligation and the right to advocate a different European model, to advocate the need to end this kind of new economic imperialism that is being imposed from Germany, from the economic sectors fundamentally, and that is turning its back on the construction of a Europe of citizenship, a Europe of peoples, a more cohesive Europe. Because, I insist, this agreement that you have brought us here is against the people, it is against the people on foot and it is in favour of this speculative economy, which violates the dignity of the people and that everything subjects them to those great economic figures, which are not so great in the end, they are small in the end, they are the negation of the reality of Greece itself, of the reality of the European Union itself. That is why we, from our sovereignist conception, claim the right of Greek citizens to choose their own government and to make their own decisions. We also demand the need to build a different Europe, a social Europe, a Europe that will end the current democratic deficit. One of the problems that Europe has in all this global economic crisis that has suffered has been precisely that we are in a pseudo-European, we are with a European bank that is not a European bank; we are with a European parliament that is not a genuine European parliament; we are with a European commission that is not a European government; we are with a Eurogroup that is not known what it is, and that even has no legal basis for making its decisions, and it is taking them with a major democratic deficit. We think it is time to say no to this whole process of dismemberment, of dismantling the European Union; it is time to say no to all this imposition of ultra-liberal policies that are in favour of the speculative economy and that turn their backs on the real economy, that turn their backs on European citizenship. We are convinced that precisely our sovereignist conception of regaining the sovereignty of citizenship, the sovereignty of the peoples of Europe, is what will help to make a stronger Europe, a consolidated Europe, a cohesive Europe, a social Europe and a Europe that is at the service of citizens and not of markets. That is why our solidarity support for the Greek people, our solidarity support for all the peoples of Europe who want to help build this new social Europe, and our conviction that only from the exercise of citizens' sovereignty can we achieve this more just, more social Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear, the Greek people would not have reached the present degree of suffering if they had not been the victim of political misery and corruption by the Greek right and the Greek Socialist Party in previous years, true satraps that never faced the economic blackmail of the troika. On the contrary, they became their nuns, interested accomplices of those who provoked the crisis, of those who are managing it and of those who will come out even more enriched by it, even if the price to pay is to put the welfare of millions of people in check, to boost social Europe and to further unbalance our democratic world. Let it be clear that we feel fraternally in solidarity with the Greek people and express our appreciation to the Greek Government, a Government that gave you a lesson by calling the referendum in July, giving a lesson in democracy to Mr. De Guindos, because you have had no inconvenience in recognizing that 40,000 of the 56 billion injected into the financial system will not be returned and you have not at any time questioned the need to ask the citizens what they think of all this, and also a lesson to the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which at the time promoted the express reform of the Constitution to put the debt before social spending. Let it be clear, then, that we are going to vote against this rescue that you propose because we do not want to legitimise the blackmailers, whose representatives here today, you, have shown that they do not respect at least the sovereignty of the Greek people, imposing a much harder rescue than they rejected in the referendum, which forces them to sell their country at a price of balance, and without any guarantee of being able to overcome this recession, because much of the 86,000 million are destined only for the payment of debt interests. Let it be clear, then, that you are politically very hypocritical, because you do not do the duties. You, Mr De Guindos, in spite of tearing down the social state, in spite of breaking down society, in spite of consolidating large pockets of poverty, in spite of all this, are causing even greater debt in the Spanish state. We are already around 100 per cent of gross domestic product, a debt that makes the Spanish State a failed State. Today they bring us a formula that is the Greek pill, because it knows - or should know - that when interest rises and when Spain cannot pay the debt, it cannot finance the debt, they will endorse this formula that we here today coin, the Greek formula, that is, the total dismantling of the social state, the jungle and the non-future. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we Republicans do not validate this pattern that is being coined here today, and we must also say that it is false that we are in solidarity with the Greek people. Here it is not about giving, it is not about lending without interest, but about making money, because it is obvious that, unless the suffering capacity of the Greek people exceeds the human,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u25	Mr. Tardà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u26	...you know perfectly well that there is no chance that with this rescue the Greek people will be able to move forward. I should remind you - I conclude, Mr President - that much of this debt, for example - I end with this example - is endorsed by the dictate of France and Germany, which in the first rescue imposed the purchase of arms, which explains the high budgets of the Greek Ministry of Defence. That is to say, the same military expenditure that has been so much questioned has come to the dictate of the interests of Germany and France, which is why we oppose this new rescue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. By sharing the need to support Greece, we cannot share the agreement that the Spanish state government is bringing to debate today, because this agreement is not only humiliating for the Greeks, but it is the shaping of a European model with which the Galego Nationalist Block is frontally opposed. A model of voracious, tireless capitalism, as it is demonstrating in its titanic struggle, by the way, to eliminate the social achievements achieved in so many years of effort and suffering. Mr De Guindos, we dare to say that the conditions under which the agreement takes place deprive you of any hint of democratic legitimacy. And we dare to say this because the conditions were an example of prepotence and imposition by the governments that dictate the policies of the European Union. The threats were not lacking and the Greek Government was forced to accept under blackmail of an extreme financial blockade. The Greek Government was not really free to sign this agreement that humiliates an entire people, as well as in fact implying the abolition of its sovereignty, leaving in practice the Greek nation under a protectorate of Germany and the EU. The conditions set out in the memorandum affect the same failed policies which have led Greece to the situation that is conducive to this third rescue. You are refusing, Minister, the defenders of this document, not only to forgive part of the Greek debt, but not even a partial restructuring of it, and you choose, as you have done, to deepen your indebtedness. The established demands will bring more sacrifice and suffering to the working and popular classes. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot speak in favour of these agreements because we also disagree with the austerity imposed not only in Greece, but also by Mariano Rajoy's government in the Spanish state to its citizens, and because, moreover, we are concerned at this time that the Spanish state government can continue to make more labour reforms, increases in direct taxes or more social cuts, as the International Monetary Fund is currently pointing out. To say no from the Galego Nationalist Block to these agreements is to say no to a Europe committed to ensuring the over-enrichment of a minority by condemning the majority to impoverishment; a Europe that remains committed to ensuring that speculative capital does not see its large and substantial benefits minimized, even if that means leaving productive capital subject to a brutal crisis. Yes, another Europe is possible. I would ask you today, Mr De Guindos and representatives of the Government of the Spanish State, what has happened to that change of productive model that everyone has said...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u29	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u30	I'm done, Mr. President. ...that we had to work to overcome the crisis. We have not seen that neither this Government nor the European Union have done anything about it. What we have seen is that they have endeavoured, and a great deal, to ensure the domination of the speculative economy. I ask you, Minister, can the European Union explain to the Greek citizens that thanks to the Greek crisis German banking will save EUR 100 billion? This, gentlemen who defend the current European model, is what it represents: impoverishment of the social majority and enrichment of minorities, as is totally and absolutely demonstrated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Davila. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, Pedro Quevedo, and I - the Canary and New Canary Coalition - will support this rescue to Greece and this contribution from the Government and Spain for several reasons. The first, because we believe that Greece has to be in the European Community; that Greece is important in the euro and that the alternative was the exit, as previous speakers and the minister have said very well. We also believe that at the moment this situation in Greece creates doubts that in the end all this rescue, all these measures, can help the Greek people to get out and make the new debts assumed by Greece bearable. And the spokesman for the Canary-New Canarias Coalition does not say so, as the Greek Government itself says when it says that the EUR 50 billion fund estimated by the European Commission does not exist. This is said by the International Monetary Fund, which has doubts about the sustainability and capacity of Greek debt. The German Minister for Economic Affairs says that it would have been better if Greece had been removed and Greece had left. In that regard, I believe that the delay in the decision of the International Monetary Fund to enter at this time and delay the same two months does not inspire confidence in the decision being taken. But, so and so, we are going to support this proposal because, as the Socialist spokesman and the spokesman for Convergence and Union said very well, in the end this is a dish of lentils: take them or leave them. In the end, it is the only solution at this time to save Greece's permanence and we are convinced that this is necessary. I would also like to take this moment to make another appeal with regard to immigration into the Mediterranean; that situation in Greece with more than 150,000 people who have arrived this year; those islands to which thousands of human beings are coming who are fleeing the war, who are fleeing from hunger; islands on which they do not want to stay but use to reach Europe, as we live in the Canary Islands in 2006. The European Commission cannot respond to a country that is in an overburdened economic, immigration and refugee situation, with EUR 400 million; it cannot be solved with miserable quotas. In the end, these people come to Europe; in the end, the Spaniards, who had this experience, we have to make real the speech we made in 2006. This was not a Spanish problem, it is not a Greek problem now and, as I always say, we have to be in the immigration problem alongside Italy and Greece and not Germany, England, France and others, because they come to Europe and are human beings. When you throw yourself into the sea and you don't have...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u33	Mrs. Oramas, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u34	I'm done. ...and it has nothing to lose, it does not stop with 400 million or two ships; it stops with a determined European policy in conflict zones and in Africa. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u36	There are two statements that really explain what we are discussing here today, and the true and crude reality, beyond amply rhetorical statements. The first is the statements of a person as unsuspecting of leftist velocities as the director of the International Monetary Fund, who claims that Greece's debt has become unsustainable and that the country will not be able to restore debt sustainability through its own actions alone. The second is a statement, one line only, which is contained in Annex II which we have been provided with as documentation, and is from the euro summit declaration of 12 July. It says this line: The euro summit insists that nominal debt write-offs cannot be carried out. So, if the Greek debt is unsustainable, if you don't think about taking any take-off, what are we doing? We are approving a rescue of 86 billion that will largely not go to the citizens, in exchange for a whole series of draconian measures against the Greek people that the director of the International Monetary Fund herself claims will serve no purpose: VAT increases, pension cuts, privatizations. Let us remember that the International Monetary Fund itself already acknowledged in writing, on 25 March 2010, that the rescue to Greece would depress wages, pensions and GDP and trigger public debt. In the end, what is being played here is not what the Government tells us in that communication full of good words - the commitment of the Spanish people to the project of European construction, the stability of the euro as a single currency and solidarity with the Greek people - here today, what matters least is solidarity with the Greek people, in the end, what is played in this game is much simpler: financial power does not tolerate any government discussing its supremacy. This isn't a rescue. This is a blackmail with premeditation, with relief, executed in recent months with a precision of surgeon. A scare to all who dare to question their power. That is the reality and, as Prime Minister Tsipras said in the Greek Parliament last Friday: We have made the decision to stay alive rather than commit suicide by protesting the injustice committed. These measures are not going to help the Greek people to get out of the hole like the first two rescues did, they only give air; they give air to the government to buy time. I'm done. Only when we really face the crux of the issue, that is, debt restructuring, we will be talking about solutions, we will be talking about a real rescue, and in this, Minister, we play a lot to judge by the success of your policies in containing our own debt. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Guindos, I rise to this rostrum to give our opinion and position on the Greek assistance or rescue programme for an amount of EUR 86 billion and the Spanish contribution to it, which amounts to approximately EUR 10 billion. That is the figure on the table to pay off the debts owed to the IMF, the ECB and to refinance the Greek bank. Everything has developed rapidly in the technical aspect, I confess, and in the political sphere of the Eurogroup. Intervention in Greece will result in serious cuts in agricultural prices, pre-retirement, retirement and taxes. It is therefore a harsh policy of adjustment that they have to do in Greece to try to avoid the famous Grexit, that is, the exit of the euro. We agree that when you are in a circle of partners you have to comply and are not worth operations of great populacheric goodness. The 'I don't pay because I ask the citizens if they want to pay or continue as they have so far for free and to fulfill others' is very good, but the bad thing about the headlights is to know what time frame they have and how far they can stand. As among Greeks the game goes, Agamenón or Minister Varufakis, any of them, are involved. Greek society must be helped, because in front of the political bureaucracy is the Greek society itself, which has been led by continued electoral deceptions and unattainable utopian goals and, moreover, because most of this society wants to remain in the euro. As with other societies, we believe that the principle of national solidarity is key in the construction of Europe, but no more key than the coexistence of Spanish society, because it is very educational to look into the abyss to observe and contrast what one is leaving behind to launch into the unknown in political adventures that only serve very bastard selfishness, by the way. We now paint the money in the corresponding quota with the sacrifice of Spanish society, and it does not matter that we are called racanos if the objective is a united Europe, but this too, Mr De Guindos, is very educational for our own society of doors inside. We have some doubt, the rescue will have a duration of three years and then - most analysts consider that there will be no takeover on that debt - what will happen?, can there be a fourth bailout, a fifth bailout that demands new contributions when we already exceed the three previous bailouts, as you have quoted us, the €34 billion? That means a great sacrifice on our part. The present policy of Greece and the stability problems of the Government itself, to what extent do they allow us to be optimistic in this regard? I will not reject aid to Greece and our country's financial involvement, but neither - I confirm it - do I see clearly the future of Greece if they do not achieve structural changes in its economy. It's a yes but. It seems that with this third rescue and its slaughter policies you see the light of the tunnel, but I don't know if at the end of the tunnel it is another train that comes with more debts and a default. In any case, in the Forum we will not be ambiguous or scarred with co-responsibility in helping the Greek people, because it is shown, in the end, that societies are always ahead of the deceivers and falsifiers of the truth. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, in my party we welcome the fact that we have this debate in Parliament and also that there are explanations as to why, how and why we can help Greece once again and, moreover, for everyone to express their views, their criticisms, their reservations and their doubts. It is a matter - and this is not the first time - of helping in solidarity with a great deal of money and the truth is that we do not have enough precisely, but it is also true that if we are in a position to help Greece again it is precisely good news, because that is a certain strength and good health of our economy, and that can also be one of the good news in this debate. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that all public policy decisions require or compromise public resources - that is an undeniable truth - and therefore know how much can be spent, know how much public money is going to be committed to them, know whether they can be financed on their own or not, and decide whether or not to borrow to finance them is a very important decision. I believe that the main reminder of this debate is that living on loan limits the freedom, the power to make decisions and, ultimately, the sovereignty of a country; a lesson that must always remain on alert, Minister, which is also a lesson applicable to both Greece and Spain. Moreover, it is better to take it as a lesson than as an epitaph and it reminds us of something very simple, and it is that great political decisions do not differ so much from those we each take in our private lives and, therefore, it is appropriate not to spend more than one has. It is true that the memorandum of understanding is a genuine catalogue of commitments for the next three years in a myriad of subjects and sectors, a genuine amendment to all Greek public and private policies: comprehensive, demanding, with time-bound reforms and conditionality. The financial assistance agreement will be phased out and subject to compliance with a conditionality that makes it more credible and rigorous. I understand that the most dogmatic left does not want to approve an agreement that contains, among other things, financial aid to banks and a tough privatization programme, actions that criticize harshly in our domestic policy; if they voted yes they would fall into a remarkable inconsistency, although it is true that, paraphrasing President Rodríguez Zapatero, they could today give a non-positive yes, just as the non-negative one of Rodríguez Zapatero. Since I don't have time to extend, allow me three express reminders: one, that what affects one affects everyone. Two, that there are basic principles of public management that are of common observance, neither of the left nor of the right; that is, veracity, transparency, rigour, legality, efficiency. Three, which obviously - I think many have said so - the alternative to this plan was and is much worse. I'm done. We must trust that they will meet the timetable and their commitments. We have time and instruments to assess whether the word committed by Greek politicians is being fulfilled and whether the new sacrifices that the Greek people will have to take bear fruit, as we all hope, as soon as possible. Union of the Navarro People wants to accompany their commitment, that of the Greek people, with our vote in favour of helping them. That is what the intrahistory of European construction, unity and solidarity with the people of Greece demands of us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr Serrano, as the last speaker in the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u41	Minister, nebula, technocratic and dehumanized expose yours. Greece bequeathed to Western civilization a conception of the cosmos and art to the measure of the human being, and you have truly given the measure of what the human being, too human, Nietzsche would say, is capable of doing: drowning Greek society by subjecting it to the dictates of those who consider that the people who cannot survive its effects are those superfluous individuals that Hannah Arendt defined. All for stopping the feet of a government aspired to by a people who do not want it, neither morally nor physically, to submit to those dictates, who need other alternatives to the measure of the human being of Greek philosophy, alternatives that there are, no matter how much you refuse to consider them. Tore, Minister, your capacity, yours, to use the suffering of the Greek people as part of your electoral campaign. While you are implementing measures of unselfish austerity in health, education, dependence, assistance to the victims of structural unemployment, etc., you do not mind pulling out of the public treasury in the travel and subsistence of deputies and in the expenses of Congressional staff for an extraordinary and electoralist plenary. It would also give them that all the opposition would have voted against their game, they already have their majority enough; the Congress as such applauds him. This extraordinary plenary session is unnecessary and therefore wasteful, Minister. It is for the sole benefit of its electoral interests. Geroa Bai does not accept his game. I will vote no to an agreement that you well know will not work, because you are already warned that you will not solve the problem of Greece, as the two previous plans did not work. The only thing he will do is prolong and increase his suffering. Greece also gave us two other great values to Europe: democracy and tragedy. You, gentle reciprocity yours, apply to Greek society a democracy reinterpreted under the weight of your financial panzers and return the tragedy to the daily lives of your people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. For the People's Group, Mr Martínez-Pujalte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u43	Thank you very much, President. Even if I go out without a tie, I will vote in favour of supporting the Government to accept the third rescue plan, because here it seems that there have been two types of people, those who went out with a tie, who said yes, and those who went out without a tie and said no. Even if I go out without a tie, my group is going to say yes. At the outset, what I want to raise is - because I was perplexed in my seat - what we are going to vote on, what is being discussed here today. The last speaker spoke of Greek democracy. I cannot agree more with the Aristotelian and Platonic legacy of thought, but yesterday in Greece, 222 Members of all political parties voted yes to this agreement, while only 64 - a tiny minority - voted no, 11 abstained and 3 decided not to attend the debate, because they would have better things to do. What are we voting here today or what are we debating? We are subject to debate, ladies and gentlemen - and perhaps my argument is very simple - that Greece cannot meet its payment commitments. We are debating that Greece has no economic viability to move forward and is going to the European institutions to tell them: do they help me? We are not debating whether the institutions are willing to give Greece 86 billion. What we are debating is that the Greeks, through their democratic representatives and national sovereignty, say: I cannot meet my payment commitments and therefore I need help. We are debating that after a government in Greece that has failed to fulfil its duties has not been able to meet its commitments; it has not been worth the second rescue plan and because they, who are sovereigns, they, who are responsible for their actions, have done so wrong, come to the institutions so that we - the European citizens as a whole - support it for Greece to move forward. That's what we're voting for. Mr Moscoso, we are not talking about the form of election of ambassadors; we are not voting on that or talking about that, regardless of whether it seems to me very well the appointment of Rafael Estrella, Cristina Narbona and other politicians. We are not talking about any austerity plan or no austerity plan. Nor are we talking about Spanish economic policy or Mr Garzón's financial bubble, which is his only speech. We talk about Greece, financial bubble; we talk about the Governor of the Bank of Spain, financial bubble. Then, the second part of Mr Garzón's speech is, by the way, give you more credit. No, we're talking about helping Greece get ahead. My group will vote yes, first of all because we believe in Europe. We will vote yes to participate in the third rescue plan because we believe in Europe as an area of peace, freedom and progress in which there is no one left. We believe in Europe where the person - today, who have spoken of various authors, I say as Maritain - must be the centre of public action; because we believe in the Europe of the welfare state; because we believe in that Europe, today we want to be in solidarity with Greece. That's why we're going to vote yes. We will vote yes because we believe in Europe of rights and duties, because we believe in a Europe where there is no one left and where everyone, to participate, has obligations and responsibilities. We believe in Europe where we are all the more. We believe in Europe where together we add more, where together we grow more than proportionally; because we believe in that Europe of rights and obligations, we will vote yes. And because we believe in this Europe of rights and obligations, when a country has done it wrong because a government, not the citizens, has done it wrong - someone was talking about blaming the citizens and not, the blame is not on the Greek citizens, but on a government that has done it wrong - and we have to come out to their aid we have to tell them that we have to talk about rights and obligations. He is given money, financial aid, so that he can meet his payment obligations, so that the depositors of the Greek banks do not lose their deposits, so that there is a growth and employment plan in Greece. That's why we're going to vote yes. And we will vote yes, ladies and gentlemen, because we believe in the euro as an area of progress, well-being and opportunity. We are going to vote yes because we believe that the single currency has undeniable advantages for the citizens as a whole, because we believe that the single currency is an area where if there is entry and there is no exit, each meeting its obligations, opportunities are built for the citizens. Because we believe that the euro brings progress, brings well-being, brings employment and it is very good to consolidate the euro area and say that the single currency is irreversible. That's why we're going to vote yes. But let no one be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, the euro accentuates duties. When we build a single currency space, the countries that are part of it, in quotes, club acquire duties to others. Because what one does affects others, because what one'malhacies' - forgiveness for expression because I don't know if it's grammatically correct - also has a negative influence on others. That is why there are obligations to be fulfilled at the euro club. When you put your monetary policy in the hands of the European Central Bank, when you combine your future destiny or viability with a single currency that gives you guarantees, which allows you to grow more, which allows you to form a better space for solidarity and growth, you also acquire duties. We believe in that euro. When one belongs to the euro, it's not just about rights, obligations. That is why the political parties that present themselves in election campaigns promising with arguments such as those that today have employed some here in this rostrum are deceiving the citizens. That is why, when some go up at election campaign rallies to promise that they will not meet their obligations in the euro, that they will not meet their commitments to public debt, when they say they will subject their country to a high fiscal deficit, what they are doing is cheating on citizens. Because in the euro there are obligations that are fulfilled and when people are deceived, what has happened to Mr Tsipras's government, which promised things that he could not fulfil, has led the citizens to have to queue up in the cashiers in order to be able to draw sixty euros a month. Because what has happened in the euro is that the obligations are fulfilled and, when they are not fulfilled, the governments bring the citizens to ruin. That's why you can't say according to what things. It is very easy to promise, it is very easy to talk, it is very easy to dialogue with social groups by promising gold and black, but then we have to fulfil the obligations, because what is done in any corner of Europe with a single currency affects the whole population. We will also support it, knowing that the measures envisaged by the MOU are no punishment for anyone. They are measures to make Greece a viable country, they are measures for the Greeks to live better, they are measures for Greece to become a country where there is progress, where there is growth, where people can take their money out of the bank and do not have to queue up in cashiers, where they have employment opportunities. That's what the MOU contemplates and that's what we're going to approve. What we are going to approve, or what the Eurogroup countries are going to approve in agreement with Greece, is an economic model of success, because Mr Tsipras' economic model was an economic model of failure. When comments are made in this forum, we need to know what is being said, ladies and gentlemen, we need to know that only stability, fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and supply support policies are the ones that make countries grow, and the policies of more public debt, of sliding down the paths of excessive public spending, the policies of economic counter-reforms and the policies of demand and not of supply are the ones that bring countries to ruin, as Mr Tsipras has done. We have to be here today, ladies and gentlemen, but I would like this plenary not to be held. This plenary is not a pleasant plenary. One honourable Member said that this was an electoral plenary; no, here in this plenary, what we are saying to the Spaniards is that of their money they have to put a 11.6% - I think, I may be mistaken - of the €86 billion. What we are saying to the Spaniards is that they have to put almost 10 billion euros -200 for each Spanish - because Tsipras has done it wrong. What we are saying to the Spaniards today in this plenary is that they have to put money because a country has slipped by wrong and failed policies. And the Spaniards, who had already committed almost 700 euros - each Spaniard, the one who is in the line of unemployment, the one who is in the line of Caritas, the one who has just been born, had already committed 700 euros - now have to commit with 200 more because it has been done wrong. We are celebrating this plenary because Greece has failed with the Tsipras government. I would have preferred the second rescue plan to be a success, I would have preferred that instead of putting 10 billion euros we should not have put them on, I would have preferred this not to happen. What is happening in Greece is dramatic about a bad government policy in a country that a year ago, as the Minister said very well, was in a sustainable debt and today it is in an unsustainable debt; a year ago it was in a position to grow and today it is in a clear recession; a year ago it was in a position to create jobs and today it is destroying jobs, and that is why we are here today. We Europeans go out to rescue Greece with solidarity and give money not to impose punishment on anyone, not to impose penance on anyone, but to grow, guarantee the euro and facilitate the welfare state in Greece; that is why we are here today. But we are also here to tell the citizens that together with the money we are asking for, we are going to make sure that the welfare, progress, growth in Greece is guaranteed and we are going to make it possible to return the money that the Greeks are going to assume today. What I believe, ladies and gentlemen - and I finish - is that today we are in a painful situation to which a government has led that promised things that it could not fulfil, and I knew it; and the Europeans are being supportive of Greece, we are going to continue to be so, but we are going to demand that money be used for the progress of Greece and not for the dreams of any politician - forgive me the expression, at best it is not true - that it wants to make demagoguery. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez-Pujalte. I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall reply to each of the speakers in the parliamentary groups. There have been issues that have been raised in common, and I will therefore try to group them together in order to do so as soon as possible. [[The lady]] Firstly, Mr Moscoso and I think Mr Coscubiela have also asked why we bring this third programme from Greece when we did not bring the financial assistance programme from Spain. The reason is very simple. If we look at what has happened to the previous ones, this programme has had a cost. As regards the first bilateral loan that Spain made to Greece of EUR 6.7 billion, if we take into account that it currently has 30 years of life, with 10 years of lack, with an interest rate of 0.5%, Spain had to raise that money, that EUR 6.7 billion, with a financing cost that was approximately below 4%. If you make a simple financial calculation, it is evident that there is an implicit loss of about EUR 1.5 billion. On the contrary, Spain's financial assistance programme with the MEDE loan has much lower financing costs than Spain had at the time of its request in 2012. This has meant that so far this loan has saved the Spanish taxpayer EUR 2 billion per year as a result of the difference. That is the fundamental reason. Secondly, Mr Moscoso has referred to the humanitarian programme, something to be highlighted and what other speakers have also referred to. The European Commission is preparing a humanitarian programme of €35 billion. It is basically a sign of solidarity, because it is not just the 86 billion, but it is also going to be established, through the structural funds and the Community budget, EUR 35 billion, because Greece, as we all know - Mrs Oramas was referring to it - is currently having a problem with one problem: the immigration crisis, which is affecting it. As Prime Minister Tsipras said, it is a crisis within a crisis itself. Joint references have been made to everything that has to do with debt sustainability. Debt sustainability is undoubtedly one of the most relevant and controversial issues of the current programme, including the macroeconomic situation in Greece. A first consideration is that several changes have already been made to the terms of the loans, which in terms of present value are equivalent to a restructuring; what happens is that it does not imply a nominal take-off at all, but are equivalent from the point of view of relief. I have commented on how in relation to bilateral loans, for example, financial conditions have been modified on three occasions, with significant reductions in interest rates and with an increase in both the grace period and the middle life. And also, in the second program that granted the rescue fund, what in English acronyms is known as the FSF. These changes in the financial conditions of these loans resulted in a reduction in Greece's public debt/GDP ratio of approximately 50 points, as discussed above. Also - sometimes it is forgotten -, there was a removal in the year 2012 for Greek public debt holders in the hands of the private sector - the private debtors - of 100 billion euros. It is therefore not true that we have refused to discuss the issue of debt sustainability, it is not true that we have refused to talk about it. Numerous operations have been carried out which have entailed reductions in the weight of Greek debt. The point is that there is a limit and that it is not going to be accepted, as evidenced by the agreement of the Heads of Government and State, a nominal withdrawal, a removal of the face value of the debt, but indeed relief measures have existed. Another important issue that the House needs to take into account is the role of the International Monetary Fund. It is established that the role of the International Monetary Fund must be involved in Greece's third programme; it was in two previous programmes, its second programme had a different time frame, different temporal horizons than the European Rescue Fund, but at the moment the communication they have made to us, what the International Monetary Fund has told us, what its managing director, Christine Lagarde, told us, in the last Eurogroup is that two conditions have to be met. The first condition is that they must be convinced that there is indeed a real commitment on the part of the Greek Government, and that will be in October. Secondly, debt has to be sustainable, and that brings me to the previous point, that is, what is meant by debt sustainability. In the report, in the documentation that we have submitted - and that we will continue to refer to this House, because there are roles that are somehow continually being updated - it is indicated how in a short time Greek debt can reach 200 % of GDP, which is undoubtedly an unsustainable level. The fundamental thing here is that the primary surplus is actually achieved and that the privatisation programme - which is not EUR 50 billion, Mr Garzón, is EUR 6 billion in these three years - reduces the need for the rescue fund to provide funds and that, in fact and simultaneously, there is beginning to be a growth in the Greek economy, which is not going to happen, according to the projections of the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the ECB, in the next two years, but it can happen from 2018 onwards. I turn to the more political issue, because I believe that Mrs Díez and several Members have commented on it, and this is a fundamental issue. Here there are bases of economic-financial calculations, macroeconomics, but Greece's third rescue is a rescue in which politics has a lot to do, that is, there has been a fundamental political substratum approach here. I can tell you that during the Eurogroup negotiations there were basically two different points or two visions: on the one hand, those who said that Greece was a failed state - and it was not the German government, but at best some social-democratic government that I am sure Mr Moscoso knows well -, that it did not make sense for us to maintain it, that we would have a continuous transfer of income from the rest of the euro area to a country like Greece after two rescue plans and the need for this third and, on the other hand, those we considered - and there was Spain - that the important thing was to maintain the integrity and irreversibility of the euro project, that the exit of Greece from the euro would be terrifying, and not only for the Greek population, but also would have negative consequences from the point of view of what is the political-economic project of monetary union; and the latter is the one that has triumphed. Mr Moscoso had previously commented on the role of Spain. I can tell you that the role of Spain, thanks to the intervention of the Government of Spain, made it clear that there would be no withdrawals on deposits. There were governments that were saying: no, we are going to set aside cuts in the restructuring of the Greek bank on deposits, and in the end it has become clear that there will be no cuts of any kind. The mistake that we made in some other case and which was later resolved has not been repeated here again. There will be on senior debt, but that is already an approach that fundamentally affects institutional investors. The same applies from the point of view of what has been all about, for example, the operation of the Investment Fund that will be created in this respect. Finally, there is an issue, an approach that is in some way repeated over time, and that is that Europe is always moving forward in crisis situations. When you look at how the creation of rescue funds, the banking union, the capital market union has been carried out, it becomes very clear that in Europe, in the euro area, we often explore all the alternatives until we find the best. We did so, for example, in the specific case, as I mentioned earlier, of the banking union. The banking union began in 2012, and I think it is a very important step forward from the point of view of what is our construction of the single currency framework. I completely agree - I said it in my initial presentation - with all those who show that we now have another chance. In the euro area, the most important economic-financial-political integration project we have in Europe, there have been errors in the view that there were elements of this framework that were not complete. One of them was, for example, the banking union. We had a single monetary policy, a single exchange rate, but we did not realize that monetary policy has its effects on the economy through the banking channel and, if there is no banking union, it is impossible for such monetary policy to have its effects uniformly and evenly throughout the Union. That's why we went to the banking union. That is why we also went to the creation of rescue funds from the point of view of what is the demonstration of the need to deal with those countries that had a debt problem. But I believe that the future of the Union, beyond what is the programme of the five Presidents, beyond what is the contributions of the French Government or the Italian Government - if you will allow me, Mr Moscoso, the French Government has indicated that it wants to agree with the German Government, as it always does, because all these things are always being agreed - there are two very important steps in the coming months: the first is to have a budget not from the whole of the economic union, but from the euro area, which would give rise to the possibility of countercyclical action from a global point of view; secondly, a parliament for the euro area. This has difficulties, it requires treaty changes, it can create tensions with some member, as is the case for example in the United Kingdom, but I believe that is the solution. From there, you can come up with everything else. It's not simple. The plan of the five presidents sets out different stages, which are fundamentally differentiated as a result of the fact that in some cases there are some changes that require modification of the treaty and others that do not, but that is the future for monetary union to be consolidated in the coming years. I believe that this can be a very important corollary of the Greek crisis, perhaps the most important. Some spokesman commented that it is a third programme, that we already have two previous programmes that have failed, that we were sometimes repeating the same approaches that had been made in the first two programmes and, therefore, that this third was condemned, as he said earlier, to failure. However, I believe that there is an issue that has been changed, and that is that we are aware that the institutional framework needs to be changed. That is why it is no longer just a macroeconomic, financial or accounting issue, it is essentially a matter of political will, and I can assure you that the Spanish Government will always be behind that political will. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u46	Thank you, Minister. Spokesmen who want to intervene? [[Pause]] Mr. Moscoso.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u47	Mr Minister, I am pleased to see that at the end of the debate you have come a little to our positions, because it seemed that some group had questioned the opportunity to put forward this supplementary reform of the Union which we believe should accede to the agreement in Greece and you have just acknowledged that this profound reform of the Union should be the corollary of the Greek crisis and that the idea of a parliament for the euro area and a budget is not unbridled. Of course President Hollande wants to agree on this with Germany and with you. I know they've talked to you. I do not know whether it will give this Government time to agree or it will be us. This, of course, must be done on an agreed basis. It's good to know that there was a bit of a fight over the issue of removing deposits. It is true that in the MOU it is clearly explained that the senior debt will be removed when in October the analysis of the stress test and the quality of assets is completed and that then it will be possible to make some removal of senior bonds and some question of the investment fund; modest, but contributions. I wanted to make some comments on other issues. The humanitarian emergency plan has to be a specific plan to alleviate the social consequences of the crisis in Greece, not that mobilisation of the 35 billion structural funds that the European Union plans to invest in Greece until 2020, which are part of the current financial framework and which must be used efficiently, 100%, in order not to lose funds, as happened in the previous period, and to devote them to growth, investment and employment promotion. With regard to debt sustainability, it is true that there are analyses that argue that the deficit periods and the deadlines make Greek public debt likely to have a present value of around 150% of GDP and not the 202% that it will reach in some scenario next year, as explained by the MOU. But I do not want that to be used in a trapping manner to make that calculation about the possible losses of Spain in the part of the 2010 bailout by comparing the interest rate at which the Treasury was financed with the interest rate at which Greece pays that debt. We are not talking here about the capital losses that can occur when someone buys or sells bonds in the secondary markets, but we are talking about a debt issued on time and that they will pay at its due date. As for the role of the fund, of course it has to enter. It is clear that the fund has to address this issue of debt sustainability. I'm done. I think it is very important that it is concluded today that the rescue of Greece will not be enough to ensure the growth of the Greek economy and the stability of the euro area in the future. We have seen how in the last six months the situation in Greece, in the eurozone and also in Spain is unstable. The International Monetary Fund warns about the instability of growth and its vulnerability. To change this marked path, which is not very optimistic, we need something more than abandoning austerity, something more than what has already been done this year with the Juncker Plan and also with the pressure that the Socialists are making in the European Parliament, for example, with the new programme of the new Commission. That change required a new project, with which, according to his last intervention, he did not seem to disagree as much as his spokesman said. It is a clearly European project, a project that requires a great consensus in our country and in which we must walk with leaders such as the French President, the Italian President and, of course, the German Government and all those who believe that only with more Europe, a Europe of citizens and not a Europe of states, can we fulfil the European dream and remain the area of the most stability, prosperity and well-being in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u48	Thank you, Mr. Moscoso. Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I said in my speech that, with regard to this whole process, it was worth more to learn than to give lessons. In fact, we have heard many lessons, but I would like to focus on some issue that goes in the line of learning. First, we must all learn from the point of view of democratic quality. If the Greek Parliament approves by a large majority a plan which represents important sacrifices for the Greeks and which presents important doubts, I believe that out of respect for the Greeks we must take into account what they have democratically voted for. Democratic quality is to respect the will of the citizens, of the peoples, in this case of the Greek people, in addition very clearly because the majority has been clear. This allows us another reflection on what could be called the Greek tragedy of Mr Tsipras himself, who, having begun his governmental life believing himself to be a maximalist proposal - I will use this word not to hurt anyone -, some surely theoretical proposals, in the end, at the moment of truth, he and 221 other Greek Members accept a proposal and come to an agreement. It is important to take this into account, because if not sometimes someone wants to give us lessons saying he speaks on behalf of the people, someone who is dedicated to talking here about the President of Catalonia with more or less empathy and then does not understand or respect the will of the citizens. What the Greeks want right now is what their Parliament has voted for. Who can interpret the Greeks? I couldn't do it any other way. The Catalan institutions are the same as those who interpret Catalans. I think this is worth putting into value because if we don't really get nothing out of this learning. Minister, I believe that right now - and you have acknowledged it in your reply - the key is that Greece is capable of generating wealth. Our group therefore asks you - and this afternoon we will defend you in our motion for a resolution - to put a great deal of emphasis on all the instruments supporting the productive economy. This is a big obsession because without this working we will not be able to solve anything and in the end we would give reason to those who simply tell us that this is one more postponement. Also - and I said this in my first speech - I would like you and your Government to be aware that in this case there is a social problem, that when there is a tough plan like this there are undesirable social effects and that we must all make policies - also European policies - dedicated to plugging, as far as possible, these social effects. This is what in the end will give us moral strength to tell those who think as in their day Tsipras, when he preached something that led him to the government and then he was unable to fulfill, that we must be responsible at all times. The responsibility that has now been fully assumed by the Greek Government and Parliament, which at some other time has perhaps not been sufficiently assumed, I think it is a good lesson for us, I repeat, to focus on economic growth, on the productive economy and, above all, on social justice. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u51	Thank you very much. In response to the Minister's reply, I would like to point out that for us the policy of the European Union is what in football terms would be a kick forward, keep running. It's true it buys time but, for what?, where are we going?, what's going to happen after all this? Because, in the end, when we look at the specific agreement - and we have seen it in the initial intervention - if it turns out that of the total EUR 80 billion of the so-called rescue 75% comes from the Greeks themselves, it does not seem to be an international rescue either. If we add to it what they will have to get for the primary surplus that is expected, if we add to it the Privatisation Fund and other issues, in the end 75% corresponds to the Greeks themselves. If only 15% of the total of 80 billion is going to be devoted to economic growth, it seems perfectly plausible that we are talking about a kick forward. You, Minister, have said that you note some difference with regard to the previous agreements, with regard to the first and second rescue plans, and that is the institutional aspect. The truth is that neither macroeconomic data nor policies of continuous austerity fit in with the best of possible governance, so it seems to us that this is a wrong and harmful plan. But it has also added something that seems interesting to us, the restructuring of the debt. We have not said that debt restructuring is the solution; we have said that it is one of the necessary measures to produce the necessary relief to devote those resources precisely to stimulating economic growth and not to debt repayment. In short, we believe that the essential thing is to change the productive structure of the countries of the south and particularly Greece, Spain and Portugal, because that is the central issue that is at the heart of the contradictions of this current European Union. The question we are raising is: is that interest in German financial capital, is it interest in Greece being modernised, has high value-added industry that in turn allows for higher wages and much better conditions in the social state, is it interest in knowing that it means competition in these economic sectors? Or are you interested, on the contrary, in what we believe is of interest to you, that Greece is a new maquila in Europe, as it also seems to be on the horizon of the prospects of the rest of southern Europe? That is the central dilemma, because if it turns out that Germany has chosen that second path, then the European Union is destined to fail, and it is because it will be impossible to maintain a political community with such important differences. We see that there are no excessive conditions on the question of Greek military expenditure, a military expenditure which explains a quarter of the increase in the total Greek debt, a military expenditure which is devoted to buying arms and another series of goods from the French and German industry; we see that Germany has benefited during this crisis simply by the arbitration that exists in the interest rates on the public debt market, because in the end if nobody wanted to invest in Greece or Spain it went to Germany and that means very important tax benefits. In addition to the above, what are the German, French, Russian and Chinese companies now going to buy the market which Greece has set up at the request of the European agreement? Because that is the concrete reality that is happening right now, there is a market, and you know perfectly well as an economist that when you want to sell things in such a hurry at the end all you get is to missell them and give a profit space to the buyer, a buyer who also probably uses the investment funds in tax havens and flees the necessary tax payment to maintain the social state. In short, this agreement is a global misconception for its concrete macroeconomic, social and political consequences. But from the perspective of the People's Party, and I believe that Mr Pujalte has represented it very well in his speech, there is an unusual hypocrisy because he intends to blame the Syriza government, which has ruled since January 2014, for all the evils and all the economic waste and the macroeconomic situation generated by previous governments, those of New Democracy - we insist, ally and homologous of the People's Party - and Pasok. Now, we are also faced with a fateful perversion of words. You have spoken here of solidarity and help, and you have said, in addition to quite demagogic way, by the way, that the people who are right now in the restaurants of Caritas are going to pay 200 euros so that salaries can be paid in Greece. Something like that has come to say. It is a real misconception, because you know perfectly well that it is not a help what makes Spain. Spain grants a guarantee for a financial company to lend to Greece - i.e. business - at an interest rate. If things go well, that financial company gets the benefit. And if things go wrong, we pay for it. That, which is a scam and a benefit to private entities, is what you have done: you are not helping Greece; you are allowing with your money a business to be round for a social minority that has the capacity to lend to Greece. That is what you, the People's Party, have done. That is essentially this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u52	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. Mr. Martinez-Pujalte.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u53	Only half a minute, Madam President, from the seat. The only reason why the People's Parliamentary Group supports this agreement is because we are committed to the euro and to Greece remaining in the euro. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the third rescue does not guarantee anything. Allow me just one anecdote of Joan of Arc. When I was calling the war against the English, they call it a chapter and they say, "Listen, you are calling a holy war against the English in God's name." Isn't God all-powerful? She answers that yes and then they answer him: listen, if he is all-powerful, why are we going to war? He'll get what he wants. And she replied: God only helps those who help. The third rescue is a necessary condition for Greece to move forward but it is not a sufficient condition, it has to do the duties of Greece itself, it has to do the duties of a responsible government. Mr Garzón told me - and I finish, Madam President - that I was making an intervention full of hypocrisy. Look, 222 Members, the largest majority in Greece, support the agreement, only the extreme left of the extreme left and the extreme right voted no. This agreement is supported by the great majority of Parliament and the great majority of this Parliament. With all due affection and respect, Mr Garzón, it seems to me that hypocrisy is to maintain a permanent speech that does not fit in the euro area. As we do want the progress that the euro area is making, we are going to support Greece and we do not because it seems phenomenal that we do not know who is doing business or that we pay a holiday of 4,000 euros a week. That's not why, it has nothing to do with it. [[Mr Sixto Iglesias pronounces words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u54	Mr. Sixto, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u55	It has to do, ladies and gentlemen, with the responsibility of taking a country forward. What we are going to vote on here today has to do with the need to shield the well-being of all European citizens, and that is why we are going to vote on it. I believe that you, standing apart and sitting on the extreme left of the extreme left or on the extreme right, are making a mistake in the speech. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u56	Thank you, Mr. Martínez-Pujalte. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to thank all the speakers who are going to show their support, also those who are not going to, of course, but especially those who are going to support the third rescue programme, the proposal of the Spanish Government. [[The Lord]] Secondly, I want to stress that we are going to have difficulties, this is not simple, the road ahead is long and complex. There are doubts, as I mentioned earlier, about the political situation in Greece, votes of confidence, potential early elections, etc. We therefore need to analyse this situation and also everything that has to do with the role of the International Monetary Fund and the sustainability of public debt. Thirdly, Mr Garzón, look at the numbers, they are not good because the 50 billions are not part of the 86 billions. The only thing that has been considered from the point of view of privatization is EUR 6 billion over the next three years. On the other hand, Mr Garzón, look at yourself in the mirror of your contradiction in the sense that the government of Tsipras is going to vote in favour - with difficulty but in favour - and you have sometimes called yourself Syriza's brotherly party and you must consider why, since indeed sometimes in life, Mr Garzón - I can tell you this from personal experience - one has to move on the alternatives of the lesser evil and certainly the lesser evil in the case of Greece, by far, is to accept this third rescue programme and to reverse many of the policies that you have promised previously. Finally, monetary union has advantages but it also has obligations and I believe that the Greek case is surely the clearest example, the most appropriate example of how these obligations should be fulfilled, regardless of what may be, as I said earlier, the siren chants or shortcuts that have sometimes been demonstrated by a potential parliamentary group, a political party that does not yet have the responsibility of government. It is one thing to preach and another to give wheat. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. We shall now suspend the plenary session. I inform the speakers that the groups have thirty minutes, until four minus four, to present their proposals; at four the Bureau will meet, after having seen them technically to qualify them, and at four and four we will resume the plenary session. The meeting was suspended at three and twenty minutes in the afternoon. The meeting resumed at four and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u59	The meeting was resumed. The motions for resolutions have been tabled by the parliamentary groups. As we've decided at the Spokesman's Meeting, they'll be seeing each other from one child to the next. For the Joint Parliamentary Group there has been a proposal and to defend it, Mr Baldoví has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. The behavior of our Minister of Economy in the negotiations of this third rescue, in our view, has been an absolutely shameful behavior, following the dictatorship of the countries that were marking the austere. We understand that the Spanish State shares with Greece many things, among other things, that we are part of those indebted States of southern Europe. That is why, instead of trying to punish, to maintain positions with the countries in favour of implementing neoliberal and austerid policies, we understand that the Spanish State should have been able to build bridges and make alliances with those countries, especially with Greece, and to understand that Greece is our ally and not a stinking country or our enemy. We have seen that the two previous rescues have failed, and in Greece we do not live better than before the rescues. Liberal policies have been implemented and they want to continue to apply; that is, they want to reiterate the recipes that have not solved anything. I refer to the doubts that the International Monetary Fund itself has about whether or not to participate in the bailouts. We are proposing, together with the other members of the Joint Group, a change in economic policies, a change in our foreign economic policy that will benefit the Greek people, because such a change in policies would also affect our people, the Portuguese people, the Italian people and the European people in general. We propose respect for the sovereign decisions of Greek citizens. Finally, we propose that this should cease to be the Europe of merchants and start to be once and for all the Europe of citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. In the same proposal, Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. From the Galego Nationalist Block and therefore from the intervention we had this morning, where we expressed our position in relation to the agreements of the third rescue to Greece, we presented this motion for a resolution because we not only feel solidarity with the Greek people and therefore demand the right to exercise their sovereignty so that they are not subordinated, which is what the agreement reached entails, to the sovereignty of Germany and the European Union, but also because in recent years, specifically in this legislature in which the People's Party governs, we also suffer in the Spanish State all that policy of cuts that is also required of the Greek State. Despite the fact that the President of the Government repeatedly said that Spain was not rescued, that policy, that austere which the Rajoy Government printed on the government's work in this legislature, indicates that the Spanish State was also rescued and, therefore, we had the European Union's impositions on these cuts that we all know. That is why we call in our resolution for a different Europe, a social Europe, a Europe of peoples, a Europe that does not seek to usurp the sovereignty of the nations that make up it and that does not serve to ensure that the speculative economy is the single engine of the European Union. We want a social Europe and we want the economy to be at the service of people's well-being. That is why we are defending the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Davila. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Squerra Republicana de Catalunya is presenting a motion for a resolution which is in front of the currency that I believe has been consolidated today, a currency coined by markets that is nothing other than the following: the peoples of Europe, your well-being, your future can never conflict with our interests. This is the currency of the markets. In the face of this currency, which is also shielded by the current bailout, which is apparently to be adopted here today, we are presenting a three-foot motion for a resolution. First foot, support for Greek citizenship; second foot, people have the right to decide their future; and third foot, people are much more important than business and capital accumulation. These are the three legs on which our resolution is based, which, in our view, has all the meaning and should be considered by you insofar as it moves away from radicalities and seeks to do justice, not only with regard to the Greek people but also with regard to all the peoples of Europe, since if something has this rescue of importance to us, it is a warning for navigators because what is happening today in Greece perhaps tomorrow, possibly, and unfortunately soon, can happen to other peoples of Europe. We therefore ask for your vote in favour of our motion for a resolution, which is also shared by the comrades of Compromís, the Galego Nationalist Block and Amaiur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mr Larreina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we, the sovereignists of Euskal Herria, together with the sovereignists of other nations that make up the state right now, have tabled this motion for a resolution in clear positive terms. It is a motion for a resolution which says yes, expressing our support for Greek citizenship, arguing that, like the citizens of the rest of the peoples of Europe, they have the right to decide their own future, without any interference, pressure or external imposition, precisely because these impositions run counter to their sovereignty and the basic principles of democracy. At the same time, we express our rejection of the imposition of measures that, instead of helping the population, attack the dignity of people, because they are putting above the human being the interests of the speculative economy, because austerity policies are being promoted and promoted that turn their backs on the fundamental objective of a social Europe, which is to serve citizens, and at the same time they are hindering - and experience confirms this - socially sustainable growth, they are increasing inequality, they are cutting social rights and they are attacking the welfare state and at the same time undermining social cohesion in Greece and the European Union as a whole. That is why our motion for a resolution has this dual character: positive, solidarity with Greek citizens, solidarity with the rest of Europe's citizens who have the right to a social Europe and a Europe of well-being, and at the same time rejection of a series of ultra-liberal policies which they have shown to date to increase inequality, impose anti-social criteria and ultimately run counter to their own citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. To defend the resolution tabled by the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Azpiazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. As in our resolution - some of us seem to be making an effort to put genuine manifestos instead of clear questions - our group has intended to simply pick up the essentials of support for the rescue of Greece, we simply sympathize with the Greek people by supporting the rescue and urging Mr Rajoy's Government to work towards facilitating its success so that Greece can grow and prosper within a more solidarity Europe and also within the euro. We also believe that the success of the rescue depends on the behaviour of those responsible for European governments and the European institutions themselves and also on that success depends on the very future of the European Union. I'm not going to repeat the arguments this morning. The essence of the debate has already taken place. We know perfectly well each other's positions. I am only speaking to ask you to support our motion for a resolution. We have developed it, I insist, in a way that is understood and can be supported by all the groups in the House. Getting involved in mixing content and incorporating elements would hinder the consensus and maximum support that the Basque Group believes is desirable. From our group, we also say that we will not be inconvenient in supporting other proposals or at least other points in the proposals of other parliamentary groups, as long as they are in line with what we are proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu, for your conciseness. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u70	Thank you, President. Briefly but in line with our speech this morning, our parliamentary group also wants to divide - and has done so - this proposal which we are putting to your consideration and vote in two parts: on the one hand and clearly, to support the third agreement, the third rescue for Greece and, on the other hand, to support it with positive, institutional and collective measures for the European Union as a whole, because it seems to us that only if structural measures are taken in Europe, as Minister De Guindos has announced in his reply, where he has expressly said that the Government is aware and that the European institutions are aware that the European institutional framework needs to be reformed, only if that transformation is made and those measures are taken to transform the European institutional framework, this third rescue will be successful. That is to say, the success of the third rescue depends not only on a written will, on a desire for the Greeks and for the Europeans, but also on the fact that in Europe, in addition to the measures to be taken in Greece, structural measures are being taken, which Minister De Guindos, in response to this spokesman and I understand that other spokespersons have taken as the real challenge of the European Union at this time. Indeed, there is a monetary union, but there is no fiscal union, there is no economic union, and that wastes Europe's development as a political power. We are an economic power, it is said many times, but we are not a political power, we do not have the political springs, and that is why that speech, for example, about the fiscal unity that is accepted for Europe but not accepted for Spain always ends up leading to a failure or at least a risk of failure, as my group thinks about this third rescue. In historical perspective I will repeat what I have said. In the end, if the nationalism of the Member States succeeds, Europe will fail, and Europe began to build precisely to overcome the nationalism of two of the then Member States, France and Germany. That is the challenge, overcoming that nationalism that is fraught with the growth of political union. That is why in our resolution we want to insist on an aspect that I mentioned in my speech this morning, that the Memorandum of Understanding imposes on Greece a series of reforms to improve competitiveness; reforms that other Member States have refused or refuse to adopt internally or that, in fact, Minister, would require reforms at Community level to make them effective. It's not worth Greece taking over. If they are not taken up at European level, there is no effectiveness. There is a need for a renewed reformist momentum throughout the European Union that generates positive externalities for the whole and a review of the solidarity policies that come into action to help Greek citizens and those throughout Europe. Much has been said here about the peoples. I like the reference to people in the French sense, the people, in the sense of citizenship: European citizenship, Greek citizenship, Spanish citizenship. That is why our motion for a resolution divides it into two parts. On the one hand, precisely and clearly, we give support to the agreement reached at the Eurogroup meeting on 14 August, the support that Minister De Guindos asked us today in his presentation. Without any doubt, we support from our parliamentary group, from the Progressive Union and Democracy, this third rescue to Greece, this third agreement which will be definitively concluded this very evening or tomorrow. On the other hand, in line with the speech, reflection and diagnosis that we have made, so that this agreement, that rescue is a success and does not fail like the two previous ones, we urge the Government to strengthen the common European project and promote effective European citizenship, guaranteeing certain basic social rights to all citizens of the European Union, regardless of the fiscal situation of their country of residence, creating a fund directly administered by the European Commission when Member States are unable to make their investment commitments in basic social services. This is not a humanitarian aid fund. I want to make it clear, Minister, that some parliamentary groups have proposed a humanitarian aid fund. No, it's not a humanitarian aid fund. It's a fund so there doesn't have to be a humanitarian aid fund. It is a social and economic policy fund managed directly by the Commission to tackle these problems and to guarantee social cohesion, social policy and effective social rights, which we proclaim for all Europeans, for Greek citizens. Secondly, we call on the Government to promote the direct participation of the European Union in the financing of unemployment expenditure which affects the various countries of the European Union, Greece at the moment, but also the different countries of the European Union, and for Spain, which affects us cyclically and asymmetrically, even when our economy is doing well, is an example of which we can take good note. Thirdly, we call for regular political control of the implementation of the agreement in the European Parliament, as well as for a commitment by the Spanish Government to bring these future debates here before it is put in place in the European institutions. You said in your reply, Minister, in reply to someone who had asked you, that you have brought this debate here because it has an economic cost. He explained it. He explained what this one cost us and what the previous ones cost us. No, it is not because it has an economic cost, but because it is a political problem that affects us in the first order. We propose that it should always come, but not because it costs us fair, but because what costs us costs us in political terms and costs us as Europeans. We want that political debate to take place before the current government goes to the European institutions to express the position of the Government of Spain. You said that the Spanish Government has been very sensitive to the political particularity and that, indeed, it is not only an economic issue, which naturally has economic consequences, but it is an issue that the Spanish Government has always seen from a political perspective. That is why we are asking you to come here before we get to the European level, not because it costs us in economic terms, but because it is a political debate in the first place. Fourthly, we call on the Spanish Government to promote the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion at Community level to contribute to the equitable sharing of tax burdens at national level, to eradicate tax havens, to increase transparency and information between national tax agencies and to agree on a European tax base on corporate tax to prevent tax evasion by multinationals. We want this issue to be proposed and discussed in Europe and promoted by the Spanish Government. Finally, Minister, in relation to the question on which I have drawn your attention earlier on to the things that are asked of the Greeks in the memorandum of understanding, but which are not applied by the European countries, we ask that Spain assume and defend in Europe the best practices listed by the European Commission in the memorandum of understanding with Greece, which have not yet been introduced in our country, such as the inclusion of the law of second chance of public credits or the implementation of a national strategy for a guaranteed minimum income that rationalizes in a coherent way all the non-contributory aid existing in our country so that it can reach all the people with needs in the most just way and outside the autonomous community in which they reside, that is, that this diagnosis we make for Spain also for Europe, and that we ask the Spanish Government for Spain to encourage it also at European level, because, as I say - and I also believe that in coherence with what the Minister has proposed in the reply - if we simply support the rescue but we are not aware that the success of the third-party of the Greeks for the success of the Greeks alone and for the success of the Greeks alone, we will take for the Greeks. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Garzón has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am speaking briefly from the seat because our resolution is the natural conclusion of the debates we have had this morning and of the two speeches in which our group has defended the position reflected in the resolution. Our group also maintains consistency over time. We were one of the groups that stood firm in the conviction that the Europe that was being built in the 1990s was a European Union that was aimed solely and exclusively at satisfying the interests of financial companies. We then called on that process to build the Europe of merchants, because we believed that there was a great fault, that it was to build a common space for capitals and, however, to leave fiscal policy, politics in capitals on the sidelines. We believed that this was a fundamental mistake and we believe that time has given us reason. The fundamental contradictions of the Greek agreement are rooted in this way of designing both political and economic institutions and these very important failures have crystallized in the current crisis in two different models: a central Europe, with productive structures of high added value, and a peripheral Europe, among which we, the Spanish economy, also find ourselves with productive structures of low added value. However, as this is one of the main contradictions, no recent agreement within the framework of the European Union has attempted to resolve it. We believe that it means insisting on errors to continue with agreements like this, in which it does not go to the root of the problem. That's why in our resolution we talk about solidarity, but in our group's opinion solidarity is sharing, it's not lending interest rates to make business for financial institutions. We therefore believe that an absolute turn must be taken to the agreement, a third agreement that will be a failure, because it is based on the same reasons as the first agreement and the second agreement, both of which have already failed and officially recognised. We therefore understand that this third agreement is the door to a fourth agreement. We believe that this government should be urged to defend an absolutely different theory of solidarity, based on other principles, on the principles of the productive restructuring of Greece, as well as that of the rest of the countries of the southern European Union. This Government should defend this position by adding the necessary restructuring of the public debt so that it can free a ballast that is now a heavy burden on the Greek economy, which means a heavy burden on the backs of the Greek citizens, just as it is in our economy. This resolution points out much better than any agreement reached, above and beyond the will of the citizens, to the extent that in that referendum the Greeks made it very clear that they did not want austerity policies, that they did want a European project but in a different way and in a different nature. That call must be heard and the efforts of the Government of Syriza and Alexis Tsipras must be acknowledged, but this agreement, as the Government of Greece has acknowledged and as international institutions have also recognized, is not much less positive for the economy of Greece or for the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. In defence of the same proposal, you have the floor, I think, Mr Coscubiela. [[Denial]] Then we moved on to the Catalan Group of Convergence and Unity. Mr Macias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly, I will speak on behalf of the Democratic Convergence to explain to the ladies and gentlemen that we have tabled a motion for a resolution in the spirit of what has been discussed this morning: to take good note of the agreement, to understand that the programme is the result of dialogue and agreement, a very important element for us, which contains priorities which are economic growth and therefore job creation, as well as the maintenance of the welfare state in Greece. A third issue that is very relevant to us is that we can proceed with the approval and implementation of the entire programme and that from the House we can carry out a complete follow-up of the whole process. We therefore request that the Government report to the Congress of Deputies every six months on the implementation of this programme. We also urge the Government to encourage the participation of the International Monetary Fund in the agreement, which fully guarantees the validity of the agreement, and finally something that is very relevant to us - it has also been said this morning - and is that we proceed to learn from everything that has not worked, which is somehow governance. We therefore urge the Government to proceed within the institutions of the Union to improve these governance mechanisms, especially those dedicated to promoting convergence in the European area of maximum political, economic, fiscal and social integration. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr. Picó, for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u76	Thank you, President. The joint motion for a resolution we have tabled by the Democratic Union of Catalonia and the members of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia demonstrate the European will and commitment of the Democratic Union of Catalonia, not from now on but from the beginning of the process of European integration. Now, at this crucial moment, it is when the European forces must show that we believe in this Europe that we are defending, in more Europe, as Mr Sánchez i Llibre said in this morning's debate. For the Democratic Union of Catalonia, it is a necessary agreement to move forward in measures to alleviate the serious economic, budgetary and social situation in which Greece finds itself, but it is also a necessary step to ensure the stability of the euro area. The assistance programme is the result of the dialogue and agreement between the European Union and Greece ratified by the Greek Parliament and we believe that the agreement is based on responsibility and solidarity. European integration means shared sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen, between the European Union and the Member States. This shared European sovereignty implies a collective responsibility that gives rise to solidarity between the partners: shared solidarity, collective responsibility, solidarity between the partners. Mr Sánchez i Llibre said in the debate that we are faced with a great example of European solidarity. Indeed, solidarity between the members of the European Union from the point of view of mutual responsibility. We also believe that it is an agreement that must aim at the economic growth of Greece, job creation and the maintenance and sustainability of the welfare state in Greece. The agreement must mean breaking with Greece over the past 40 years to achieve sustainable growth, an agreement that seeks to help Greece boost sustainable growth and job creation. Greece must have a future as a competitive economy within the European Union. It must also be an agreement that must not forget the situation being experienced by Greek citizens. We cannot forget that the European Union is, of course, economic, but also and above all it is and must be the social Europe. [[Rumors]] The final considerations which finally reflect the motion for a resolution put forward, as other Member States of the European Union have pointed out...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u77	I'm sorry, Mr. Picó. I pray silently. Go on, Mr. Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u78	As I said, as other Member States of the European Union have shown, the Government must take an active position within the European Union to seek the participation of the International Monetary Fund in the agreement reached. We also believe that the Government needs to report biannually on the implementation of the agreement. If today we hold a debate on the agreement, it must also transcend this debate in time for Congress to take into account the development and implementation of the agreement. The minister told us this noon that it is a long and complex change. Therefore, if the path is long and complex and today we are discussing the agreement reached, it must also be discussed in the future on the development and implementation of the agreement. From these perspectives and on the basis of these considerations, MEPs from the Democratic Union of Catalonia are going to support the agreement reached by believing that it should be implemented as a guarantee to boost as an instrument to generate more economy, more employment, but also to bet on more Europe. The exercise that we are doing today in this act is of more Europe. Today, more Europe means more Greece. We support the agreement reached by trusting that the mechanisms to be implemented will generate stability, generate growth and give Greek citizens an opportunity to hope, but also that it will be an opportunity to promote a Europe of more political integration, of more economic integration, of more social integration, in short, of more Europe. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. For the Socialist Group and to defend its proposal, Mr Moscoso del Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to the content of our resolution, which begins by highlighting how the Greek crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of economic and monetary union and that, despite the progress made in recent times, the economic policy of the euro area needs to be strengthened. For Europe to grow and improve the quality of its growth and productivity, and for employment to increase, much more is needed than what has already been approved, of course, to strengthen the Juncker Plan, and it must also move forward by taking advantage of this crisis as an opportunity. It is an agreement which, we recall, has prevented the exit of the euro, which justifies our support, and which has been achieved thanks to the impetus of many European leaders among whom we highlight European socialist leaders such as François Hollande. We also take note of the attitude of the Spanish Government, which has been a modest contribution, despite the fact that our economy has suffered particularly from the consequences of austerity and that, moreover, today it is clearly vulnerable to growth in the medium term. We propose the adoption of a special humanitarian aid plan for Greece in the terms of the debate, not the use of the structural funds but a specific Community plan. We also argue about the concern generated by the high level of Greek indebtedness and the sustainability of Greek public debt. We therefore urge Greece and the rest of Europe to address as soon as possible the problem of the sustainability of the Hellenic debt with responsibility, solidarity and a long-term vision, where the issue of the participation of the International Monetary Fund in the rescue is framed, as we have seen. We call for the completion of banking union, fiscal union, economic-social union and political union. To this end, we make a series of proposals that are reported in a correlative manner. We also call for the maximum support of all political forces in the parliamentary spectrum. Banking and financial union, complete the banking union to prevent the taxpayer from financing future bailouts, to cut the vicious circle between public and private debt, to reduce the cost of potential future banking crises and to eliminate the moral risk faced by financial managers in recent years. It should be remembered that profits have been privatized and losses have been socialized. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u81	Please, I beg a little silence to attend to the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. We also propose that the Single Resolution Fund should be able to access the MEDE to strengthen its capacity as a real firewall in resolving banking crises. We propose the creation of a European Deposit Guarantee Fund and also increase the allocation of the Single Resolution Fund. With regard to the unified capital market, we propose its creation in order to increase the capacity of fit for future European crises and to extend the channels of financing to businesses. Tax union. We propose the creation of a real budgetary and financial framework within the framework of the euro area that complements fiscal policies implemented by the European Central Bank, a budget to finance European public goods to implement policies for growth, productive investments to countercyclically intervene when the situation so requires and also to finance public goods such as energy or the fight against climate change. We propose to create employment or unemployment insurance that complements national systems to reduce the tax burden in the countries most affected by the crisis and serves as countercyclical aid in countries with deep structural differences. We propose harmonising the corporate and PRTI tax system, because tax differences lead to the perception that the effort is different in some countries and in others and this complicates, for example, the approval of bailouts. We propose that the directive be adopted to harmonise the common consolidated corporate tax base and move towards harmonisation of the minimum company rate. We propose to establish real European CO2 taxes, that the financial transaction tax be a more powerful reality and to devote to the European budget a fraction of the harmonised company tax and the creation of a European Treasury to strengthen the financial stability of the Union and to finance countercyclical investments, which will help to manage the heavy burden of European public debt. The European Treasury, created from the MEDE, will have the capacity to issue Eurobonds and partially pool European public debt according to certain rules to be agreed. Economic and social union. Macroeconomic and productive convergence is key to correcting macroeconomic imbalances. That is why we propose to jointly address the imbalances in the balance of payments and productivity differences, as well as to make effective use of the fiscal capacity available in the countries that have it. We propose to create national competitiveness agencies coordinated by the Commission, to boost the single market and to expand the Juncker Plan by focusing on the countries with the highest level of unemployment. We also propose to modify the system of fiscal and economic governance by simplifying the rules of operation of the European Semester and establishing a consolidated European macroeconomic position to take advantage of the margin available in both the external and fiscal balances and to avoid the decompensation that there are countries with huge surpluses, such as Germany, and others like Spain that are already in deficit. We also propose to maintain an expansive monetary policy while changing the ECB's mandate to include growth and employment among its objectives. As regards social union, we propose to create an integrated labour market with a minimum wage for the euro area calculated by means of the average average wage of each State, to harmonise the retirement age and the European collective bargaining system and, of course, the European unemployment insurance to which I have already referred. With regard to political union, we will reform the Presidency of the Eurogroup by bringing it together with that of the Commissioner for Economic Affairs. Within the European Parliament, a euro committee will be set up with the power to manage these policies with greater coordination with national parliaments, with a single representation of the euro in international financial bodies and with a reform of the medium-term treaties incorporating the MED and consolidating all these changes in economic and euro governance. In the second point of our resolution, on the last page, we agree to support the financial assistance programme and the Spanish participation in it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Moscoso del Prado. For the People's Group, Mr Floriano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the eurozone has agreed to provide €86 billion for the rescue of Greece through a new programme of the European Stability Mechanism, of which €25 billion will be earmarked for the recapitalisation of the Greek financial system. The Government asks us whether we support this third rescue to Greece, and the response of the People's Parliamentary Group is yes, unequivocally yes. We believe that it is best for European citizens, for the future of the European Union and for the credibility of monetary union. This is the debate that we have been called to, ladies and gentlemen, and this is the debate that the parliamentary group is not going to avoid. What would be the face with which Europe would be looked at if, given the possibility or the impossibility for some of its citizens to draw money from their bank ATMs, instead of a solution, let us tell them, as the Socialist Parliamentary Group has done today, that we are going to see if we agree to create a European treasure? What would be the face with which Europe would be looked at if, given the impossibility of some of its pensioners being able to collect their pensions, instead of answering them, with euros, assuring them of their return, we had told them, as the Socialist Parliamentary Group has done today... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u85	Excuse me, Mr. Floriano. Please take your seats and attend to the speaker. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Imagine if, given the impossibility of pensioners being able to collect their pensions, we would have told them, as the Socialist Parliamentary Group says today: wait, we are going to reform the European Union in depth and then we are going to tell them something. That is why if we want the Union to move forward, if we want to do the best service to Europe, we should not mislead the debates that we are facing; we should not avoid the debates that are appropriate at all times. This is not the debate on the future of the European Union. This is the debate on the present of European citizens who are having a bad time. If what we want is to do the best service to the European Union, Spain should not be a problem for Europe as it was when the Socialist Party ruled, but rather the country that grows the most, as it happens when the People's Party ruled. If what we want is to do the best service to the European Union, Spain should not be the country that destroys the most jobs, but rather the country that creates the most jobs, as is the case when the People's Party governs. If what we want is to do the best service to the European Union, Spain should transfer security and trust by adopting, for example, budgets, which is what happens when the People's Party governs, rather than having a government running away from citizens to the fate of a rescue, which is what happens when the Socialist Party governs. Ladies and gentlemen, when the election results announced after the last Greek elections the victory of Syriza, all the leaders of the Spanish left wanted to be Tsipras. Today the PSOE votes with Mr Tsipras until the refinancing of the Greek financial institutions, and that's fine, and the United Left no longer wants to be Tsipras and wants for Greece what not even the Greeks want. [[Applauds]] It has become clear that it is not the same to be installed in the populism of the banners or in the demagogy of the television sets as at the head of decision-making that affects people's lives and that the visionaries of the great social changes that are to come are unable to see the changes that are taking place before their eyes at the doors of their homes. In conclusion, allow me one last thought in which I would like to highlight what unites us to a vast majority of this House after this debate. Apart from the nuances that can be included in the speeches or even in the motions for resolutions, probably more in the spirit of rescheduling own profiles in this front hall of the pre-election campaign, there is today a great consensus in this Congress of Deputies; today there is a great agreement, a majority agreement. Today, the Spanish, through their legitimate representatives, say yes to help European citizens who are having a bad time; they say yes to the European project; we say yes to the representatives of the extremist people - of the Spanish people, also of the extremist people - to solidarity; we say yes, ladies and gentlemen, to responsibility. [[Laughter]] The majority of the Spaniards say that it is because Europe is the public space of freedom and solidarity that we want to share; we say yes because the reforms implemented allow us to be supportive and an example for countries in the Union that are experiencing difficulties. We say yes, ladies and gentlemen, to the representatives of the Spanish people because we believe in the fulfilment of the commitments and the fulfilment of the word given. With this we give most of the Members of this House we behave as we are, as the representatives of a great nation. We behave as representatives of a nation of free and equal citizens; as representatives of a plural nation that sees in freedom, solidarity and responsibility the improvement of the well-being of the citizens we represent. Therefore, nothing better than, at the conclusion of this debate, I would like to highlight the great consensus that unites us in favour of the future of Spain, which is also the future of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Floriano. In a few minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u88	We shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Dona Gracia Fernández Moya, I ask Don Antonio López Olmo if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u89	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u90	Don Antonio López Olmo has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u91	Signed by all groups, an institutional statement against gender-based violence has been sent to this Presidency, which the secretary will read first.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u92	With venial, Mr. President. Institutional declaration against gender-based violence. In the face of the chain of violent deaths and other very serious crimes against women and minors, which took place in our country during this summer, the Congress of Deputies wants to express its firmest revulsion and solidarity with the sons and daughters of the victims and their families, as well as with those others who have been murdered in this year and in previous times. We would like to appeal to the Government of Spain and to the local and autonomous administrations to redouble their efforts to prevent these events and to support the victims, while showing their total contempt for the abusers, who must feel the social rejection for their macho and criminal attitude. Each known case must be dealt with immediately, providing all possible and adequate resources for the situation of each woman and her children if they have them. Similarly, we would also like to call on the Administration of Justice to give greater attention and sensitivity to this phenomenon, in order to give more protection to women and to ensure that more people report the situation they suffer. We call for firmness in the punishment of abusers, who have no place in a democratic and advanced society. In particular, the Congress of Deputies wishes to state that it is aware that the sons and daughters of the mother victims are at the epicenter of the phenomenon and directly suffer its impact, often being the instrument for the most brutal of blackmail and revenge. We therefore stress the importance of children living in a safe environment away from abuse and abuse. We are confident that the entry into force of child protection legislation today will help to prevent these cases that are so alarming. We encourage anyone familiar with a case of gender-based violence to bring it to the attention of the nearest administration to know, immediately, what is the right thing to do and effectively protect women by stopping, once and for all, this spiral of violence that does not cease. We also want to pay tribute to the indirect victims of gender-based violence: those friends, brothers, sisters, parents, mothers, who suffered the brutality of violence that also wants to end solidarity and support for the victims. Spain is an example for the international community in its fight against this terrible problem. We must continue to make progress towards its complete elimination, and this requires the cooperation of all citizens. All of us from our respective personal, family or professional roles must commit ourselves to this task. That is why we call on all the powers of the State and society for that commitment and collaboration that - we have complete security - we will obtain for the total disappearance of gender-based violence. Signed: All parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary first.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u94	We shall proceed to the votes. First of all, the motion for a resolution of the Joint Group shall be voted on in its terms. [[Mr Larreina, Mr Tardà, Mrs Fernández Davila and Mr Baldoví]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 21 against, 288 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u95	It's rejected. Motion for a resolution by the Basque Group, PNV, which is also voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 302 against, 9 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u96	It's approved. Motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). We voted, first of all, on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 298 against, 17 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u97	It was adopted. Now point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 100 against, 190 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u98	It's rejected. Motion for a resolution by the Plural Left. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 20 against, 293 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u99	It's rejected. Proposal by the Catalan Group of Convergence and Unió. First, points 1 to 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 297 against, 9 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u100	They are approved. Point 5 of the Catalan Group proposal. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour 130 against 184; abstentions 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u101	It's rejected. Motion for a resolution by the Socialist Group. First of all, point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 115 against, 179 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u102	It's rejected. Point 2 of the Socialist Group's motion for a resolution. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour 299 against 19 abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u103	It was adopted. Motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party, which is being voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 297 against, 20 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-08-18-CD150818.u104	It's approved. The meeting rose. It was five and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
