ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u1	The meeting was called to order. It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Parliament of Catalonia, which is an organic amendment to the Organic Law of the Judiciary and other related rules in the field of linguistic rights in the field of justice. For your presentation, we are joined this afternoon by three representatives of the Parliament of Catalonia, to whom we extend our warmest welcome. First of all, you have the word Mrs. Elena Ribera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to greet Mr Pié, President of the Council of the Collège d'Avocats de Catalunya; the representative of the Association of Juristes per la Llengua, Mrs Carandel; the Secretary General of Relations with the Administration of Justice, Mrs Maria Josep Feliu; and Mrs Bibiana Segura, Legal Adviser to the Councillor of the Department of Justice, who today wanted to accompany us in this proposal that we are presenting. It is for me an act of responsibility to be part of the Catalan terna and to defend the Resolution 846/2010 of the Parliament of Catalonia by which it is agreed to present to the Bureau of this Congress the proposed organic law amending the Organic Law of the Judiciary and other related norms in the field of linguistic rights in the field of justice. The assessment as mere merit of the knowledge of the language of the Autonomous Communities contained in the Organic Law of the Judiciary - articles 110.2h), 216 bis, 3.2.d), 431.2(f), 450.4- does not contribute to guaranteeing the effective right to its use. This guarantee, in our view, would only be endorsed if judges and magistrates, prosecutors, court secretaries, staff at the service of the Administration of Justice and people's jurors knew and mastered the language effectively; and if knowledge of the language and right of the autonomous communities where it existed was required as a prerequisite for providing places in the territory of the respective community. The Catalan Government since it had competence in this area, ladies and gentlemen, has taken all the unimaginable measures in the defence and promotion of Catalan in the Administration of Justice; but, unlike in other areas of the Administration, the Administration of Justice unfortunately remains impermeable. [[economic resources, training, advertising,]] This is also a downward trend. In 2013, only 12.4% of judgments were handed down in Catalan, and that the overall budget for language policy was over €93 million. The most positive moment for us was 2004, almost 21% of the judgments; unfortunately it was coupled with economic rewards. The proposal we are presenting to you today is not new. Thus, with identical or very similar content, a proposal to amend the same organic law was submitted in June 2004 at the request of the Parliament of Catalonia; in June 2013, a proposal for a law; in 2014, a non-law proposal; and recently, in 2015, amendments to the amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. All these initiatives have been rejected, not because of a lack of legal basis - this is the most serious - but because of a lack of political will. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to insist, and we insist. We have come despite the fact that we were warned that it would be of no use to us, we have come with the mandate of a very large majority of the groups in the Catalan Parliament and with the warning also of the People's Party of Catalonia that here there are 186 Members who will be decisive in determining not only the position of the People's Group, but also that of the Congress of Deputies. We come with the CUP question, which also voted in favour of this project: Why should we go and ask them to let us express ourselves in Catalan when they do not let us be? We come, yes, in spite of the sorrows; to see if this time we are more fortunate to make ourselves understood, we are trying. We have also come to tell you that you do not suffer in case we have lost signy, as I have read in some previous 'Diary of Sessions'. No, we haven't lost him; they don't suffer. It is natural for a Catalan to speak Catalan and to want to express himself in his own language, which is Catalonia's own - the statute says in its article 6-. It is natural that he wishes to do so before a court or any other place and wishes to be served in this language; it is natural that he wishes to do so as an exercise of his right of linguistic choice, because it is established by article 33 of the Statute itself, or as a manifestation of the right to effective judicial protection, of article 24 of the Constitution. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is natural that you want to express yourself in your language, as a matter of feeling recognized in what you are. We have also come to remind you, if necessary, that the Statute of Catalonia is an organic law that has emerged from these General Courts, therefore, of compulsory compliance for all Spaniards; that a State that is materially plurilingual and plurinational would have to provide the means and resources and, above all, the political will necessary to make anyone, speak the language he speaks, that he is a citizen of that State, regardless of where he is, feel fully recognized in what is expressed in the official language he chooses. We have come to propose, with all due respect, that they take into account the richness of linguistic diversity. Finally, we have come to tell you that the ideal of the Greek police of citizens, not of subjects, seems very nice to us; and above all that respect, tolerance and understanding, also in this field, would remove fear and allow us to advance in a just justice, in capitals, and worth redundancy. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u3	Thank you, Mrs Ribera. Mrs Gema Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u4	Thank you, President. Members present here, we want justice for Catalan. We will defend this proposal here today but we cannot ignore the context to which we have been subjected. From the outset, this proposal comes from the Catalonian Parliament supported by a very large majority, and we want you to support this reform. To this end, I ask you a question: On what principles is justice based? Surely - I think we would all agree - justice is based on respect for people and their rights. The citizens of Catalonia will surely find it ironic that today I appeal to respect when we are living on the part of their absolute majority - too often backed by what should be the forces of progress, not always - a very serious attitude of undermining our language, our identity history, our right to decide, our ability to self-manage our resources and, ultimately, our democracy. You have transcended all the limits of those Aristotelian virtues of prudence, justice and goodness. With what kindness or respect do they treat us when they make continuous use of legal persecution and of the Constitutional Court with political criteria, even undermining their prestige and rigour? Since the appeal against the statute, which was approved in this Congress and by the citizens, you, the gentlemen of the People's Group, have opened up the gap in which you have now settled; but, as you are seeing, our democratic and civic sense, that of all the citizens of Catalonia, is overcoming more and more strongly, with mobilizations, convictions in relation to the right to decide. We go forward and today we come here to defend our language, our culture and our justice. As Orwell said, the fundamental mistake is to think in terms of flight. You, as you do not believe in this reality that we represent, deny it, are fleeing. We have our own language, we have our own right, both old and existing. Today it is up to us to demand that they fulfil the mandate of the European Council, of the European Parliament, which urges them to recognise Catalan and the right of justice in Catalonia as an indispensable requirement in terms of guarantees. One merit is not enough. We have to believe in the rights we protect, so the requirement is the guarantee. We have the right to be treated and understood in Catalan, and today it is not guaranteed in the courts of our country. For years now, associations and civil society have been fighting for this demand and efforts have been unsuccessful. Do you know what the answer is? In Spanish or nothing. This is not a problem of the professionals of justice but of you, who do not believe in respect for the language and the law that conforms to our reality. When the Spanish philosopher María Zambrano wondered about the risk of abstaining, she said: What has been the fate of thought in Spain? Abstaining, remaining silent, not changing anything and by making it touch betrayal and above all tradition. They overcome the pleasure of domination. The new policy should be based on trust in democracy and the value of fraternity, which is respect. Let us remember those three proposals of the Letters for the Progress of Humanity, Herder's: the great woman of peace, the danger of false State interests and the feeling of justice towards other nations. Or nationalities, whatever they want, but we exist. Permanent change, ladies and gentlemen, is a democratic fact. Catalonia will decide on its political future, accept it; but today we defend a basic right in justice: the principle of orality in one's own language, express oneself and be heard and treated in the value of the word meaning Catalan. There is no justice without one's own language. Today we come to urge them to approve this reform and to invite them to serve democracy and to give justice a chance. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvet. Finally, as the third representative of the Parliament of Catalonia, I have the floor, Mr Salvador Milà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will complete the previous speeches. What we have come to defend is common sense. It seems that it is common sense that it is a requirement and not a mere merit to have the necessary skills to properly exercise a public function, to administer justice in the field of a territory with its own language and rights. In the same way that it seems quite natural for a doctor to believe knowledge in anatomy, a clockmaker in spheres or an engineer in mathematics, it seems logical that when a judge wants to exercise in specialized jurisdictions he should prove a certain experience, knowledge and training in the specialty in question, without therefore talking about discrimination between judges or breaking the unity of the judicial career; it is also natural and common sense to ask for knowledge - I repeat, knowledge - and specific training in the language proper to the country where justice is to be administered, and even more to know the laws proper to this territory. [[commercial, social, administrative]] Catalonia, also Euskadi, Galicia or Navarre, all have a legal system of its own, complete, specific and complex, and not only in the field of civil law but also of administrative law. Therefore, we are not talking about regional singularities or specialties, but about a legal system that needs to be sufficiently known and properly implemented. I would like to make clear from here an explicit recognition of the good will of the majority of the judges and magistrates working in Catalonia, who have a very understanding attitude on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the field of law, it is not a question of ex gratifying attitudes, but of the duty of every right. Good will is not enough, there must be good training. Nor should we talk about discrimination between judges, ladies and gentlemen. To demand that a public servant meet the right conditions of knowledge leads us to the sphere of effective judicial protection and the prohibition of defencelessness. This is the key to what we are talking about today, ladies and gentlemen. A person who sees his or her personal, property or family interests affected may be brought to justice in the same way as he or she has lived and expressed his or her problem has to do with effective judicial guardianship. Let us not talk about translators or complementary aids. Are you going to treat us as foreigners in our own country so that we need translators? No, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking about that every citizen's right is the duty of the public servant. It does not involve a simple imposition or a rupture but rather an integration; this is what we are talking about. The same applies to the guarantees that judges have to apply. The recognition of this 95% of judges in Catalonia also requires that we do not have political apprehensions at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to insist on this. We are moving towards a more inclusive model of State; at least it would be a more inclusive State that would assume once and for all what it has written in the articles of the preliminary title of the Constitution, which is a country made up of respected nationalities and regions and where the language we speak is official in its territory. It is not informal, it is not complementary, it is not a specificity or a folkloric singularity that must be encouraged and looked with affection. Catalan in Catalonia, Basque in Euskadi and Galician in Galicia are as official as Spanish in the whole state, so they must have the same level of protection and integration, as is the case with our right. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a particularly delicate time, and you know it. I ask you to accept this proposal for a law of the Parliament of Catalonia, which is modest in its contents, simple, common sense and easy to implement. We are not talking about taking out any level of Catalan for the judges to exercise in Catalonia - or those of Euskadi or Galicia in their respective languages - but simply taking the necessary measures with the help of the Ministry of Justice and the General Council of the Judiciary so that they will have in a few months or weeks some training that will allow them access to this exercise. Let us act in a manner consistent with the Constitution. Whatever the evolution of events, ladies and gentlemen, at the political moment that we are living in Spain and Catalonia, I think they will agree with what the Rector of the University of Lérida, Don Roberto Fernández, said last Sunday in the counterport of the newspaper El País. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not focus on the problem of Catalonia and Spain from the point of view of a story with winners and losers, with Spaniards or not Spaniards, but from the perspective of peoples who can find ways of understanding on the basis of respect for their identities. The constituent of Spain, ladies and gentlemen - this is the House that should take care of it - is plurality. A centralizing, homogenizing Spain is a fallacy that goes against any idea of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that you will take this proposal into consideration and we can say that not all currents run counter to history and that, even in this small area of justice, there is also a positive signal from here that it will be the principle of a radical change that this country needs. Thank you very much, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u7	Position-fixing turn. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Catalan Parliament, who are bringing us an initiative that we welcome from the Galego Nationalist Block and, as I will explain below, we will enthusiastically support. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Linguistic Standardization of Galicia of 1983 establishes the right of citizenship to be served in Galician in its relationship with the Administration of Justice. Despite the years that have passed, the citizens of Galicia cannot exercise this right because of the limited use of our country's own language by judges and prosecutors, judicial secretaries or other professionals in the judiciary, even if 80% of these professionals are of Galician origin. It has recently commemorated the 30th anniversary of the first judicial ruling in Galicia, but only 5% of the judicial rulings in our country are in our language. In fact, the until recently Attorney General of Galicia acknowledged that the situation of Galician in this area is still very precarious and can ensure that the citizen's right to receive this service in his language of choice is not currently guaranteed. Moreover, ex-fiscal Varela assures that the main problem of the use of Galician in justice stems from the linguistic inhibition of professionals who refuse to use this communicative option as a working language before the courts. Although the Galician Administration of Justice is directly responsible for overcoming this inertia which results in the violation of a legally recognized right, there is no less responsibility on the part of the central and autonomous governments, which are doing nothing to create the conditions for law enforcement, for example, ladies and gentlemen, to equip the courts with the necessary technical and human means to enable the normalized use of the languages of each autonomous community. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, the BNG will enthusiastically support this proposal for an organic law which comes to us from the Parliament of Catalonia, because we are convinced and convinced that when the Judicial Power Act establishes the measures envisaged in this proposal, a judiciary whose professionals cannot seek justification for the lack of knowledge of the language will be able to do so for those who request to be treated in their own language. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I say again that from the Galego Nationalist Block with enthusiasm, with great enthusiasm - although there are already five times I say it - we will support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. [[He begins his intervention in Catalan, whose text, which he gives to the 'Diary of Sessions', says the following: A greeting to the people and entities who are here, who have years and days to defend the Catalan language in the field of justice]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the commissioners of the Catalan Parliament demand that the Catalan language be a requirement for judges and magistrates who exercise in Catalonia, and not just a merit, to guarantee the right of citizens to use Catalan also in the judicial system and that Catalan, as the language of Catalonia, is also proper to the judicial system. You already knew this demand, distant and permanent in time, and permanent also your rejection, the rejection of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, at least to this day - and I believe this, since I have come up on many occasions to this rostrum to defend this proposal - but it has not only been rejected, but also belittled. The linguistic normalization of the Catalan language has been underestimated, even by the leadership of the judiciary: colonialist figures, such as the president of the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr. Hernando, sick of Catalanophobia, who argued that speaking Catalan and dancing Seville for him were of equal importance; or as, later, the president of the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr. Carlos Dívar - this person should be ashamed of his actions -, which equated in importance the use of Catalan and Mandinga in the Catalan judicial system. Conclusion: inhibition, at best, when no aggressiveness manifests against the normalization of the Catalan language, with the consequent violation of rights. A few weeks ago, Joan Laporta, a well-known person, was asked to use the Spanish language in a court in Barcelona. If it had not been for a known person, we would not have known of the fact, and would have happened, once again, another case of the many who have already been denounced, for example by the Platform for Language; cases and cases that are repeated, even against the linguistic unity of Catalan. In the Valencia Country there are judges who dare to reject writings addressed to the court in Catalan, warning that they do not accept them since they are not written in Valencian. Look at how stupid, what donkeys they are, even deny - I repeat: deny - the linguistic unity of the Catalan language, which does not, for example, the Spanish Royal Academy. There are cases as flagrant as that of the Ponent Strip, in Aragonese lands, which is only allowed to speak in Catalan in a court. They are true follies, monuments to imbecility, monuments to Catalanophobia. How is it explained, for example, that only 13% of judgments are currently written in Catalan, when in 2007 the percentage was almost 17%? Does the low level of judgements written in Catalan relate only to the level of linguistic competence of judges and magistrates or, rather, is it also the result of a genuine policy of linguistic annihilation? In previous times, when training was claimed, it could be argued that judges and magistrates did not know the language, but once the training phase has passed, how is it explained that the drafting of sentences has fallen into jeopardy? There were 32,479 judgements in 2013, and only 8% in Catalan. The figures indicate an extraordinary regression and show that, only by making Catalan the language of the justice system, will it be possible to achieve its full normalization. This complete normalisation, unfortunately, will again be rejected in this Parliament today. In the same way that language rights cannot be guaranteed without making Catalan its own language and a requirement for judges and magistrates, it cannot be accepted that, even today, judges in Catalonia do not know, at least sufficiently, the proper civil law they must apply. Catalans are not Algerians from the 1950s. Let's see if they find out one last time!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u11	Mr Tardà, you have to finish and, moreover, with correctness.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u12	With all the correction that allows me my diligence. Mr President, I believe that the error is not in me, it is in what is happening here today. As I said, for that reason we have ratified the conviction - and I conclude, Mr President - that all this is possible only through a judiciary of its own which, as far as Catalonia is concerned, can only be located in the future - and I hope that soon - Catalan Republic. And, you, eat it with your bread. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Joint Group, too, I have the floor, Mrs Enbeita.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. [[She begins her intervention in Basque.-Mrs. Serrano Argüello: We don't understand you at all.]] I know you don't understand anything, but I'll translate it, there's no problem. I have said that the Basques and Basques, like the Catalans, thank the Parliament of Catalonia for bringing this debate to this House because we are tired of considering ourselves second-rate citizens before the judicial administration. It is impossible to be part of a judicial process, however simple it is, in Basque, in our language, and I think the same is true in Catalonia or Galicia. Sometimes not even the forms to be filled out are in both languages, in Spanish or in Basque and, if not, the procurators or judges or procurators or lawyers of their own accord fail, but there is always some obstacle to ensuring that our linguistic rights are not respected. All this without taking into account that, in the end, a number of laws are published only in Spanish. The Basques, Catalans or Galicians have the right to care for us, protect us, defend us or even judge us in our own language, because it is in that language in which we live and in which we have the problems that lead us to the judicial administration. The Charter of Regional Languages of the European Union is being skipped in the Spanish State. Law 6/1985 deprives us of our own linguistic rights and nothing is done to change that law. Castilian is imposed as the only language in the legal administration, and I say that it is imposed as the only language, because if none of the parties is against it, we know in what ends: either you mark a Garitano or you end up having the trial absolutely in Castilian. We once again claim that for us Basque is our national language, that of our nation; that is why we want to live in Basque and it seems that the only way to achieve this will be to have our own nation with our own judicial system, because it does not make much sense that we are defending our linguistic rights in Madrid and in Castilian. Ladies and gentlemen, do not tell us again about the doctors about whether we prefer good judges or Basque judges, because seeing the last arrests of the young Basques simply by devoting themselves to politics, in the end one stops believing in justice, the good judges and the Basque judges. We don't have a bit of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Enbeita. For the Vasco PNV Group, Mr Olabarría has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of Parliament, I welcome you from the seat, not because of lack of respect and lack of relevance for the proposal you are presenting to us, but because of problems of personal mobility. Mr President, we will support this initiative with the same enthusiasm as Mrs Fernández, who has done so for fivefold. We will do so for several reasons, for reasons of legality and for reasons of political legitimacy; political legitimacy, they have absolutely, and legality, too. From that perspective, Mr President, there are a number of requirements in the legal system of the State which makes us think that in the field of the Administration of Justice and in others, although I do not dare to say that this State is failed, it is a State which has many rulings. One of the most relevant may be that of linguistic normalization, that of the co-officiality of languages and their use before the public authorities of the State. It's a constitutional mandate and it's a statutory mandate. You have quoted the precepts of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia which legitimizes you to address yourself also, and specifically in one of them, to the Judicial Power in the co-official languages, in either of the two existing in Catalonia; the same is true in Euskadi and the same is true in Galicia. They have cited Article 33 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia; they have cited Article 33.2, which specifically refers to the possibility of documentary and oral access - bear in mind that in judicial matters the principles of immediacy and orality are those that characterise ontologically any kind of process - and Article 102 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. They are three statutory precepts that develop the Constitution, which all constitute the block of constitutionality and legitimize to act from a technical perspective - you have done it in the form of a proposal of organic law - that is correctly articulated and that has a foundation of absolute legitimacy, as I said to you. Why are legal problems referring to justice correctly identified? Because you guys identify them all. First, the deficit arising from article 231 of the Organic Law of Judicial Power of 1985, which states that Spanish is the language of the Administration of Justice. What do you mean, Spanish is the language of the administration of justice? Any co-official language shall be the language of the Administration of Justice. This has been partially corrected by another set of precepts of the Organic Law of the Judiciary itself, by articles 110, 216 bis, 341, 431 and 450 and regulations of the General Council of the Judiciary itself issued in the exercise of its regulatory powers, devaluing the possibility of using co-official languages different from or different from Spanish, because the knowledge of these languages for those who impart justice and for those who accede to the Administration of Justice is considered only a merit, not a requirement or a profile of access to the post that from the perspective of the subjective scope that you propose is almost universal. Well, they're missing one thing I'm going to comment on! Now Mr. Jané, I and other spokespersons are discussing a partial reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and there is a new figure that is incorporated that is that of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, whose fundamental function is to direct the judicial office. Perhaps by the time of the presentation and elaboration of this proposal of organic law you did not know this new figure that is in this draft partial reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and could be incorporated, if it is the object of acceptance, in the form of amendments to a subjective field that is of a universal nature. It refers to judges and judges; it refers to prosecutors, also asking for correction of article 36.6 of the Statute of the Prosecutor's Office of 1981; it refers to the Jury Court - also jurors must have sufficient knowledge of the co-official language in those trials held with this type of court, with the jury court -; it refers to judicial secretaries, whose powers are already jurisdictional or quasi-jurisdictional; and it refers, as is obvious to staff in the service of the Administration of Justice, to what the Constitutional Court judgement 56/1991 considers to be personnel in the service of the Administration of Justice. From this perspective, from the subjective perspective of the proposition, it is universal. And from the material perspective it is, too, because it refers to all possibilities in which knowledge of the language is legitimately required, just as it must be legally required also through the reforms of the laws we have cited. It refers to access to judicial places located in any community with co-official languages; it refers to access to the temporary provision system; it refers to the commissioning of services; it refers to the commissioning of commissions from these places. From this perspective it should also be pointed out that you articulate very correctly the points of connection of the competent court which must or may also be used with legal legitimacy and with material legitimacy the co-official language or Catalan, Basque or Galician, even if it is located in a place of the territory where these languages are not co-official, provided that the facts causing the process have occurred wherever a co-official language of these characteristics has been made or exists, points of connection which even arrive at the possibility of communicating in aid or for any other necessity with other courts located in places where there are no co-official languages, but which can also be addressed in Catalan, Basque or Galicia by providing translation services which will have to be provided by the Ministry of Justice or by the autonomous communities, as the case may be, by empowering as translators any official of the Administration of Justice with sufficient knowledge or translators of those regulated by the Organic Law of the Judiciary itself and by the regulations of the Judiciary itself. I share your reservations regarding the use of translators. There are rulings of the Constitutional Court that do not state this strictly but imply that the use of translators violates the principle of immediacy. As we mentioned earlier, orality and immediacy are the fundamental characteristics of the process and immediacy breaks down when an interposed person has to perform a translation work that often even hurts, is done poorly, when the person who translates does not have sufficient legal knowledge for complex lawsuits that require sufficient knowledge of the language. They do well in every sense, but in case by chance or fate could be dealt with as a proposal for law - it seems that it will be no, which we are not surprised at; we are already vaccinated on this circumstance of the non-systematic majority group to accept proposals as weighted, as legitimate and as reasonable as these - would indicate the relevance perhaps of incorporating, through an amendment, lawyers in the service of the Administration of Justice. Moreover, it is an outstanding issue to put an end to this kind of diglosy that exists particularly in the Administration of Justice rather than in other branches of the State, because the Administration of Justice has traditionally been the most refractory to assume requirements of the Spanish Constitution in the matter of co-officiality, statutory requirements, that is, of the block of constitutionality, and requirements of ordinary laws that provide for norms or laws of linguistic normalization that exist in our communities. All this, supported by the devaluation of the co-official languages through all the precepts of the Organic Law of the Judiciary that I have quoted to them and, above all - and most seriously - the consideration as only merit the knowledge of the co-official language or of the civil law own or of the outside law wherever it exists. This is a democratic deficit, a democratic atrophy that we have to overcome someday. When? Similarly, where there are sufficient professionals in the Administration of Justice to be able to meet the requirements of what constitutes a constitutionalized subjective right of the litigants or citizens, which is to address the Administration of Justice in the language they consider relevant. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to say good afternoon to the representatives of the Parliament of Catalonia, but from here, and to say it in a colloquial way, I have to point out that my group cannot support this proposal to amend organic law because it seems to us to be a magnificent representation of the law of funnel. That is to say, you propose on the basis of a theory of linguistic rights to make legislation that expels non-Catalan-speaking jurists from the Administration of Justice in Catalonia. Moreover, right now Mr Olabarría has spread widely in the consequences of the adoption of a similar law, and not only would they achieve that, which is already directly against equality and against the jurisdictional unity of the State, against the possibility that any citizen within the territory of that citizenship will have equal rights, because this eliminates them, do not deceive you. If you claim that sufficient knowledge of the accredited Catalan is an indispensable requirement for being a judge and intervening in the Catalan Administration of Justice, it will also be a requirement of passage, as Mr Olabarría has told us, to be a juror. Moreover, as these jurors, such trials or courts would have to do with courts outside Catalonia, what they would achieve would be that the Catalan, the Basque and the Galician were official languages of the entire Catalan Administration of Justice, but the Castilian in Catalonia would not, because at the end of what it is about is insisting on the famous policy of normalization, which is not a euphemism, a linguistic attribute to define what is nothing more than to use an absolute fallacy, that of the law of languages, which have no right - none; nor what I use now or what you use when you speak in Catalan or in any other language - to carry the only thing that really matters in democracy, which is legal equality, equal rights, equal opportunities for citizens. This is the only thing that really matters. It does not cease to be curious that in a community where there have been as many corruption scandals as it is Catalonia, and obviously because of a malfunctioning functioning of the Justice Administration, the problem is this, that there are few judgments in Catalan - Mr Tardà has said before -. But, of course, if you read the explanatory statement, the preamble to this bill, anyone who did not live in Spain would believe that in Catalonia it is forbidden to use Catalan in trials. That's what you get from this. The invocation of such an elementary minimum document as the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages is of impressive intellectual dishonesty. How can they claim or say that what is needed in Spain by Catalan speakers, Basque speakers, Galicians or any user of an official language other than Spanish is the protection of a European letter of minimums when in Spain many years ago this is not only overcome, but in fact the problem is of reverse gender? You have just now been affected by a Supreme Court ruling - the umpteenth, which will undoubtedly have no political consequences - which is demanding that there must be at least 25% of the teaching offer in Spanish. That is to say, you have managed to expel the Castilian and, therefore, to place him in an objectively disadvantaged position, of negative discrimination against children of Spanish-speaking families in Catalonia, which is an aberration and I will not tire of saying so. It is an aberration against children and their rights to equality in the name of an alleged and false right of languages to be protected, because that does not exist, and less in a democratic culture, and now they intend to do the same in the administration of justice. As they have been doing so well so far, neither scandalizes me nor draws my attention, but don't worry because we're here to tell you. One thing is that in the Administration of Justice in Catalonia the number of judgements in Catalan is unsatisfactory for their aspirations. They will have to talk to the judges and the Justice Administration to see if they believe that something can be done, as long as it does not have to do with a retaliation, an offence or a control of justice. I know that they do not care because all parties, except mine, have entered the distribution of the General Council of the Judiciary and want to repeat it, since it is autonomous, in similar organs. They believe that political parties must safeguard the Administration of Justice, which is another democratic barbarity but, of course, come up with that claim that language law, which in any case is a subjective right that has to do with co-officiality, must become an elimination of the right of Spanish speakers to compete on an equal footing in Catalonia or in any other community with two official languages - i.e. bilingual - to be members of the Administration of Justice, simply has no support, except one, initial, which is the one that goes to the origin of their presentation, which is in the first paragraph, and I will read it so that I can understand well what exactly I mean. It says the proposal you approved: 'In order to give effect to the linguistic rights of citizens, it is necessary that public servants who provide services in an autonomous community with their own language attest to the knowledge of the language. This is not only due to the official nature of the language, but also to the principle of the effectiveness of the Administration, which, without doubt, cannot carry out its activity properly if it does not know something as essential and elementary as the language of the territory'. It sounds very assertive, very round, but it really has neither feet nor head. It is a fallacy from the beginning to the end, and it is not enough to use logically-looking linguistic ligaments for things that make no sense to have it. In a bilingual community, where there are also different linguistic communities because not all members of that bilingual community have the same ability or capacity to use either of the two official languages, it cannot be said that the knowledge of a language, which is already decided to be the language itself - indeed you believe it to be the Catalan - is the only thing that matters, while the Spanish is not the language itself. That's not true. Spanish and Catalan are the languages of Catalonia, exactly the same as in the Basque Country, Galicia and the rest of the Spanish state with two languages. It is therefore impossible to prove what has not been proved or demonstrated and from a fallacy to build a legal, political and democratic argument because that goes against the essence of democracy. If you believe that there is a right that is mocked, you have to show what that right has been mocked and how it is to be improved, but what you do is the opposite. They say: There is a right that we can prove without any kind of argument, that there is a single language of our own and that this language of ours has to be the subject of special protection, so special that it even nullifies the personal rights of citizens, because a citizen who does not have sufficient knowledge of his own language cannot be a judge in Catalonia. That's what this bill says, no more or less. He can't even be a jury, we've just been told. And if he is also a person who does not know Catalan well enough, he will be tried in a language other than his own, thereby completely reversing what was denounced. They have done so in education, they have adopted the educational franchise: the mother tongues must be expelled from education in order to impose the language of the State, which in this case would be Catalan. It is an aberration and of course - I told you before and we keep it - we will not consent. Obviously we are not going to do anything but explain why this is a legal, political and democratic aberration, we are going to do it, have no doubt. If you want - which I know is what you want - to expel the Spanish from Catalonia - which is one of the languages of Catalonia - from the Administration of Justice to reserve the Administration of Justice exclusively to those who have sufficient control of Catalan, what you are doing is nothing more than to end the equality of rights, the equality of judicial protection, the equality of opportunities and of course the legal equality of citizens. And if then what they intend to do is to achieve the same effect as in education, say it clearly, we are talking not about rights but about power, about power in the rawest and most material sense of the matter, about who rules here, who judges here who, who is better disposed to be judged and under what conditions. Because, as I said before, if it were true that in Spain it was forbidden to judge, to testify in court or to make judgments in Catalan, I would agree with you, but you know it is completely false. The problem is statistical. For some reason, in which I am not going to enter, the number of judgments in Catalan decreases, but then do not say that there is a situation of de facto prohibition, they will have a different problem, exactly the same as with other social uses. And the so-called policy of normalization is nothing more than interventionism of an authoritarian state in the particular lives of citizens, who are even told in what language they have to speak, even if they prefer to speak in another. And they are forced by the way of coercion, saying to them: if you don't want to use this language I don't care because I'm going to force you to use it in education, in health and in justice. I mean, you're a second-rate citizen, you don't have equal rights with me, which I'm in charge here. This is what happens with this proposal. So I am very sorry; do not expect any less understanding or support from us for something that I finally call a democratic aberration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Mr Coscubiela has the floor for the Plural Left Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Pronounce words in Catalan. Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a language conflict between the Spanish and the other official languages of autonomous communities, it is a matter of the rights of the people, of the citizens, although the People's Party has committed itself to the contrary and to constantly fueling a false conflict with the Spanish in Catalonia, curiously whenever things go wrong politically, whenever it has to cover up a corruption scandal or whenever it has to cover up the consequences of its economic policies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about the rights, the linguistic rights of the citizens of Catalonia, the Basques, the Galicians, the Valencians... to be treated in their own language, by the way, in the official language of the territory in which they live, a small data that seems to some forget. Rights that are formally but cannot be exercised because, as comrade Salvador Milà has said very clearly, if the person who has a right has a public servant who does not have the obligation to guarantee that right, the right becomes wet paper, and that is what is happening right now in the field of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia, for example. We are talking about the right to linguistic availability, which depends on the public employees of the Administration of Justice being able to understand - there is no need for them to have Catalan Philology - to understand. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about rights. Mr Martínez Gorriarán, if I am a Catalan citizen, who I have the right to speak in Catalan because it is an official language in Catalonia and I address a judge and that judge does not know how to understand me in Catalan, I have to change my language. So, my right to what is it? Nothing. Why? It is not a question of the Spanish judges changing their language, but of fulfilling their obligation to understand the law and to understand the language of the country in which they are working. [[Applauds]] Does anyone think, for example, that a judge in the Italian Republic does not know Italian? Or that a German federal judge doesn't know German? Yes, of course, you are already smiling, Mr Gorriaran, because for you this is different, of course, because in Spain with which you know Spanish is enough. So, what does the officiality of Catalan consist of if that officiality cannot be exercised? On a wet paper, and that's what it's about. Unfortunately, the problem for those who think so is that they do not really assume that we are in a State of a plurilingual and plurinational nature because they continue with their old and obsolete idea of a State to which only one language and one nation belongs. And that continues to happen in the 21st century. You have the concept of that imperial state, monolithic, harmonizing, of your ancestors. Sometimes they try to impose it without notice of care and others, to the beast. The fact that care is not noticed comes - you will remember - from the instruction of the prosecutor of the Council of Castile of 29 January 1716: The sixth, it will be possible to prevent the care of entering the Spanish language in that country. The importance of making the language uniform has always been recognized as great, and is a sign of the domination or superiority of the princes or nations. And it goes on: But as it seems to each nation that it points to nature its particular language, it has much to overcome in this art, and more so when the genius of the nation, like that of the Catalans, is tenacious, haughty and lover of the things of their country, and to promote that it seems convenient to give instructions and providences very tempered and disguised, so that the effect is achieved without notice of care. For God's sake, take a little care of Philip V! Because you do it to the brute; to the Wert, it would be said now. [[Applauds]] A lo Wert, which aims to Spanishize Catalan children. Only in this way can we understand, for example, that offensive that you are launching against Catalan in Catalan school. In addition, repeatedly lying; a non-existent linguistic conflict is invented. At present there is a divergence of how many tens or hundreds of families have exercised this right in relation to the 750,000 children, adolescents and young people enrolled in compulsory education. I have to tell you, for no one to manipulate my words, that for a servant, and generally in Catalonia, even if only a family and a child exercised that right, they have the same right as if they did one hundred thousand, of course. That is why the Catalan education system, teachers and teachers, who have much more common sense than Mr Wert, have guaranteed these linguistic rights for those who request them and have put in place the mechanisms so that anyone who wants can be fully or partially educated with Spanish as a vehicle language. But that's not what you're trying to do. Mr Gorriaran, you have not read the Supreme Court judgment; the quote, but you have not read it. What does the judgment of the Supreme Court say by ratifying the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia? That it is not enough for the child or family requesting this right to have it guaranteed, no. It requires that in the class and in the school of that child, all, 25% of the education be given in Spanish. That is, to guarantee the right of a child or girl, who has it, a language is imposed that has not been chosen by the rest of the children and families. You do not go by law, you go by cultural, linguistic and national imposition. Unfortunately it is, and you have to tell it, because what we are discussing today has a lot to do with those policies that you are practicing. And this brings us to the next snag. Do you realize the legal and political sluggishness that means that judges who sentence the compulsory 25 % of Spanish in schools in the name of citizens' linguistic rights are sometimes the same judges who do not match the linguistic rights of citizens who are going to ask for justice? Could there be any greater aberration in that sense? Although, as Salvador Milà has already said, there is generally a willingness of judges to enter that process and many make the effort. But it is that the right to speak in Catalan before the Administration of Justice is not a ex gratia right that one has to ask of the judge in charge, it is a constitutionally protected right because that consists of the officiality of Catalan in Catalonia or of Basque in Euskadi. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been obsessed for many years. Another historical quote that I think will refresh your memory of where your ideology originates. Remember. In this case are the instructions issued by the Council of Castile on 13 June 1715:... with regard to the practice and form of civil and criminal proceedings: with which in the Royal Audience and before the coroners the proceedings are followed in the Spanish language and in the other lower courts the use of Catalan is allowed for the time being, until the scribes have been instructed in the Spanish language. He continues:... ordering at the same time that in all schools of first letters and grammar no books printed in Catalan are allowed, write or speak in it within the schools and exceptionally - that is - learn the Christian doctrine in our language, which by these and other gentle means will become common to the Castilian in the Principality. Well, it may seem that far away but with you three hundred years it seems like nothing, a second, because unfortunately you continue to live in that reality. In that sense let me point out one thing to you: ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have listened to me for four years - and I am very proud of that - to have defended in Spanish the rights of Catalan and Spanish workers against exploiters who speak Spanish, Catalan - by the way - also or English. To exploit workers the language used does not matter, it is indifferent, it is the least. For with the same pride as I defend in Spanish the rights of our working people I have to tell you that I am not, we are not, is not the Catalan society willing to accept that they prevent us from living in our language. We're not going to accept it! You've tried it all the way, and you haven't done it! If you have decided that the Spanish State as you see it is incompatible with respect for plurilingualism and plurinationality, what is left is not Catalan or plurilingualism, what is left is you. If the Spanish State or those who govern it have decided that plurinationality and multilingualism are not to be found within it, what is going to jump in the air is not going to be Catalan, it is going to be the Spanish State. You guys are the same. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. Mr Jané has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Illustrious Member of Parliament Elena Ribera, illustrious Member of Parliament Gemma Calvet, honourable Member Salvador Milà, welcome to the Congress of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the Catalonian Parliament proposes what must be not only the observance of a rule adopted by these General Courts, the current Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, but also the fulfilment of the necessary exercise of the linguistic rights of citizens. We are therefore dealing with a debate of significance because we are dealing with a debate on the enforcement of rights. And, first of all, I ask Mr Martínez Gorriarán to withdraw his unacceptable allusion to the practice in Catalonia - he said - of educational franchising. Take that word off. We don't deserve it, Mr. Martínez Gorriarán; we don't deserve it. The struggle for democracy and freedom in Catalonia and Spain as a whole, that struggle for democracy does not deserve the democratic exercise of institutions such as the Generalitat to receive this trivialization of adjectivating it as an educational franchise. [[Applauds]] We do not allow it because it is an insult to democratic institutions and we therefore ask you to withdraw it. As we also ask you, Mr Gorriarán, to withdraw, because it is also an offence, it is an offence to the Parliament of Catalonia and it is an offence to this debate, which is intended to use the adjective of intellectual dishonesty. What the representatives of the Parliament of Catalonia have proposed to us is not an act of intellectual dishonesty, it is an act of compliance with the legal order, of compliance with what should be a situation of normality in the use of the various official languages. Because, indeed, in Catalonia, as in other territories, there is an official language of its own and the Spanish language, which is also official, both languages have full legal and statutory recognition, and in those territories where we are lucky enough to have more than one official language, if we want a normal use of both languages, it is necessary for all public servants to know the same ones in order to be able to give an adequate response to any citizen who speaks freely, without imposition, to those public administrations or to the judiciary in one of those official languages. And what is the reality that is not normal? It is not normal that, according to the latest statistical figures, only 12.2% of every 100 judgments issued in Catalonia are given in Catalan and 87.8% are given in Spanish. This situation does not correspond at all to the reality of the use of both languages in other areas of public administration. Therefore, something is failing when these final figures are given. Convergence i Unió will vote in favour of what the Catalonian Parliament is asking for today, but it will not vote in favour of only Convergence i Unió, will do so by the vast majority of elected members of this House in Catalonia: of 47 elected members in Catalonia, only 11 have announced that they will vote against this Parliament's bill and the remaining 36 will vote in favour. Therefore, there is a large majority of Catalonia's political representatives who consider that we must change the current regulatory framework, the current Organic Law of the Judiciary to comply, nothing more and nothing less, with what the Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy itself foresees. I will read you only one article of this statute, 102, which has already passed the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which is an existing article. Article 102 of the Statute of Catalonia of 2006 reads as follows: Judges, judges and prosecutors who occupy a place in Catalonia shall certify an adequate and sufficient knowledge of Catalan to give effect to the linguistic rights of citizens in the form and with the scope determined by law. This is what the statute requires, an adequate and sufficient knowledge. And we add: a knowledge from the adoption of the new law. It is not a question of going against anyone, it is a question of respecting the rights of any lawyer who already has a place in Catalonia; we respect them fully, but from a given moment we have to find in the Organic Law of the Judiciary that the merit is not sufficient, that a requirement is necessary and that a requirement that can be applied in a transitional way is also necessary, with due caution in order to - as the proposed law also says -, through a gradual training system - other spokespersons have also said - be able to transmit to those who are going to serve the Judiciary in Catalonia those knowledge of the language and of their own law that are sufficient to enable them to provide their services with due respect for the linguistic law of a citizen addressed to them in Catalan, just as the linguistic rights of a citizen addressed to them in the Spanish language are being fully respected. We therefore simply ask for normality; we do not ask for impositions, we ask for transitionality in order to be able to implement the proposal put forward today by the Parliament of Catalonia and we ask for consistency from these General Courts. We adopted a Statute of Autonomy in 2006 and appealed to the Constitutional Court, but the Court has not liquidated with its judgment article 102 or article 33 of the Statute, which manifests itself in the same way: to believe that it is possible to demand an adequate and sufficient level of knowledge. We are not going - I repeat - against anyone; we want to be respectful of the linguistic rights of all, but we also want that when the final statistics reflect the use of languages in Catalonia they do not deviate so much from what is happening in society as a whole. That only 13% of judgements in Catalan does not reflect that adequate and sufficient level of knowledge of both languages that should have those who deliver justice in Catalonia. They are both official and therefore deserve the protection of this House and of the whole legal system. It is true that nothing is achieved with legal impositions and that the laws are also not the panacea to achieve normalization from day to day, but it is also true that we need to modify the laws so that gradually what is normal in society as a whole is normal in the Judiciary in Catalonia. That is why, with this constructive attitude of respect for both official languages, but above all of respect for the linguistic rights of citizens, whether they speak Spanish or speak Catalan, we ask the majority group to take this proposal for an organic law into consideration. They have the opportunity to join the great majority of elected members in Catalonia who are in this Congress and who today will vote in favour of the consideration. I would even ask you to take it into consideration and to make adjustment amendments if you do not share the literality of what the Catalonian Parliament is proposing today by 100 percent, but let us not give that vast majority of representatives of Catalonia that today is in favour of this necessary normality a door with an opposite vote. We are still in time to join together to make normal what is normal in society as a whole and above all to respect the official languages, the Spanish language and the Catalan language. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. Mr Sáez Jubero has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to welcome the presence of the Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, Rivera, Calvet and Milà - benvinguts - who have been commissioned to present the proposal for a law which seeks to amend the Organic Law of the Judiciary and other related rules to guarantee linguistic rights in Catalonia, a proposal for a law which, by the way, was supported in the Catalan Parliament of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Catalonia. I will start by referring to what I believe is the underlying problem in this debate, which is none other than that, despite the degree of protection that the co-official languages other than Spanish have in our country, there is no full recognition in practice of the multilingual reality of Spain. Some recent examples are the intolerance with which some treated the coach of the Eibar at the press conference for initially answering the journalists accredited in Basque to do so in Spanish or the incomprehensible controversy caused by the Spanish consul in Perpignan who, far from being proud that Catalan is an increasingly prestigious language used in some areas of southern France, has suggested that the municipal authorities change the Perpinyà brand to the Catalan one by Perpignan to the French one. In addition, it has sought to justify this by arguing that it would attract more Spanish tourists. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem. After more than thirty years of democracy we have not managed to make Catalan, Galician and Basque feel full like Spanish languages. This is the sin of origin that prevents a satisfactory solution and finally hinders the full normality of use and prestige of our languages. If we add to this the political myopia or bad faith of the Government of the People's Party when it questions the linguistic model in Catalonia, it results that, far from advancing in normality and linguistic coexistence, there is a clear retrogression and use of these languages with an undisguised political purpose. In a situation of full normality it should not be strange that minimum knowledge of Catalan, Galician or Basque could be taught in all schools in Spain and that optionally these languages could be learned in any school in Spain. This would make a powerful contribution to the Spanish people's view of all our languages as their own heritage and not as an element of differentiation. However, the Government of Spain, through the new Organic Law for the Improvement of Educational Quality, Lomce, goes in the opposite direction when it insists on attacking the current model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia, a model of success that has made it possible to use the language as an element of social cohesion, as an element of integration and not of segregation, and that it was the result of a broad political consensus to which we Catalan Socialists contribute and in which it emphasized that she was a Member of this House and of the Parliament of Catalonia, Mrs Marta Mata, since the movements of pedagogical renewal. [[Applauds]] However, the harmful Tandem Wert-Gomendio continues to insist on introducing elements of destabilization into the language learning model in Catalonia, this past week with the introduction of an appeal against the rules of pre-registration in Catalonia with which they intend to guarantee the vehicle use of Spanish through quotas and continue to question the system of linguistic immersion. It is difficult to consider that the commitment of the People's Government does not have a strictly political motivation, as if a greater or lesser acceptance of political ideas could be derived from linguistic habits. That's a terrible mistake. If we analyze the situation of the use of Catalan in the Administration of Justice, which is the reason for the presentation of this proposal of law, it must be concluded that there is a stagnation - but a retrogression - in its use and that it is not generally consistent with its use in other public administrations. This is largely due to the legal impossibility of requiring the knowledge of the language of the national bodies that provide their services in the Administration of Justice in Catalonia. Catalan, Basque, Galician, are not on an equal footing with Spanish in the Administration of Justice in those communities where they are co-official languages. That is the case in Catalonia and, therefore, our parliamentary group shares to a large extent the purpose of the proposed law which we are debating today, and especially the terms in which its explanatory statement is being drafted. That is why I say that our parliamentary group will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. In fact, we have already had the opportunity to set our position on another proposal for a law which, in similar terms, was presented by the Catalan Parliamentary Group and which we discussed on 24 September 2013 in this House. [[Convergence and Union]] Also on that occasion we were in favour of taking it into consideration, although the majority of the People's Parliamentary Group rejected it. The reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, also of the Organic Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office and of the Law of the Jury, is now again interested in transferring the forecasts of adequate and sufficient knowledge of the Catalan language and of its own law for the provision of the public service of justice in Catalonia, as provided for in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia in force. The proposed law introduces through the amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and the Organic Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office the need for knowledge of the co-official language as a requirement. However, the introduction of the merit requirement under the Organic Law of the Judiciary and the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office, according to the opinion of our parliamentary group, might not exactly reconcile the guarantee of the linguistic rights of citizens with the principle of unity of the Judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, a possible reform of the law can and must introduce changes and new formulas, but not necessarily that of the requirement; perhaps one of them could be the replacement of the knowledge of the language as merit by the one of preferential merit for obtaining places of judge or prosecutor in Catalonia. For what we have said, it is relevant for us to take account of this proposal for a law and, as the spokesman of the Catalan Parliamentary Group has said, to debate and agree on the parliamentary procedure of consensus formulas to resolve this certain situation of abnormality that remains in the Catalan Administration of Justice in relation to the knowledge and use of the co-official languages. [[Convergence and Union]] Obviously, other autonomous communities are not alien to this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to find a solution which will enable us to prove that we have sufficient knowledge of the Catalan language of judges and prosecutors and of our own law. There is a need for a reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary and the Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which gives form and content to the corresponding evidence of accreditation of language knowledge and of one's own right as a consequence of the right to effective judicial protection and, of course, as a right to guarantee the rights of citizens. This is a statutory provision validated by the decision of the Constitutional Court which, although amended other articles related to the Administration of Justice in Catalonia, nevertheless maintained this and, therefore, is a block of constitutionality. The law can and must be reformed in this sense, without prejudice - the spokesman of Convergence i Unió has also pointed out - that a period of adaptation can be allowed so that judges, magistrates or prosecutors who do not believe can achieve sufficient linguistic competence or knowledge of their own law. Similarly, a solution should be sought to facilitate communications, minimizing the needs of translations. If this bill were to be taken into account in relation to language rights, our parliamentary group would also raise the need to comply - certainly no other parliamentary group has said so - with other approved provisions of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia which introduce, for example, autonomous justice councils as devolved bodies of the General Council of the Judiciary, dual-institution cassational functions to the higher courts of justice, as well as the autonomous management of the material resources of the Administration of Justice in those autonomous communities that want to exercise these powers in accordance with the approved statutes. In this last parliamentary process, ladies and gentlemen, some of the bills that the Government intended to pass in the area of justice have been revised, trying rightly to find a greater consensus beyond the majority of the Group of the European People's Party. It may be a good time to put forward a reform of the Organic Law on the Judiciary in one of the aspects proposed in the bill and in those that could be added by the parliamentary groups in the debate. This possibility would make it possible to rectify once again the wrong reformism of the stage of Minister Gallardón, which was unable to bring about debates and consensus on the reforms to be introduced in the field of justice. In particular, and with regard to the amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, it was a reform, as you will recall, Mr Castillo, without consensus, attached to the system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary and disregarding the possibility of introducing in that organic law reforms such as those that we have been discussing this afternoon. The presence of the commissioners of the Parliament of Catalonia and the setting of a position on the proposal for a law allows my parliamentary group to recall the need to adapt our organic law and the Administration of Justice to the reality of our State of self-government, with a reform more in line with our constitutional model consisting of a real decentralization of the so-called administration of the Administration of Justice and a devolution of the General Council of the Judiciary to the autonomous councils of justice where it is contemplated by the statutes in force. All this, of course, with the limitations established by the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which we comply with, and which provide for its hierarchical subordination to the council itself. These and some other elements could be incorporated into the debate on this bill which, as I have said, seems to my parliamentary group to be relevant, despite having some objection which I have already allowed myself to point out but which we would be happy to discuss and agree on later in the parliamentary procedure with the rest of the groups. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament in Catalonia, our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Thank you very much, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Sáez Jubero. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u26	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to welcome the Members of the Catalan Parliament. Welcome to Congress of Deputies. For the People's Group the first thing, the basic thing, the essential thing, is that the judges, the judges, the prosecutors, the judicial secretaries of our country are the best connoisseurs of the law and the law, and I say from this rostrum that they are, together with the rest of the agents who operate in justice. Our priority, the priority of the People's Group, is to have the best capacities and excellence to enforce and enforce the law and sentences. [[Applauds]] But in the debate we have talked little about the substance and much about politics. Let us talk about politics, and I want to talk about rights, I want to talk about freedom and I want to talk about equality. I want to explain from this rostrum to those who don't know me that I love Spain. Yes, a Catalan loves Spain, she loves Spain. From my deep Catalanity I love Spain, and I do it without complexes, with normality, because for me it is a double feeling, inclusive, complementary, shared, that brings me everything and I have nothing left. [[Applauds]] I think, feel, speak and visc in Catalan, that is the best way to feel Spanish. But I also feel bilingual, and for me being bilingual is a lot of luck, an advantage, a fortune, a patrimony, a gift from my parents, with a lot of effort, and a gift from my country. That is why I want to tell you today, from my utmost respect and from my shared feeling of Catalan, Spanish and bilingual, that I am tired, but not exhausted, that it offends me, but that it does not hurt me that the nationalism you represent wants to condemn for the hundredth time my beloved Catalonia, Catalonia of all, linguistic poverty and monolingualism. You want to raise new physical and linguistic walls in Europe, when in the 21st century there is no longer a physical or linguistic wall in Europe. In an increasingly open, modern, globalized and advanced world, we cannot entrust the future to exclusive, rupturistic and monolingual projects. The world of globalization doesn't ask you where you come from or what language you speak, but where you want to get to, and it asks you to be the best prepared, the best trained, the best deserving and the best connoisseur of your subject. That is what I want for the judges in Catalonia, to be the best, without limits and without impositions; with normality, Mr Jané, with normality. Of course we exist!, and I answer to the deputy of the Catalan Parliament of Republican Left and the deputy of Convergence and Union. Of course we exist! You said, "We don't exist. Of course we exist! What am I doing here? I am a Catalan, and we also exist Catalans in the People's Group. I'd just miss it! Catalonia is not only of the nationalists, Catalonia is of all, of the 7.5 million Catalans and of all the other Spaniards. I'd just miss it! [[Applauds]] Do not forget that Catalonia is not your exclusive heritage, but everyone's. The MP of Convergence and Union said that it is impossible for them to express themselves in Catalan in the Administration of Justice. I express myself every day in my mother tongue, father, of my grandparents, of my great-grandfathers everywhere in Catalonia, in my private life, in my family life, in my working life, in the public administration. It is a lie that one cannot express oneself in Catalan. Maybe it's that you're afraid of freedom. Let's talk about freedom. As you have heard, I have grown up in an environment of 100 per cent Catalan; my mother tongue, father tongue, grandparents and great-grandfathers is Catalan. My four-year-old son also grows up in a 100 percent Catalan environment, and my son needs and I want him to learn Catalan just as well as I do. But I also sincerely believe that my son does not need linguistic immersion in Catalan. What my son needs justly is linguistic immersion in Spanish, English, German, Chinese, French and the languages that are put before me. You condemn people who cannot afford a private school to monolingualism, Mr Coscubiela, you who always stand up as a defender of people in need. We all defend people in need. Nationalism condemns people who cannot pay a private to monolingualism, while the rich, President Mas, Mr Montilla, have their children in private trilinguals. This is the truth. I just want to talk about freedom. Let us choose freely and not with imposition my son's education, not his, mine. [[Applauds]] And let me choose freely - of course there is Catalan and Spanish in Catalonia! - the co-official language I want to use in Catalonia and in the Administration of Justice. Why are you so afraid of freedom? Perhaps because you only bet on rupture, lonely path, discord, tension, division, intolerance to bilingualism, intolerance to plurilingualism, intolerance to which you think differently, intolerance to freedom, intolerance to Spain? For my group the answers of nationalisms are wrong, because they respond with nostalgia, past and manipulated history. As a Catalan, I am proud to form the People's Group because we defend individual freedom and equality, the basic principles of the rule of law and democracy. I don't want to run away from democracy. Outside of it there is only chaos and totalitarianism. Totalitarianisms in the past have always based their policy on the single language, ethnicity and looking for a culprit. I want to defend equality and freedom. These are the basic principles of our rule of law. The position on the substance of our parliamentary group is very clear: we are in favour of merit and not imposition, as is currently the case with judges, prosecutors, court secretaries and judges who access the judiciary. Today we have not talked about article 3 of the Constitution or article 231 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary. It has not been said that article 3 of the Constitution recognizes the richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain, which is a cultural heritage that will be the subject of special respect and protection. Article 231 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary guarantees the use of co-official languages in those communities where they exist, while the right to effective judicial protection is guaranteed. I have been a practicing lawyer for fifteen years and have been able to do so in Catalan and Spanish and I have never had any impediments. I have used it on the basis of my clients' request. I have also seen that no one has mentioned the constitutional doctrine established in this area, from which the right of the parties to express themselves in the procedural proceedings in the language of the autonomous community is unquestionably apparent. It is a reality the right to use Catalan in the Administration of Justice in Catalonia and, therefore, there is no problem in the judicial offices of Catalonia. Perhaps the problem is for you, who are afraid of freedom and who want to condemn us to monolingualism and ostracism. Co-officiality means balance and equality between languages, without the prevalence or preponderance of one over the other. Catalan is an official language in Catalonia as well as Spanish and therefore cannot convert its own language into a preferred language. Since the PP we have told you many times and I repeat it again. We are in favour of promoting corrective measures of promotion, merit, promotion, something that is already intensely practiced, but under no circumstances should the measures taken involve the banishment of the other co-official language in Catalonia, which is the Castilian, in the public administration of the State. Before I finish, I want to say - because no one has mentioned it and it is worth knowing - that the regulation of the judicial career of the General Council of the Judiciary approved in 2011 grants certain years of additional seniority to those who obtained the recognition of a co-official language in the competitions for transfers of the corresponding geographical areas. Nor has he mentioned any of the proponents who in the Commission which took place in the Catalonian Parliament - which I see they have wanted to ignore, perhaps deliberately - some of the respondents argued that turning the use of Catalan into a requirement of access would bring down the number of opponents in Catalonia. They even considered it an imposition that broke the principle of equality for those who wanted to exercise in Catalonia. Also, the president himself of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia proposed to them to dampen the radicality of his proposal by establishing that the use of Catalan was not a requirement of access but of staying in a square in Catalonia. But I see you don't know what proportionality is. You're hiding a monopolistic desire from the Catalan Justice Administration. They speak without blushing about the creation of the Catalan Judicial Power Council as a structure of their own state. In short, they want nationalist justice as part of their independence process, and in a bilingual community like ours citizens can never be discriminated against because of it. It is anti-democratic and generates defencelessness, something that can never be generated in justice or in any other sphere. The Congresswoman has begun her intervention by saying, "I know it's no use coming here. It's a lie, it's always good. Parliaments always serve to learn, to listen, to dialogue, but also to understand the one who thinks different from you. Never forget that Catalonia is not only of the nationalists but Catalonia is of all, not only of the Catalans but of the rest of the Spaniards, it is not their unique and exclusive heritage but it is of all Spain. From the People's Party we have defended, defended and will always defend Catalan in Catalonia and Spanish throughout Spain, including Catalonia. [[Applauds]] This is our position and we will always do so respecting the principle of equality, freedom and justice. We have never changed our mindset, perhaps others do change their mindset every day. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs Montserrat. We bid thanks to the commissioners of the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u28	Proposed law of the Socialist Group, reforming the Law of 18 June 1870 establishing rules for the exercise of pardon. For your defence, Mr Echávarri has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. My group brings an initiative to reform what we know as the Law of Pardon or, what is the same, the Law of June 18, 1870, of rules for the exercise of pardon grace. The Law of Pardon is not a law of those that comes to our imagination when we think of the great laws that make up the legal architecture of the State, not even when we think of the laws that support or collect all our rights and freedoms, nor does it come to our head when we think of the rules that form part of the main trunk of the system. However, it is a law that has been there since 1870 and that applies as it is now can do much harm to the system, more specifically to the confidence of citizens in the system, and if we have a deficit of something in these times it is precisely of confidence in the system. Therefore, it is obvious that if people have stopped trusting the system that we have all given ourselves is that something works wrong, and what works wrong may be a small piece but it may make a very big noise, which is sometimes what happens with the wrong application of the Law of Pardon. That is why we Socialists believe that we need to fine-tune this small rule so that the system as a whole will squeal less than it currently does. [[The Lord]] We therefore propose in this amendment that full or partial pardon should never be granted in respect of offences committed by an authority in the exercise of its public function or office or in the exercise of that function in order to obtain an economic benefit for itself or for a third party. In other words, so that everyone can understand us: we want to amend the law so that a pardon cannot be granted to a person convicted of corruption; that is, we want to amend the law so that a corrupt person cannot be pardoned. Look at what I said we want to change, when I should really say we should change because that's what we have to do, change this law to avoid these kinds of pardons. It is not something that I or my group or the rest of the groups say, I think it is an absolute cry in Spanish society and I hope that the Group of the European People's Party will also understand this and today this reform will be unanimously adopted. I suppose now the representative of the People's Group will come out and tell me with that very high level of political dialectic that we are accustomed to in this legislature that if I don't know what about Andalusia, that if I don't know what about where, that if we didn't do it before; finally, its argumentary, the usual. But I tell you one thing: it gives me the same thing as they say. We have come without complexes to say that from now on, the government, whatever color it is, is deprived of granting pardons to corrupt people, whatever party they are, because corruption is neither left nor right, it is decent or indecent. There's no middle ground, either you're with corruption or you're against it. The Socialists are very clear where we are and we are also very clear where the group or groups that are opposed to this amendment are going to be left with the corrupt and they are going to be against Spanish society; a society that is crying out for us to do something so that they do not lose hope in the system. Every time a corrupt man enters prison there are thousands of Spaniards and Spaniards who rejoice. It is not a joy with thirst for revenge, do not misunderstand me, it is an intimate satisfaction that many have to know that in the end in this country we are all equal, that who makes it pay and that politicians are not a special class immune to justice. No, we're not. Every time a plot of corruption is uncovered there are thousands of Spaniards who feel that justice has been done, who have finally caught that or that one that everyone knew or knew was corrupt, and that day thousands of Spaniards and Spaniards regain even a little confidence in the system. It is a confidence gained meter by meter, centimeter by centimeter, with the effort of the State Security Forces and Bodies, with the effort of the judiciary, with the effort of individuals who risk their lives - their lives, yes - when they denounce corrupt plots that are nothing but mafias. Well, that confidence in the system goes absolutely out of the way when the Government does not even intend to grant pardon to a convicted person for corruption or a corrupt person, and I do not tell you when it does, and we cannot afford it. That is why we must close the door in a sharp way and all together to that possibility, whoever it is and governs who rules. We also believe that a change should be made outside cases of corruption. We believe that there should be some oversight of the Government's action in this area. For example, we all remember Gallardón's pardon to the Kamikaze of Alzira, that shameful pardon. With this we do not mean that the granting of pardon is subject to judicial authorization, let alone, we just want the law of pardon to be complied with. Article 11 of the current law itself states: Full pardon shall be granted to convicted persons only if there are grounds for justice, fairness or public utility in the judgment of the sentencing court. In other words, for the granting of pardon there must be a number of reasons that the law itself contains, sine qua non reasons, and yet no one is expected to monitor or supervise the existence of such reasons constituting pardon. For this reason, we believe that the decree on the granting of pardon should be published in the Official Gazette of the State, in which the existence of some of these reasons - that is the meaning of our reform - is collected in a motivated manner, in order to avoid that this area of discretion which the Administration has, and which therefore has the Government and which we do not discuss, becomes arbitrary, because one thing is discretion and the other is arbitrariness. We are not against the spirit of pardon, which is a gracious measure and we know it, we are in favour of the strict application of the Law of pardon, which is very different. And who should ensure the strict application of a law? Those to whom our Constitution grants such status: the judges themselves. We therefore believe that it is necessary for the judge or court that issued the judgment to consider that there are certain reasons for justice, fairness or public utility. We do not want another trial to take place on the merits of the matter, no; we want the pardon law itself to be properly implemented, which, as I have said, is very different; we want the law enforcement body to also ensure that this law is enforced, if not, we would find ourselves before a law that is outside judicial control, a law that by giving power to the Government allows the Government itself to decide whether or not to comply with it, and this has no place in a rule of law like ours. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a great opportunity - another - to say very loudly to those who do not believe in the system that the system works, who still have the agility to adapt to the needs and desires of the people, who do not need to insult to move forward, who do not need to overthrow, assault or surround anything to improve; who only have to listen much to legislate well and that when the great majority of a society says something is wrong, it may be wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, let us stop legislating against the majority and start ruling for the majority. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Echávarri. Position setting of the Joint Group. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Social pressure has been able to reduce the number of pardons, which we are not particularly happy about, since the problem of pardons is not the number but the procedure by which they are granted and above all what crimes are pardoned. Questions both of which have a remedy through the reform of this pardon law - which, in our view, is already very long overdue - whose request has been debated on many occasions in this House. I insist, indignation must not come because of the number of pardons, as long as they are social pardons related to the reinsertion of the condemned, with justice and with equity, and not the favor to the client of the office of the minister's son, today ex-minister, or to the party companion who does not pull out of the blanket because he knows that when the waters are softened and there are no electoral processes the aid will arrive in the form of pardon, which for that he did not pull out of the blanket. When an absolutist and opaque law, by allowing those who command to exercise the right of grace without any control, falls into undesirable hands, abuses are not kept waiting to thank silences, support or any other equally regrettable motive. What do we propose since Compromís? Several things. In addition to what is already put into the proposal itself, in addition to including the mandatory publication of the statement of reasons in the State's Official Gazette incorporating the reason for which he was convicted and the sentence served to date, allowing access to those who are interested in the entire file of processing and resolution by establishing the obligation to inform the parties concerned that the pardon is being processed and that they have a period of time to make allegations. And also regulate the impossibility of pardoning persons convicted of crimes of misappropriation of public revenues, forgery or any other against the Treasury and the Public Administration. And what should this government do as long as this reform is being carried out? One simple thing, rather than speaking and filling your mouth every day in this election campaign, is to publicly commit to reject all pardons requested in respect of penalties for crimes of misappropriation of public revenues, prevarication or any other offence against the Public Finance, against Social Security, against the Public Administration of the current Penal Code or any other offence related to corruption of public offices, and to make such a decision immediately public. We ask the PP government to abandon free will in a bad way - today for you, tomorrow for me - of a government with too many envelopes to hide, and to engage in a serious and rigorous way with the rule of law and respect for justice. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u32	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Fernández, since the seat?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking from the seat to say that we support the consideration of this non-legislative proposal because we share the need for the amendments that are proposed here, although we, if taken into consideration, would also table an amendment to this text. But, ladies and gentlemen, we understand, as Mr Baldoví has just said, that it is not a question of reducing pardons but of having them duly motivated, both in their refusal and in their approval. And in recent years we have encountered issues that - which were also discussed in this House on more than one occasion - seemed absolutely scandalous because for the same crimes in some cases some pardons were denied and, instead, in other cases were granted. We also believe that certain issues should be defined in relation to those aspects, offences or actions that should not be considered for pardon or at least be more cautious on issues such as those in the proposal, such as those relating to public funds or public administration issues. We understand that in the same way that in cases of crimes against public health there are a number of preventions in the granting of crimes, also in cases such as the one raised in this bill must be taken into account. That is why we will support this non-legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems to us that this proposal for a law presented by the Socialist Group is full of common sense and legal and social logic. The law reforming the exercise of the right of grace through pardon was of the year 1870. A law of 1870, Mr President, must necessarily be out of time. It is a law older than the Criminal Prosecution Law - which we are currently reforming, even partially - which is from the year 1882, and is inspired by the exercise of grace exercised by the emperor, or the king previously, directly legitimized by God. It was not in vain that the condemned were pardoned in the name of God through royal pardons and royal pardon ballots. That perspective has still made our regulations, in the matter of pardon, not judicially controllable because the requirements of justice, public utility and equity, referred to in the Law of the year 1870, which regulates the exercise of grace through pardon, are regarded as a sort of abstract, non-measurable concepts and therefore do not deserve justification, and we understand that they are perfectly measurable concepts in legal terms and deserve substantiation. This is the request or request for the Socialist Group's proposal, and therefore it seems appropriate to us that it should be based on the granting of an act which the legislation itself and the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court considers ex gratia or which is considered to be funny. Look, it's not funny, it's outrageous. Many pardons that have been granted are manifestly outrageous. In order to avoid these scandals which have caused social alarm, Mr President, the requirement of substantiation of these elements or reasons for equity, social justice or public utility to which the law refers, plus that which incorporates the proposed law of the Socialist Group, which is that of the rehabilitation or social reintegration of the prisoners, seems reasonable to us, as well as to us each and every one of the aspects that the material content of the proposed law contemplates: the exclusion of the possibility of pardon to subjects who commit crimes of political corruption. But we have a doubt, Mr. Echávarri, and I'm sorry. When you refer to reform in your single article, first, article 2, you do not exhaust all crimes of political corruption. They refer to offences of political corruption committed by public officials or authorities who, through a misrepresentation in favour of a third party or with a third party, commit an offence, but these are not all offences of political corruption. Perhaps, if this could be dealt with, which I doubt - I doubt reasonably - we could amend this precept and amplify the subjective scope of application of this possibility of pardon for the commission of crimes of political corruption. Secondly, we find it very appropriate to seek new reports that go beyond those provided for in the legislation: the report of the treatment board, the report of the sentencing court that imposed the penalty when a total pardon is requested and above all the requirements contained in the reform of article 5 concerning the fact that the pardon decision must make express mention at least of the penalty for the pardon - the pardon - of the offence committed, the state of execution or, where appropriate, the penalty imposed, and the title of the charge and the origin of the request for the pardon. We don't even know who asks for the pardon, we don't know the entire pardon files. From that perspective, we are faced with a truly graceful act, but also with an act that constitutes a democratic atrophy. It makes no sense that at this point in life, Mr President, the reasons for the pardon are not known and those who request the pardon, because knowing who requests the pardon can clearly derive or derive its bastard character, its spurious character or not. With regard to the total pardon and the fact that the judge or the sentencing court expresses its opinion and that only in the case of a favourable opinion of the judge or sentencing court can a total pardon be granted, we believe that it should be based on the corresponding royal decree, which must be of a public nature, on the grounds of justice, equity, public utility and those relating to resocialization, and, finally, we also believe that parliamentary control is very relevant and, from that perspective, on the instrument used in the proposal to send to the Justice Commission twice a year the files of pardon and to amplify them with those requests for supplementary information which the Justice Commission considers relevant, we will establish not only a mechanism for judicial control of the exercise of the right of grace, but also a control of a political or, at least, parliamentary nature. We therefore agree with the whole of what the Socialist Group has proposed. Surely with this proposal of law, if it were the subject of consideration and approval, we could save ourselves many of the scandals with which we have lived in recent times in the sphere of granting or using the right of grace through pardon. Mr President, it is untenable that some of the pardons that have been mentioned by some of the speakers who have spoken before me have been granted with that graceful character, with that lack of jurisdictional control and with that absolutely discretionary and abusive character which has provoked genuine social alarm.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking briefly to say that, of course, we will support this proposal. My group has previously put forward proposals in a very similar sense, there is a high level of coincidence, one in 2013, which was supported by the Socialist Group, and the other in 2015, in the Committee on Justice, which did not have it, perhaps because it was linked to issues such as drilling and its suppression within a package that has always seemed to us - I would briefly like to insist on this - that should be taken as a whole. It is clear that the Pardon Act has been used in a spurious manner; it has been a kind of last resort very favourable to persons convicted of corruption. It is a real scandal that means that there is a last escape mechanism when the courts of justice work, and it is also a documented and contradictory fact, because one of the groups most benefitted by pardons is - for God's sake! - those condemned for corruption. Specifically, they have favored certain parties that have always had a privileged relationship in their parliamentary dealings to form governments. All this makes it inevitable and inescapable to change the Law of Pardon so that there are rules that exclude those who have committed and been convicted of crimes against public administrations. We think, I insist on this, that this should be part of a regeneration of the administration of justice from the root, from the laws that allow abuses like this one that we have commented on and that motivate this proposition, and that this should be linked - although we are not going to pretend to be done on this occasion - to the suppression of the outbursts, to the independence of justice, to the provision of material means, to the elimination of judicial fees, to the support of the office shift and all those absolutely elementary requests that distinguish a state of truth from a virtual one. A State of law where a person convicted of corruption can be pardoned by the Government for no reason is far from being a true State of law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u39	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, pardon is an extraordinary legal institution, but, to the extent that the body granting pardon is the Executive, it can be said that it is also of a clear political nature. This, coupled with the lack of transparency in the process and the absence of detailed regulation of the circumstances underlying the granting or refusal of pardon, often raises questions about the variables relating to the political context of the pardon and, in particular, about the minister who granted it. A study published in 2011 in the number nine of the Spanish Journal of Criminological Research, by the jurists Doval, Blanco, Fernández-Pacheco, Viana and Sandoval, notes that between 2000 and 2008 successive governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party granted a total of 4,667 pardons, with an annual average of 519; about 42 pardons each month. For example, on December 1, 2000, the then Minister of Justice, Angel Acebes, granted 1,443 pardons in one day, justifying them because Pope John Paul II had asked the government for grace measures on the occasion of the Jubilee year. It can be understood, ladies and gentlemen, that the pardon, being the last hope of the convicted person, softens or subdues disproportionate penalties, or that it is granted in certain circumstances, such as the family responsibilities of the defendant, the seniority of the sentenced person, his minor danger or the existence of incurable diseases. However, we are talking about something else; we are talking about that in many cases the legal status of the crime committed, the prisoner's membership in a particular political party, a public institution or related economic powers have generated controversy and reasonable doubts about a worrying problem: whether or not the type of crime and the rank or condition of the convicted person influence the granting of pardon. That is the public debate in Spanish society, the belief that pardon has become a mechanism of abuse by different governments, and let me say that in a special way from the current government of the People's Party. That's what we're talking about. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the parliamentary debate that we had here on the subject of transparency laws, in the parliamentary debate on the High Offices Act, various parliamentary groups asked the main group of the Government, asked the Government to regulate the issue of pardon in the event that it was not regulated in any of these bills. Silence was the answer and remains so, because largely the People's Party does not renounce a discretionary mechanism to, on many occasions, use pardon with its friends. Yes, it is necessary to regulate the pardon in our country as a result, I repeat, of the abuse that is taking place in its use. Thus, clearly, the type of pardon measures may constitute a frontal attack on the principle of legality of offences and penalties, and would be incompatible with the principle of equality before the law because of its discretionary, arbitrary and largely secret nature. We will vote in favour of the Socialist Group's proposal because we agree with the four angular measures it proposes. First, to exempt corruption crimes so that they cannot be pardoned. What a great message this would be for Spanish society. Secondly, forcing the motivation of the pardon, because some pardons, if motivated, would mean the shame of the one who writes the motivation, because they know perfectly well that some of them have no motivation at all. Third, compare the opinion of the court or magistrates who issued the conviction. Yeah, that's essential. Finally, ensure regular information to the Congress of Deputies and its Justice Commission and, if I may, the development of an official statistical index so that we know with light and stenographers why, to whom and how many pardons are produced in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u40	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Jané. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Catalan Parliamentary Group for Convergence and Union will be voting in favour of this proposal for a law put to us by the Socialist Group on pardon. A vote in favour, despite the fact that for Convergence i Together what would be necessary is not a partial reform of a law - Mr Olabarria reminded him very well, to whom I welcome again the Plenary of Congress after his surgical intervention; welcome again, Mr Olabarria - which, as Mr Olabarria said, is from 1870. Rather than seeking reforms that involve a patch, it would be necessary to make a comprehensive reform of the figure of the pardon, to do so in accordance with the comparative law and/or constitutional parameters that for Convergence i Unió should involve a control of the pardons; the possibility of controlling the concessions of pardons, which could be resorted to before the contentious-administrative jurisdiction and provide clearly; transparency - said Mr Nuet -, which should lead us to that every pardon must be specially motivated, to know the reasons. I would like to remind the Socialist Group that in the Socialist Government's time the Law on Pardon was reformed; in 1988 there was a reform of Article 30, an unfortunate reform, because the law said that there would be a decree motivated to grant the pardon, but it was applied tipp-ex and it was removed motivated. They will be granted by royal decree, and in 1988 the need to be motivated will be eliminated. Today the Socialist Group raises this necessary motivation. We share it and regret that this abolition had been implemented in 1988, although it is always good to rectify it, and therefore we understand that pardons must be motivated and should always explicitly mention the crime committed, the degree of execution of the sentence achieved, the title of the charge, the main penalty on which grace falls, the origin of the request for pardon - who is asking for it - and, finally, clearly the reasons that can justify such pardon. We are not against the figure of pardon itself, a figure that is in the Constitution and in countries in our environment such as Germany, France, Italy, Ireland, the United Kingdom, the United States or Canada. We are in favour of it being regulated differently and globally, not reactive reforms. Since Convergence and Union we believe that we should not implement reactive reforms here, it must be a global reform. Today, these specific points are raised and welcome is this proposal if it can serve us, even at the end of the parliamentary term, to rethink this institution of pardon globally and to carry out that global reform, which is an outstanding subject. Convergence and Union will therefore vote in favour of the consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr García-Tizón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is aimed at a proposal for a law tabled in December 2013 by the Socialist Group, which seeks to amend the current Pardon Act at the following extremes. First, an exception to the pardon measure in respect of offences committed by the authority in the exercise of its function in office or in the exercise of that function in order to obtain an economic benefit or action for itself or for a third party. Secondly, to declare null and void the resolution of the pardon in which it does not contain, in addition to the mentions required by the 1870 Act - offence, state of execution of the sentence, title of imputation and origin of the pardon - the justification, in the opinion of the Government, for its granting. Finally, I transmit every six months to the Congressional Justice Commission a copy of the resolutions of pardons granted. The pardon measure has a very narrow reception in the 1978 Constitution; in particular, two mentions in articles 62 and 102.3. According to the former, it is for the king to exercise the right of grace in accordance with the law, which cannot authorize general pardons. The second provides that the royal prerogative of grace shall not apply to the criminal responsibility of the President and other members of the Government. It is, therefore, a constitutional provision with its own characteristics, since it is not an administrative act nor is it predicable the discretionary nature that accompanies another category of these administrative acts. That is why it is not subject to judicial control, except in the regulated elements, which are elaboration and processing, nor is it subject to the teleological element of its purpose, the end of grace. This is reflected in multiple Supreme Court judgements, including those of 27 May 2003 and 10 October 2007, as reflected in the bill. In short, pardon is a graceful act and with many reminiscences of political acts, without we having to conclude that there is a full assimilation of this measure with political acts. However, this measure of grace represents an institution fully in force and fully generalized in comparative and convenient law, as has been acknowledged by previous speakers who have spoken before, which I must say that the same - some spokesmen have said otherwise - has been used on many occasions by the present Government. Thus, in 2013 it granted less than 3% of the requests received and in 2014 1.05 % -72 out of 6,824 requests - and it has had the favourable opinion of the sentencing court and the prosecutor's office in more than 95% of the cases. None of these pardons granted by the People's Party Government have been granted for corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, none; on the contrary, from the very first moment this government announced that such crimes would not obtain pardon in any case. Let's look a little deeper at the proposition. Firstly, the extension of the exceptions to pardons. At present - you know - there are three: lack of a firm sentence, persons who are not at the court's disposal and recidivists, even if in this case it is issued that for reasons of equity, justice or public utility the right of pardon may be granted. Added to this is the alleged criminal responsibility of the President and other members of the Government. The proposal seeks to apply the exception of pardon to cases committed by authority in cases of corruption. The extension of these exceptions may be accepted beyond what is contained in the 1870 Act and in article 102.3 of the Constitution. It must be recognized that in our Constitution there are no numerus clausus regarding which are to be the alleged exceptions of the grace of pardon. However, in this proposal submitted by the Socialist Group, what should be the offences to which pardons should be extended in general terms? Only to crimes of corruption, as the proposing group understands, by believing that this exceptional remedy is not justified in crimes of political corruption or, on the contrary, can and should it be extended to other crimes? Does the Socialist Group understand that it is not justified, since it does not include it in its proposal, in the crimes of terrorism, organized crime, sexual trafficking, domestic violence, pederasty, serious drug trafficking, gender-based violence, violence against minors, misappropriation of public revenues, prevention? Don't these crimes have a social rejection at least as strong as corruption crimes? The proposal for a law is clearly opportunistic and does not seek to promote a substantial change in pardon measures as well as to take full advantage of a social and political problem that currently exists and is being fought against by the Government of the People's Party, which has offered all political groups the maximum consensus to combat it and to ensure that cuts and party advantages are not allowed. The second of the amendments is the requirement of motivation. It is pointed out in the explanatory statement of the proposition that there is an unacceptable vacuum in a democratic state and it is suggested that this has been dragging away since the year 1870. That's rigorously inaccurate. As I have indicated before, until 1988 the law of 1870 required a reasoned decree for the granting of pardons. It was on that date that, thanks to an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that expression of decree was replaced by the simple expression of royal decree. This allowed the royal decrees on the granting of pardons to have no justification and was thus accepted by the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, as can be seen in the judgments cited in the bill itself. I must admit that from the very beginning there were critical voices about the situation created by the socialist amendment, as it is considered contrary to the constitutional principle of prohibition of the arbitrariness of public authorities enshrined in article 9 of our Constitution. The jurisprudence of the Supreme Court has also been modulating its previous doctrine to attempt to integrate a more consistent interpretation of the Constitution and the Pardon Act. Thus, these judgments state that the rationale for the 1988 amendment was precisely the result of a terminological adaptation and did not alter the explanatory statement of the 1870 Act, which required the reasons for justice, equity and public utility. A systematic analysis of the Law of 1870 also leads to the conclusion that the resolution should contain reasons for justice, equity and public utility, since the text of the Law emphasizes up to five times - articles 28, 25, 11, 16 and 2 - that these reasons for equity, justice and public utility should be applied. However, along with all the above and as the judgment acknowledges, it should be noted that jurisdictional control can never extend to the essential core of the right of pardon or to the assessment of formal requirements, but it must do so to the non-accuracy of arbitrariness in the granting of pardon. Finally, the proposal provides for the Government to send every six months to the Justice Commission a copy of the decisions of the pardons granted. The current Law on Pardon already provides in its article 30 that the granting of pardons, whatever their class, shall be by royal decree, which shall be inserted in the Official Gazette of the State, which shall include the sentencing court, the date of the sentence, the definition of the offence, the penalty imposed and the exact content of the grace and its conditions. To this, ladies and gentlemen, should be added the amendment made on this subject by the Organic Law 1/2015 of 30 March, amending the Criminal Code, which will soon enter into force, which has introduced an additional third provision according to which the Government will send a report on the granting and denial of pardons to the Congress of Deputies every six months. For the presentation of the data contained in this report and after transmission of it, a high office of the Ministry of Justice will request their appearance before the Committee of Justice of the Congress of Deputies. In the same vein, this Organic Law introduces a first final provision amending the Pardon Act. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you will see that you have acted with prejudice; you knew what we were going to say, we were going to refer to something that had nothing to do with my speech. Moreover, he does not know or say whether or not he admits the right of grace or pardon in our right, because he says one thing and the opposite; he says it is a graceful act and at the same time wants to subject it to judicial control. Ladies and gentlemen, while the measure of pardon is an exceptional measure, very little used by this government - I have already said this before; less than 3% in 2013 and less than 1.05% in 2014, and in addition more than 95% has had the favourable opinion of the sentencing court and the prosecutor's office - it is true - and in that we agree with most or practically all political groups - that this institute needs accommodation to the new trends of the Supreme Court and greater integration with constitutional determinations, in particular the guarantee of the prohibition of the arbitrariness of public authorities.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u44	Your Honor, your time's up a while ago.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u45	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The Ministry of Justice has expressed its support for the Government's approach to undertake a thorough reform of this institute, but in an integral, sensible manner, without opportunistic or partisan advantages. This proposal does not meet these requirements: it is incomplete, it lacks rigour, it comes to the House with quite opportunistic and partisan air, and several of its proposals are already surpassed by the recently adopted legislation, as is the case with the Organic Law 1/2015, of 30 March. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that the People's Parliamentary Group is not going to grant the vote in favour of this bill. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u46	Thank you very much, Mr García-Tizón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u47	We turn to point III, concerning non-legislative proposals. We start with that of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which refers to the use of shared platforms and services in public administrations. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Martín-Toledano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the current parliamentary term both the Government and the People's Group have set as one of their main objectives an in-depth reform of public administrations. To this end, the entire Executive, which created the Commission for the Reform of Public Administrations, CORA, was involved. This Commission carried out an in-depth study to identify structural defects in administrations and thus be able to propose the necessary reforms to improve their efficiency and transparency, reducing costs and providing more efficient services to citizens and businesses. Achieving this enormous reforming task was not only an obvious necessity, but also a widely shared citizen requirement. I believe I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that the commitment made by the Government is bearing significant fruit. Thus, of the 222 measures proposed in the CORA report, 70% of them are implemented 100% in an unprecedented modernization process in our democratic history, shared by the General Administration of the State, the Autonomous Communities, local authorities and public employees. Reforms, ladies and gentlemen, which have been highly valued by the OECD, which qualifies them as one of the most ambitious processes of governance reform in member countries. The process already offers practical results. All of the measures have resulted in savings of more than EUR 20.2 billion and the abolition of a total of 2,194 public authorities in all administrations. 292 agreements have been signed to avoid duplication and over 900,000 electronic invoices have already been issued. In addition, savings for citizens and businesses from lower bureaucratic burdens amount to more than EUR 1.7 billion and the general government deficit has been reduced from 9% in 2011 to 5.7% in 2014. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has been done within a much broader process of reforms that has placed Spain on a clear path of economic recovery, with GDP growth close to 3% and a pace of job creation around 500,000 jobs per year, leading our country both across the European Union. To achieve the objectives set out in the CORA report, the development and use of common platforms and shared services between different public administrations is of great importance as a solution to reduce administrative burdens and increase user comfort, provide quality services by reducing their operational costs and promote coordination between several administrations. These common platforms and shared services are more important, if one can, in a country like Spain, strongly decentralized, where citizens and businesses have to relate to different administrations in different territorial areas for ordinary procedures of their family or business life. It would make no sense for public administrations in Spain, which is participating in one of the most ambitious cooperation and coordination projects in history, such as that of the European Union, to be unable to work together to reduce bureaucratic burdens and economic costs and to improve user care. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, the whole process promoted by CORA is being carried out within a framework of competition and institutional loyalty, since the objective is not a re-centralisation, as it falsely moves public opinion from some nationalist sectors, but rather a rationalization in the provision of services, a reduction in bureaucracy that facilitates citizens and businesses in their daily activities, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is a demand unanimously and permanently repeated by users in all surveys. The ineffectiveness of public administrations and the damage to citizens and businesses caused by the identity discourse of an anachronistic nationalism cannot be hidden, let alone by the maintenance of old vices of administrative structures that can resist change and modernization. CORA has developed or promoted common platforms in all vertical areas of administrative action - health, social services, employment, justice, education, etc. - as well as horizontal elements in the provision of services - contracting and electronic invoices, embargoes, real estate management, deposit box management, etc. Many of these systems, ladies and gentlemen, have been created to make them compulsory for use in bodies under the General Administration of the State, but with the aim of providing services common to all public administrations, which can join their use on a voluntary basis. On other occasions, common platforms have been developed to make the different information systems compatible and to intercommunicate when the citizen changes the field in which the provision of services is being carried out. The clearest example is that of healing. It should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that the aim is for the citizen and the company to receive an agile, efficient and understandable attention, that the user perceives the service he is receiving as integral and not fragmented. There are already more than thirty common platforms or shared services powered by CORA. No one with a common sense and true spirit of public service can deny that the use of these common platforms and shared services improves efficiency, minimizes operational costs in the provision of services and, above all, significantly reduces the administrative burdens to citizens and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, given the success of the government's public administration reform programme through CORA, we believe it is necessary to urge the continuation of the process of transformation of the public sector and to foster dialogue with the autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u49	Mr. Martin-Toledano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u50	I'm finishing up. ... and foster dialogue with the autonomous communities and local entities to promote the necessary arrangements for the use and coordination of common platforms and shared services. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that providing good services quickly and efficiently to citizens is the raison d'être of public administrations and we therefore call on all groups to join this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u51	Thank you, Mr. Martin-Toledano. An amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy. For your defense, Mr. Anchovies.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u52	Thank you, Madam President. This non-law proposal raises a specific problem, that of the need to share virtual platforms, which serves as a pretext to reflect on a more general problem, which is the need to reform public administrations. Starting with the specific issue of the need for virtual platforms, I would have to tell the proposer that, as far as my group is concerned, you are preaching to those already converted. In a way, he is preaching to those who, if I may, began preaching, because one of the important proposals of Union Progress and Democracy since its creation had to do with the existence of duplication in public administrations, something that was then denied, even a taboo theme, and to exemplify that need to end duplication, it always seemed to us that one of the most striking issues was that of virtual platforms, because they proliferated in our country in different formats that often did not communicate with each other. It was a really striking example, because there are, of course, technologies to avoid this problem, something totally incomprehensible. That is why we made proposals as a non-legislative proposal from which the current single employment portal was born. It is true that this unique portal is more a search engine than what we understand as integration, which are similar formats and platforms in which the user is not really noting that he uses a platform shared by different administrations. At this point, seven years after the Union Progress and Democracy raised these issues, almost four years - three and a half years - after the start of the legislature, we should ask ourselves how there is still a way to go on this issue, how it has not yet been resolved, even more, how it has ever happened, what kind of uncoordination there was in our administrations so that not even at this virtual level, where there is technology, where there is no cost, where there is comfort for users, let us create this non-decentralised system - because decentralization itself is good -, poorly designed, chaotically decentralized. On this particular problem there are general reflections on the goodness of the reform of public administrations undertaken by the Government. The need for reform is obvious. We have a local government, provincial parliaments, autonomous communities, a state, a European administration, overlapping with each other. That is why my group has specifically designed and proposed an ambitious reform of public administrations. Many issues are already part of the public agenda - they were not so when we introduced them - for example, the need to abolish provincial parliaments - 6 billion savings every year, we were the first to propose it, it has been falling on the public agenda -; for example, the need to merge municipalities - there are more than 8,000 in Spain, our neighbours have done it, we were the first to propose it, it has been falling on the public agenda - and issues that we introduced and continue to be the only ones to defend, for example, the need for each autonomous community not to become a ministate, not to replicate seventeen times organisms that may not be indispensable, such as advisory councils. Do you remember the scandal of the Advisory Council of the Community of Madrid? Is it still working? Are they still working in the other communities? For example, economic and social councils, for example, accounting courts. The reform of the Government has been very unambitious and the proof is that all of this that I have just mentioned continues to exist. Parliaments have not been suppressed, municipalities have not been merged, unnecessary bodies have not been suppressed. However, it was possible to do so - a government with an absolute majority, autonomous communities rescued - and it was necessary, it was the right way to balance public accounts. We estimated that 40 billion euros could be saved. You denied it, but with your mini-reform you say you saved half. That is why we believe that this cannot be solved with a generic GNP such as the one they bring and we have tabled an amendment to give true content to the GNP. Let us stop making generic statements and, if we want to move forward in this direction, we propose to take the road today to suppress the provincial parliaments in Spain. If they do not, as I fear they will not, we will not support their GNP, we will abstain, because solving the problems with generic declarations and with words and not with facts is not what the Spanish citizens have put us here for. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u53	Thank you, Mr. Anchovielo. Positions adopted by the Joint Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, we are alluding to what the advocate of this non-law proposal has just commented on in relation to some political formations, and specifically the nationalists, accusing the centralist government or refocusing policies on the use of these criteria. In that sense, Mr. Member, from the Galego Nationalist Block we share that accusation, because we understand that this is a re-centralisation. You, hiding under the pretext of rationalising expenditure, are really covering up a series of measures that expand the decision-making and intervention capacities of the central government. That's right. There are some issues that may be presumed to have reduced costs for the purchase of more services, specifically in the health area, but it is true that State intervention in these matters has limited the competence of the autonomous communities. Furthermore, we must not forget that, under the criteria of this reform of the public administrations that emanate from the CORA report, Law 27/2013 on rationalization and sustainability of the local administration was also adopted, a law that represents a process of involution in the functioning of the institutions. We are surprised that the People's Group, which supported a bill - now converted into Law 27/2013 - without the consensus of the autonomous communities or of the local administrations, against the local administrations and autonomous administrations, in this case places great emphasis on the Congress of Deputies urging the Government to continue the process of transformation of the public sector, in this case in dialogue with the autonomous communities and local authorities. In other words, something that you missed on fundamental issues within that Local Government Rationalization and Sustainability Act that commented, in this case, seems to be of interest to you. It seems very good to us, but we continue to insist that this really is to interfere with the competences that the autonomous communities and even the local administrations have, or have in the case of the latter. You are also making a very positive assessment that, under the criteria of the CORA report and the administrative reforms that have been made, significant improvements have been made - which you mention as such - such as the abolition of more than 2,000 entities in the public sector and what this has meant in terms of impact on public employment and job creation, etc. From the observation that we have made after these measures were taken, we have seen that, at the same time as these bodies of the local administration or mainly of the autonomous administration were destroyed, a great deal of public employment was destroyed, and under these measures many jobs have been created, but precarious jobs, after leading to a clear privatization of the public services that had existed so far. That is, those 2,000 public sector bodies or entities were removed to privatize services and create precarious employment as we have more than once spoken here and, in addition, they even mention the large number of self-employments that have been created. At the moment we are seeing, although there is a very great silence about the information on these matters, that there are workers of companies and fundamentally self-employed falses who are working under slave conditions, not only because of the low wages they receive but also because of the conditions in terms of working hours, lack of social security or precarious contribution to it, in short, a number of unacceptable issues especially when workers, whether self-employed or employees of privatized companies contracted by the public administration, work for the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Here we are asked about the use of shared platforms and services, but they have not explained to us the most relevant, which is where they have seen this well-deserved institution in the block of constitutionality, what precept of the Constitution provides for the existence of shared platforms or services, what precept of any status of autonomy of those currently in force provides for this well-deserved institution, what precept of any other organizational law of a configuring character of the territorial or institutional structure of the State provides for this well-deserved institute. We are faced with a creative innovation that you are so given especially when it causes the erosion of the autonomous state, the erosion of the local administration and its competences or the erosion of the outside administration as an inevitable effect. A spokesman for her parliamentary group, Mrs Montserrat, in this afternoon's first debate on the Organic Law of the Judiciary, referred to the fear of freedom attributed to some parliamentary groups. It is good to quote Erich Fromm and his pronouncement on the fear of freedom, but, with regard to the initiative that you present to us now and in terms of scholastic discourse, the fear of freedom would become the aporia and the fear of this initiative that you present to us. We are afraid not of freedom; we are afraid of the CORA report and we are more afraid of the Opera, whose name is indeed the acronym of the office for the execution of the reform of the Administration. Note that the expression execution is a polysemic term. When you speak of execution I give you the terminological dimension that you can imagine and not the one that you have commented from an apologetic perspective. How can you boast of what the CORA has done and what the Opera has done? They are new formulas to erode the autonomous state, and in this they are practicing an exercise of creative imagination worthy of praise, worthy of admiration. They are no longer satisfied with the traditional titles of erosion of autonomous powers, but have incorporated others: budgetary stability and its requirements following the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution; the receipt of Community law - each directive or framework decision incorporated into Spanish legislation is a new hack into autonomous powers and outside powers -; the use of improper competition titles, as provided for in Article 149.1.1a of the Constitution, which is an invocation of freedom, which is not an attribution of powers, according to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court itself, and the incorporation of new rights called citizenship, whose legal identity no one knows in the world of law, but which also serve to erode autonomous law and autonomous and local competences - as we shall see in the following non-law proposal that will be discussed in this House with regard to the provision of social services - and outsides also with regard to the outside institutions of Euskadi in particular. From this perspective, we do not understand this apologetic reflection on the CORA and on the Opera. We are against the intended benefits from the perspective of improving the efficiency of public administration. This improvement in efficiency has consisted, flatly and flatly, in eroding the competence of the autonomous communities, the competence of local and outside administrations. When you are announcing - and you are carrying out a precocious reflection of apologia - the disappearance of 2,000 public bodies or entities, none is an agency or an institution of the State - you are all autonomous, local or fora institutions - when at this time, if we make a comparison of the number of institutions existing in the state in relation to the autonomous and fora ones, we are in a relationship of 60 to 1 - and I am counting all -, 60 of the State for each autonomous, local or fora ones, including not only the general administration but also the real academies, managing bodies, public bodies of another nature, autonomous bodies, etc. In that regard, I must say that the autonomous fact is based on the so-called constitutionally operative principle. The device principle distributes competences and the device principle does not allow instruments of erosion or damage to these competences. The operative principle is based on the contents of articles 148 and 149 of the Constitution and none of these provides for shared platforms. For that there are sectoral conferences and other collaborative structures that you know perfectly well. The operative principle also rests on all autonomy statutes, none of which also refers to the existence of shared platforms. We feel like it - and I say it with all due respect...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u57	Mr. Olabarría, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u58	Yeah, I'm done. ... and with the appreciation that you know that I have you - that this is just another instrument, grossly disguised - if I may say so - to continue to erode autonomous skills, local skills and outside competencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u59	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that the Group of the European People's Party has outstripped itself today. Every week you appear with a non-law proposal in which you propose to do what the Government does not do, as if the People's Party were in opposition, but today you have curled up the curl, because today you are presenting us with a proposal for the Government to do the opposite of what it is doing, and that is the truth that it has merit. In the end, I will conclude that the only objective of your non-legislative proposals is that the other groups do not have the opportunity to present our own. Today you are presenting yourself with a proposal that you want us to applaud what you call transformation of the public sector. The truth is, it's a very nice euphemism. In practice, people know it and have suffered it, especially in the public sector, as a process of clearly diminishing the public, destroying the public sector, weakening, privatizing public services, always accompanied by businesses for a few. I'm sorry, but no, we can't support this. We are then cut short by a proposal to promote the necessary agreements to encourage the use of shared platforms and services, encouraging the removal of overlaps or duplications that make it difficult to provide better and more efficient services to citizens. The one who has written the circumloque has merit, we must give him a prize, total to say that we must do what can be done and not done, because there is nothing that prevents this situation, there is absolutely nothing that prevents this. How beautiful it sounds and how beautiful it is! Our incoming group, La Izquierda Plural, shares the need for a greater culture of cooperation between administrations, based on specific projects and mechanisms to improve public services. We share it and it is a great challenge that we have, especially in a State that has profound elements of decentralization and therefore diversity. But we have a serious problem in this country that is not about laws or only about policies, it is about cultural elements and it affects far beyond concrete political parties and the phenomenon of a central or decentralized State. We have a serious problem of not sharing information, of not sharing knowledge, of managing segregated policies, and that is even happening in governments of the same color and among advisors. In Catalonia, I have never seen education and education advisers agree on training subjects, and they can be cousins of the same party. It's a very deep cultural problem. In some cases, even this leads to a lack of aggregate data to know what is going on in certain areas where there is strong political decentralization, which also coincides with the social policy area. I mean, we have a serious problem, that's true. Unfortunately, I insist, it is not a problem that affects a single party or a single level of the Administration. We have some municipalities - not all - that have a certain culture of Juan Palomo, I eat it, I eat it. We have autonomous communities - I recognize this - that confuse autonomy with autarchy. By the way, don't identify them with those you call nationalists. I've seen autarchic behaviors in people with a very deep Spanish defense root, who act as a village chief but in a much larger area. It's a deep cultural problem. We have a central administration that has not understood that autonomy means diversity and that equality is not uniformity. We have this reality that starts from our understanding of two deep problems. One is a lack of public management culture. There are many leaders in the public sector, both political and professional, who have not understood that the centre of politics is citizens and that their negotiation is only a means, their negotiation is not the reason for what they are doing. And above all, we have a serious cultural problem. It is a lack of conception of the balance between competitiveness and cooperation. That is why there is little cooperation and sometimes much absurd competition within the same municipality, within the same autonomous community, within the State Administration itself, within the Council of Ministers itself. In order to reverse this situation, it is undoubtedly essential to build an alternative narrative and an alternative culture that basically goes by placing a concept of the public in which the center of the performance of all public servants, whether professional or political, is the citizen and not them, which is unfortunately what happens in many cases. This has little to do with problems of any political party or with problems of any administrative level. What's the problem? You'll have to admit that you're doing exactly the opposite. They usually confuse cooperation with centralization and shared platforms with centralized platforms. They are even denying, undermining the constitutional instruments, the constitutional spaces that enable these elements of cooperation to be enhanced. I guess you know that. For example, it seems to you that the bilateral commissions between the State and the autonomous community are already dead. I have some data here: in Catalonia it has not met since July 2011; in Andalusia, for example, it has not met throughout this legislature, and to see that it is not a problem of conflict with the opposition, in Castile and León, if my data are good, it has not met since 2010. The impetus of these bilateral commissions, such as that of sectoral conferences,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u61	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u62	... is certainly an impulse that belongs to the government, that is, as works are love and not good reasons, what you say you have to do what you can do, do it, but do not ask us here to applaud you for the cut you have made in the public sector, because for your part it would be...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u63	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u64	We're gonna leave him here. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u65	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Pàramo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this GNP is a new sign of disloyalty on the part of the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group towards the principles of decentralization, against the right to self-government of the autonomous communities and against the right to autonomy of the local government. I will be brief and, unlike what you show in the explanatory statement, with a meaningless and cynical account, I will be clear and sincere, among other things because I know that, far from group discipline, it is the majority who will share my ideas. I'm talking about cynicism and I'm sorry, but I'll explain myself. Where the explanatory statement says that public administration reform is one of the main reform projects, they should have put it: it is one of the main re-centralizing projects. When they say that they are in a big project that pursues transformation, they should say that they pursue involution. The goal of the PP government since its inception has been against an administration that was, is and must be spearheading. It was and is, in general, an example of good practice in the provision of direct care services to citizens and a major spearhead for the modernization of Spanish society. Obviously, I am not referring to the General Administration of the State, I am referring to the Municipal Administration, the democratic space most directly perceived by society, a space where precisely in these days thousands of citizens on foot, with more illusion than means, without knowing, when they are called to direct their municipalities, they will find themselves with a great obstacle, the most difficult to overcome: the State, with its government at its head. They say: In order to address administrative reform in an integral way... The Council of Ministers in 2012 agreed to create the CORA, which started with a focus on streamlining the structures and procedures of the administration and improving its relations with citizens and businesses. In fact, the task of the PP government did not go to the municipalist world, its representatives and professionals - for example, the FEMP - but rather to the technocrats of the General Administration of the State. The technocrats took as a reference the mismanagement of a few municipalities in the midst of a gross maneuver of distraction, promoting with communiqués and complicity a campaign of contempt which affected the more than eight thousand municipalities of the State and which achieved its purpose: to divert the scandalous attention that deserved a few municipalities. In their explanatory statement they say that in 2013 the Council of Ministers met the first report of the CORA with a list of proposals that - they say - put us in front of one of the most ambitious processes of governance reform. Well, what for the PP government is considered a success, for the municipalist world and for all the groups in this House, less the Popular Group and PNV, which supported the Lrsal, this law is the story of a failure without balance between costs and benefits. Economic costs are nowhere to be seen, but social costs are obvious. According to the Court of Auditors - it has been seen in this House - in 2012, 2013 and 2014 the municipalities, without having made effective the provisions of the Lrsal, have liquidated those exercises with surplus. Gentlemen of the Government and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, where do you see the beneficial effects of the CORA or the Lrsal? In addition, you refer to initiatives that are betting on new technologies and shared services, within the State Administration, with autonomous communities and local entities. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, autonomous communities and local administrations have been modernized, but not on the initiative of the State; they all go ahead of the State. The effects of the Lrsal and the CORA cannot be presented as a positive process when they are merely the expression of a policy contrary to the rationality and social sustainability of our peoples and cities. It's a system perversion. It is that it has subjected the autonomous communities to a systematic process of economic drowning; it is that it has turned the basic legislation into a virus that has invaded all the legislation with the will to centralize competences and annul the State of self-government; it is that it has increased the fiscal pressure on the taxpayers of the classes measures to devote the greatest collection, in its entirety, to strengthening the state bureaucracy, when what society demands is to strengthen the services they receive in health, education, social assistance and real policies for the search for employment, and which are all provided from the autonomous communities and the municipalities; and it is that it has acted premeditively to remove the municipalities of their citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u67	Mr. Pàramo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u68	Thirty seconds, please. Ladies and gentlemen, local reform is a time bomb and is ready to explode soon, in a few months' time, in the hands of the new buildings, councillors, mayors and mayors, in the term of office that will begin next June. It will be his legacy, with the signature of the PP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u69	Thank you, Mr. Pàramo. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sumelzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u70	Thank you, Madam President. It is difficult to find a parliamentary initiative that contains so much inaccuracy in the diagnosis, so many lies in the balance sheet and so much hypocrisy in the request that is being made to the Government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you are not reforming the administration; you are at the last stage of the demolition process you started in 2012. Let's look at it from where we look at it, the administrations are today infinitely worse than when you came to the government. This initiative contains an almost endless succession of inaccuracies, inaccuracies and lies. The first is that CORA has made it possible to improve support for entrepreneurs and companies. The Doing Business 2015 report places Spain behind countries such as Morocco, Mongolia, Zambia or Ivory Coast in medium time to start businesses. The second is that they have reduced the lateness. The European Union is investigating Spain for rescuing suppliers of more than €5 billion in interest and for non-compliance with the 2011 Morosity Directive. The third is that they have reduced duplicity. They announced a manual for January 2014 on rationalization and elimination of duplication that does not appear anywhere. The fourth is that they have taken measures that have affected public employment; yes, but they do not say what they have affected. Today there are 200,000 public employees less in essential services, they have lost more than 15% of their purchasing power and have fewer rights in terms of career, working conditions and social protection. The fifth is that it is betting on new technologies. The investment of e-government has increased from 730 million in 2011 to 312 at present. The sixth is that recruitment procedures have been improved. The new centralised contracts leave SMEs out of the public tender and are already creating serious management problems. The seventh is that savings of EUR 18 billion have been reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, only in the State has the current expenditure budget increased by almost 700 million between 2013 and 2015, and in terms of national accounts, intermediate consumption in 2014 was 23 million more than in the previous year. Lies and more lies, ladies and gentlemen; lies and more lies. In the proposed part of this initiative, you urge the Government to engage with the Autonomous Communities and local authorities to reach agreements on shared services; this is unheard of. Now, almost three years after its launch, when no administration other than that of the State was consulted, you want to dialogue with them. What's going on? They do not participate because the shared platforms do not work, are defective and at best do not solve the problems they should solve. I give you several examples: the platform Entrepreneurship in 3. It is home to just over 1,400 local entities out of the 8,000 existing ones. The municipalities that acceded to it made it compulsory by the Government; if they wanted to see the terms of the Supplier Payment Fund improved, they had to adhere to it. In May 2014 there were only 149 municipalities on the platform; after the Government's imposition, the following month, there were already 1,218. The same conditionality established the Government with the electronic invoice platform. Those entities that joined are paying a painful toll today, that of a system that is being a real chaos for the administration and for the companies; there are agencies that have not been able to pay yet a single invoice of 2015 for the precipitation, improvisation and inefficiency of the government in its implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the parliamentary term the Socialist Group has been denouncing what we believe is a conscious and premeditated operation of delegitimization, abandonment and destruction of public services. Therefore, the emphasis with which we oppose this initiative is directly proportional to the falsehoods and lies of its text...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u71	Mrs. Sumelzo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u72	...and the hypocrisy shown by the People's Group in raising it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Sumelzo. Mr Martín-Toledano, what about the amendment tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u74	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u75	Thank you, Mr. Martin-Toledano. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the return to local authorities of competence in the provision of social services and promotion and social reintegration. [[File number 162/001230]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u76	We move on to the following non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the return to local authorities of competence in the provision of social services and social promotion and reintegration. For your presentation, Mrs. Carcedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the entry into force of the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Government, we are witnessing social services trapped between ideological obsessions of the party in the Government, clamorous government contradictions and, perhaps, interests - not known at least - of the Government. We are faced with social services, among other things, outside the interests of the citizens, with the unfortunate problems and circumstances in which a part of Spanish citizenship is living; and also with a network of social services that will jump through the air by the entry into force, if no one remedys it, on 31 December of the same year. This is one of the reasons why we are bringing this initiative today, in anticipation that the new local corporations and the new autonomous governments will find this cake in the inauguration next June. Among the obsessions that we have been witnessing throughout this legislature - in this particular subject but also in general what has just been discussed in the last non-legislative proposal - the first is, in the words of the Minister of Public Administration, to avoid duplication and an Administration, a competition. The Minister of Public Administration must be presumed to be a minimum of rigour, at least in dealing with matters relating to the Administration. The definition of duplication would be the intervention of different administrations providing identical services to identical audiences. Given this definition, I do not know how anyone can ensure that in social services there are duplications, because an Administration, a competition is what social services have, by the development of the autonomous legislation of the seventeen autonomous communities. Each of the seventeen autonomous communities - it could be read, but I don't have time; Madrid, Castilla y León, Castilla-La Mancha, Asturias, Andalusia, etc. - defines the basic services - each one gives them a different name - as the gateway to the system and qualifies it as municipal competences; another type of equipment and services are autonomous competences. Then, an administration, a competition. I don't know where the duplicates come from, if it wasn't for that obsession with attacking the Administration and calling it superfluous, hyper-dominated, mastodontic, etc., behind which there is nothing but an absolutely ideological question. The third obsession is saving; saving at the cost of what? Saving at the expense of what is considered non-dispensable. What has been considered indispensible throughout this legislature? All budgets for social policies, specifically for social services that go to the most disadvantaged populations. For example, the state-dependent part of the Concerted Social Services Plan cuts by more than 68% in terms of the legislature. Therefore, obsessions, obsessions and obsessions. There are also contradictions; contradictions between its permanent proclamation of a stony defence of the Constitution against any sign of reform, with irreducible resistance to any updating of the Constitution and, on the contrary, attacks such as the case of this law which brought five remedies of unconstitutionality and, as far as the legislature goes, at least our parliamentary group has been forced to present more than thirty. Proclamation of a will for consensus. Small consensus: ten amendments in their entirety had this law. There were ten amendments in all, only his parliamentary group and two Members of the Joint Group supported it. There is a flagrant contradiction between what is proclaimed and what is done, between the substantive administration - the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality - and what the Minister of Public Administration does. The Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality acknowledged in his appearance the role of the municipalities and said that we will continue to collaborate in this regard. The National Action Plan for Social Inclusion of the Kingdom of Spain praises the maintenance of social services and the Plan agreed with the municipalities. Flattering contradiction, then, between what is said and what is done. In addition, there are some interests that we do not know what they respond to, although it is known that they put the survival of basic social services, of social services as a gateway to the system, and will fall into disappearance or privatization, so we can deduce some interest. We know, of course, that they are not producing savings but drastic cuts, such as the one announced in the European Commission of the National Reform Plan, which will save 3 billion at the expense of local services, of the services most needed for citizens. We do not know the hidden reason why this reform is being implemented. We know what the consequences of the entry into force of this law will be. First of all, it will create a social gap. It is clear - I will not repeat this - that the rates of poverty, inequality, unemployment protection are increasing, as well as the growing need for a protection network, specifically the last network, which is social services. There are 1.5 million more users of services and a cut - announced in the National Reform Plan - of 3 billion. Secondly, there is going to be a territorial gap because services...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u78	Mrs. Carcedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u79	I'm done, Madam President. ... small municipalities run out of skills. Thirdly, it will mean a break in the integrality of care, as it breaks the principle of comprehensive care for users. It's as if in sanity we say...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u80	Mrs. Carcedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u81	...diagnosing you with hypertension, but go to another administration to be treated. This is what defines the distribution of competences and what resides in the autonomous communities, in the municipalities, in the Local Administration Act. Fourthly, it's a labor threat.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u82	Mrs. Carcedo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u83	It is a threat to 450,000 workers -55,000 specifically from the local government - who have great uncertainty about their future. At least, gentlemen of the People's Group, take into account this non-legislative proposal and change only two articles and a transitional provision.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u84	Mrs. Carcedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u85	I'm done, Madam President. Change two articles and a transitional provision simply by urgent processing. We'd support them. At least...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u86	Mrs. Carcedo, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u87	At least they'd have a detail of attention - I'm done - with...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u88	You've been finishing two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u89	...the forcible ribmen who forced them to carry behind their backs these... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u90	Mrs. Carcedo, your time is up. There is an amendment tabled by the Plural Left Group. Mrs De las Heras has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be remembered, after the launch a year and a half ago, that this ill-called act of rationalisation and sustainability of the local administration has proved to be harmful and useless, apart from being impossible to comply with because of its complexity and ambiguity, as well as because of the deep rejection it aroused even before its adoption. Such a law could not be addressed without the broad and consensual agreement of the autonomous communities and municipalities, and with a merely mercantilist, centralist and authoritarian view. Thus, this law was passed and today we can already say that the objectives set for its imposition are a clear failure for the People's Party; a failure when rationalization, under the maximum: an Administration, a competition, is being left on wet paper in the face of the government's inability to reach an agreement with the autonomous communities in setting up a new funding system and when sustainability has only been used as a pretext for strangling public coffers that met the deficit target imposed by the government and that in addition over the past two years are contributing surplus. It is not in vain the first law in the history of democracy in this country that has managed to bring according to more than 3,000 municipalities of different political signs representing more than 16 million Spaniards and Spaniards to submit an appeal to the Constitutional Court; an appeal that, as you all know, has been admitted to proceedings along with eight more submitted by different autonomous governments - including some of the People's Party - and most of the political groups that form the opposition, except the PNV and UPN. We therefore considered it desirable that this non-legislative proposal should require the Government to repeal it, although it only serves as a pretext for ratifying the commitment we have made from the Plural Left to do so together with the rest of the political parties as soon as the configuration of the forces of this House changes. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of an electoral campaign and the neighbours and neighbours of our towns and cities do not need to be told what situation they are in, because they suffer it in their own flesh. No one can believe the economic recovery of the People's Party, except those that have never been in crisis. The neoliberal and cut-off policies of the Government have left a desolating picture for millions of households in which none of their members have work and for hundreds of thousands, throughout the State, which have no income at all. The situation of inequality, vulnerability, precariousness and exclusion has increased so alarmingly in these more than seven years of crisis that today, more than ever, a network of community-based social services is essential to ensure the survival and dignity of millions of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, mostly affecting boys and girls and women. It is the municipalities that are the closest and most prepared to deal with this situation of social emergency and the local reform of the Popular Group becomes a wall of containment that prevents them from their competitive development to protect these people. That's what we're talking about today. It is not in vain that this law is already proving to be one of the most powerful instruments at the ideological level of the People's Party, because we know what its dark intentions are. They are to replace a public system of social protection based on citizenship rights that takes into account dignity and respect for people with a system based on the transfer of the public to the private and social welfare. We do not need to wait until December and the definitive competition development to see how the welfare and social protection network has already been eliminated in the municipalities where the People's Party governs, replacing itself with a poor welfare-benefit benefit. It is therefore urgent not only to return to local authorities the full powers that enable them to maintain, consolidate and enhance all the programmes, services and services that have developed over the past thirty years in social services...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u92	Mrs. De las Heras, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u93	I'm done, President. ... but it is also essential to provide them with sufficient funding to enable them to exercise their full autonomy. That is why we fully share in essence the non-legislative proposal put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We have tabled amendments that we believe will enrich it, according to the compromise we have agreed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Hera. Firstly, Mrs Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Law 27/2013, on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration, is appealed to the Constitutional Court by nine autonomous communities, by the majority of the opposition groups in this House and by more than 3,000 municipalities in which more than 17 million people live. In addition, the Council of State itself questioned its constitutionality on several occasions and the BNG opposed it from the outset. We hope not only for a change, but for its repeal because it is based on a single criterion, to put the municipalities at the service of public service austereicide, established in the express reform of the Constitution carried out by the People's Group and the Socialist Group in 2011. In the case of Galicia, its 315 municipalities had a debt at the time of the adoption of the law much smaller than that of the Madrid City Council alone. Therefore, the law was not only based on the approval of all territories without taking into account their specificities, but it did so by invading autonomous powers, opening the doors to the privatization of local public services and strengthening fully anachronistic institutions, provincial parliaments; however, the main and most serious problem of local entities has not been touched and remains unresolved. We are talking about local funding, which does not guarantee the adequacy of economic resources for municipalities or the provision of basic public services; as a result, it devalues the quality of these services and further exacerbates the situation of the most vulnerable and needy people. Here, in this area, in that of the social policies carried out by the municipalities, it is in which the law has been tougher and has led to absurdity the principle of stability. In this case, the reduction in expenditure is to be achieved by abolishing services that have been effectively provided by the municipalities, vital services for millions of people; ultimately, professional services that inform, value and care for people. [[teleassistance, home help, etc.]] The last report of the General Council for Social Work clearly speaks of the dismantling of a social service system which has been consolidated as a municipal, not on the whim, but for reasons of efficiency arising from proximity, complexity and effectiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finishing, Mr President, this law and its attack on the municipal social services will produce widespread neglect in the most rural areas and of greater dispersal of the population, as is the case of the majority of the municipalities of Galicia, where the councils are the great dam of containment against the increase of impoverishment, exclusion and social marginalization.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u96	Mrs. Pérez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u97	I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, social care in the vicinity of the local area accounts for 0.5% of GDP, and it is more effective and efficient precisely because of the proximity to the citizen and his problems. For all this, we understand that this law has no other way out than its repeal or the declaration of its unconstitutionality. In this respect, the proposal for a legislative amendment seems to us to be insufficient, although it is on the path of what we too advocate. That is why we will vote in favour. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. This law was adopted without any consensus and is contrary to the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, ratified by the Spanish State on 20 January 1988, which defines local self-government as the right and effective capacity of local authorities to order and manage a significant part of public affairs, and gives them general exercise of public powers. The problem lies in the fact that the municipal powers of concern to the People's Party - urban planning, contracts for water, garbage and dumping - are already largely privatized. For the People's Party, social services are perceived more as a problem to get rid of - that's what they do with this law - than as an obligation; if someone has to deal with, let them be businesses, and so do business with the needs of people, such as Mr Cotino with the senior residences on my land, through a family company while he was a member of the government, through a summons drawn by his friend the then councillor, Mr Blasco, today sentenced to eight years in prison. Those are the incompatibilities that are out of control. When a government sees no social needs but only business routes, people have a problem, an urgent problem that we will have to solve through the ballot box. The People's Party has sought to enshrine an economic vision of public services, subjecting them to criteria of economic profitability when it comes to services that are to offer social profitability and that are measured under very different parameters - of happiness, of well-being - and empowering provincial deputies, despite their social destabilization and not being chosen by the people, where the cacicadas happen within them: Rus, Carlos Fabra, Baltar, for putting some charismatic examples. We will vote in favour of this proposal, as we already did at the time, by signing a commitment to repeal this law as soon as the arithmetic of this Parliament changes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration was a severe attack on local autonomy, because it cut back on democracy and, at the same time, pushed citizens away from power. The People's Party - as has already been said this afternoon - sought to reduce the decision-making capacity of local entities by establishing new and more complex mechanisms of control and accountability. In short, it is a law that was born from the most absolute distrust towards local governments. With the reform of the Law regulating the bases of the local regime, the centralist State represented by the People's Party is placed in a position of absolute guardianship of the local administration. Esquerra Republicana has already objected to its approval, and it did so not only because it took away from local authorities the powers to provide social services for promotion and social reintegration, which is not little, but also because it is a law that attacks local self-government, that does not solve the problem of financing local authorities, that cuts back on democracy, that moves away from power to citizenship, favoring that the powers are assumed by some entities, the provincial parliaments, that long ago they should have disappeared, and that it violates the legitimate exclusive powers of the Generalitat de Catalunya in the field of local governance, not taking into account - I conclude, Mr President - the singularities of Catalonia with regard to the local world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my group to establish the position on the non-legislative proposal that the Socialist Group is bringing to this House today for debate and adoption. It is a non-legislative proposal whose aim is for local entities to regain competence and exercise areas of activity, such as the management of social services for social promotion and reintegration. It is well known to all, especially those affected by the social benefits that come to their municipalities to receive basic care, which until now had been provided mainly by the municipalities. The experience and dedication of the social workers of the local institutions cannot be ignored, supposedly, for the sake of stability and to avoid the public deficit; indeed, a public deficit that is in no case attributable to the local administrations, which have presented a balance of surplus over the hard years of economic crisis. In any case, it would be to resolve the public deficit of other public administrations. No one questions whether public resources should be used to avoid waste, and under that generic assumption each administration should make the necessary efforts and consider it appropriate, but this should not be an excuse to prevent it from providing public services demanded by citizens who are linked and committed to their city and local entities, to the extent that they are affected and provide basic public services for social integration. In this context, it would be reasonable for interinstitutional agreements to be drawn up so that this benefit can be offered by those institutions which demand citizens and which are usually - as I said - the municipalities. Moreover, neither the accumulated experience nor the information available can be lost - also for reasons of economy -, let alone local jobs intended to satisfy the social benefits covered by this non-legislative proposal. Therefore, basically in line with the philosophy of the initiative, our parliamentary group is going to abstain from voting on it. The reason is easy to understand. Just as we do in voting for tax initiatives, arguing that, thanks to the economic concert, in Euskadi we have normative capacity in this matter, in this case, in that of Law 27/2013, of 27 December, article 34 amends the second additional provision of Law 7/1985, of 2 April, regulating the bases of local regime relating to the Basque foral regime. Under that provision, and if the competent public institutions of the Basque Country so decide, they may establish the competent divisions, tasks and resources derived from them; of course, within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country or from any of its historical territories. That is why we abstain, because of strict respect for the areas of competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. The Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy has the floor, Mr Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. We will support this proposal because, in due course, we have already expressed our opposition to the legal reform that the Government has achieved with regard to the local regime. In our opinion, the worst thing he has is that it is a proposal that is going to try to increase the role of the parliaments by depriving municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants of the possibility of making social policies; and that, of course, counts with our absolute opposition. As we have said countless times - and I take this opportunity to reiterate - the deputies are the paradigm and the example of anachronistic and unnecessary administration; moreover, they are constantly causing problems of corruption, of mismanagement, of very high fixed expenditure. Pretending that parliaments administer something so important - that it has to be as close, in particular, to the needy - as social policies are completely out of place; in this there is a virtually universal consensus. In the meetings that I have held - many of them - with NGOs and social policy groups, all agree that the municipalities are the most appropriate administration to take care of social assistance in their different areas. Finally, we also understand that small municipalities are not in the best condition, and we invite other groups to consider opening a serious debate on municipal mergers in order to obtain municipalities with the capacity to finance these policies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Mr Páramo has the floor for the Catalan Group of Convergence i Unió.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in May 2014 the Catalan Parliamentary Group presented to debate in committee a GNP with the same intention as we are now discussing, it is worth saying that it is almost a continuation of the previous debate. On that occasion my group colleague, Mr Campuzano, defended that non-law proposal in the same sense as the PNL that is presented to us today and that we are debating, in order to request or urge the Government to maintain the social services provided today from the municipalities to the situation prior to the adoption of Law 27/2013, Larsal. If its inconvenience was then felt, today we are in favour of the non-legislative proposal convinced of the need to save the negative effects that the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability in Local Administrations has on social services. We will give our affirmative vote to the non-legislative proposal convinced of the very serious impact that its entry into force will have on the next municipal mandate, which will start its course in June, especially from next January. Specifically, in the area of social services, Larsal breaks with the tradition of the past thirty-five years, but it not only breaks in Catalonia but in the whole State with the tradition and positive experience of considering that social services where they are most effective are in proximity, as it would be very difficult to address them from the autonomic or provincial level. This reality has led over the last few years to the establishment of a network of social services of proximity, of which we can have critical but benevolent considerations at the same time, essentially because they have always suffered from a clear lack of funding. The municipalities - poorly financed by the State - have developed services, despite this, in many of our cities and villages creating a tupid social mesh that has accompanied families with special difficulties. We must therefore avoid moving to a law that removes powers from the municipalities in order to move them to the autonomous ones, in a situation in which if this Administration wants to delegate the social services - because it believes that from the proximity it can be managed better - it must assume from their budgets the financing of these services - all for the benefit of the central state coffers -: it will not finance the municipalities, it will not finance the autonomous communities and the injured will be the citizen. Thus, if this legal provision applies it will take us from next January to a scenario of inability of the autonomous communities to finance the social services existing today in matters as important as home care, care for children in vulnerable situations, care for the elderly or care for people in situations of drug dependence. The calculations that the Generalitat of Catalonia is doing is that today the expenditure of the municipalities can only in Catalonia exceed 200 million euros, resources that are managed by municipalities, and that if the autonomous communities must finance these resources and do not have resources for it, the municipalities will not receive money, we will be engaged in an absolutely unsustainable situation, which by the hardness that it establishes regarding the fulfillment of its precepts inevitably leads to the closure of them. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous debate we have denounced the policy of taxation and are back to the same thing. The Catalan Group's non-legislative proposal of May 2014 and this non-legislative proposal is a call to you to stand up to Mr Montoro and his team to reconsider their position. The Court of Auditors and the Minister themselves recognise this: the municipalities have far exceeded their capacity to manage their current powers well and effectively, without economic problems, and therefore there is no justification for maintaining Larsal at this time. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority group, since Convergence i Unió we ask you to stop martyring the citizens with your experiments and to stop martyring the municipalities with the threat of the imposition of this law. A heavy slab that threatens thousands of citizens and thousands of future councillors, mayors and mayors who, from 24 May, must assume responsibility for providing the services they provide to their fellow citizens effectively and efficiently, as has been done so far by most of the more than 8,000 municipalities in the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Pàramo. For the People's Group, Mr Matarí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Socialist Group - Mrs Carcedo - for the opportunity of this debate in the middle of the municipal election campaign, because it will allow me to undo all the fallacies that you have said and that you continue to use on local reform. How many lies and how much demagogy. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] You predicted a black future for the municipalities and for the Spanish municipalities. This argument I have here in March last year sums up your thinking well. [[Show a document]] They say: Local government reform is wreaking havoc on the town halls and citizens; the same thing they have come to repeat today and said in the reform debate. Well, it's all fake, ladies and gentlemen. As you have rightly said, Mrs Carcedo, obsessions, obsessions and obsessions of the Socialist Group and the other groups on the left of this House. You announced the disappearance of municipalities, the suppression of social services, the massive privatization of public services, the loss of thousands of jobs. Indeed, none of that has happened, and that is what they were hoping would happen and that is why they are committed to repeating it. Ladies and gentlemen, a year and a half ago the law came into force and nothing that you continue to proclaim today has happened - nothing, ladies and gentlemen; absolutely nothing - but you don't give a shit and you keep saying the same thing when the exact opposite has happened; let's go step by step. First, in Spain, no municipality, no city council has disappeared; it is true that in the process of rationalization of the Administration, 1,374 entities, public entities of the instrumental sector of the local public administration that were not necessary, that did not serve anything. Secondly, four years ago most of the Spanish municipalities had an unsustainable economic and financial situation due to their lack of liquidity; today, 97% of the local authorities in Spain have surpluses. Third, four years ago local entities did not pay and accumulated bills for the last ten years. The Government made a payment plan to suppliers that has served to enable 123,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people to receive 2 million invoices worth 11.5 billion euros, and today the average payment period to suppliers from Spanish municipalities is 19 days. Fourth, the Local Government has moved from a deficit of 0.40 in 2011 to a surplus of 0.53 in 2014. Fifthly, all this has been done, in addition, by maintaining and guaranteeing all the public and social services provided by local authorities. I have not heard any spokesperson this afternoon cite any municipality in which any public service or social service has disappeared as a result of the local reform. Do you know why I didn't hear it? Because they can't quote it, since it doesn't exist. I will tell you what the People's Party Government has done to ensure the provision of social services: the FLA, the €700 million social fund for eight autonomous communities to pay their debts to local entities for social expenditure: education, health and social services. Sixthly, where are the massive privatizations announced as a result of local reform? Where are they, ladies and gentlemen? They have not been able to cite any examples. However, I could set as an example, Mrs. Carcedo, some town hall of your community, such as that of Avilés, or Zaragoza, or Vigo, or Soria, or Baracaldo, all governed by the Socialist Party. Seventh, and last, employment. According to you - today you have repeated or insinuated -, thousands of jobs were going to be destroyed with local reform. Ladies and gentlemen, the Local Reform Act was published in the State Official Gazette of 27 December 2013. According to the EPA in the fourth quarter of 2013, that is, December 2013: jobs in the Local Government, 608,000. According to the EPA in the first quarter of 2015, that is, March 2015: jobs in the Local Administration, 618,000. Thus, not only have 10,000 jobs been created in the local government since the local reform came into force. Finally, as prophets they have no price; they confuse their desires with reality. No jobs have been destroyed, no municipalities have disappeared, no public services have been abolished, and social services are guaranteed, provided and will continue to be provided because they are better guaranteed than ever. I'm done, Mr. President. And why are they better guaranteed than ever? Because the accounts have been cleaned up, as I said, and because with local reform essential public services and social services, I repeat, are more and better guaranteed than ever. That is thanks, firstly, to the great management that hundreds, thousands of mayors and councillors have done throughout Spain and, secondly, to the reforms adopted and the measures taken by the People's Party Government, by President Rajoy's Government. Whether you like it or not, ladies and gentlemen, that's the truth. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Matarí. Mrs Carcedo, with regard to the amendment tabled to you by the Plural Left?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u111	Yes, Mr. President. We have agreed on a compromise amendment which is available to the services of the House and which includes a point 2 on the replenishment of cuts in the concerted social services plan.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u112	All right, Mrs. Carcedo. That will be the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u113	Before we vote and see the motions, I would like to say for your knowledge that, as we have agreed at the Spokesman's Meeting, we will see two motions today. First motion, by Mr Tardà, on the acts commemorating the 70th anniversary of the self-liberation of the Mauthausen extermination camp, where more than 7,000 Republicans from the Spanish state and other camps were killed, as well as the end of World War II. Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to send a greeting to the citizens who are here today, members of Mauthausen's Amical and other groups committed to the fight against impunity. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few hours ago, in Mauthausen, the survivors - few and very old - the relatives of victims, leaders of many democracies - Minister Margallo was also present, representatives of social movements and human rights, anti-fascist intellectuals all over the world, have paid tribute to the liberation of the Nazi extermination camps, commemorating this date - I repeat - and paying tribute to the victims. Likewise, events have been held throughout the world to commemorate the end of the Second World War, which meant the defeat of Nazism, the defeat of fascism and the victory of the democratic world, which led to the creation of the United Nations and the birth in Nuremberg of universal justice, which ultimately meant coining the Never Again by criminalization of crimes against peace, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Today, ladies and gentlemen, seventy years later - I insist, seventy - it is in our hands to approve the Spanish State to the rest of the States which also had the misfortune of suffering fascist pasts, to approve us, I say, in all that relates to the reparation of the victims, in this case to the thousands of Republican victims of the Spanish State who were deported to the extermination camps. I am convinced that we owe it to those who have lost their lives - gassed, beaten, shot - who are demanding it from us by the survivors, who are demanding it from us by the absent victims and, above all, I agree that it is essential to strengthen the democratic values of the younger generations, who will have to face the challenges and threats of new violence. This is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, this is the great challenge. We, perhaps naively, had believed that in Nuremberg we had buried the beast 7 meters under the ground and today we discovered with terror the resurgence of new fanaticism, the resurgence of racism, the resurgence of new attempts at genocide and the resurgence of new territorial aggressions. We must combat the trivialization of Nazism and exalt the struggle for freedom and fraternity of people and peoples; for example, also - and this is contained in our motion - exalt the task, the commitment of thousands of Republicans who participated in the Allied armies and in the resistance. Today there is no longer any discussion, political or academic, about the responsibilities of the Spanish State in the deportation of the Republicans to the extermination camps: some, deported directly by the Gestapo; others, from the concentration camps - where they had been transferred, detained as soldiers of the French Army -, camps where the Geneva Convention was respected but where they were taken to the extermination camps; also the 927 civilians of the railway convoy leaving the Les Alliers camp in Angulema. They were all deported because of the agreements established between Berlin and Madrid to declare them stateless. [[Shows a blue handkerchief with the letter S]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Republicans of the Spanish State were marked with the blue triangle, the triangle reserved for stateless persons, because they would have been given the red symbol, reserved for political prisoners. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, for Franco outside the borders there were no citizens of the state, there were only Republicans and therefore stateless. For years the victims have experienced the shame of those who refused to ask for forgiveness, arguing - see what madness - that the Spanish State cannot assume responsibilities because it has nothing to do with the French State. This argument, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of international law is a legal aberration. Does today's Germany have anything to do with National Socialist Germany? Does current France have anything to do with Vichy's France? The continuity of States, ladies and gentlemen, is one thing and their regimes is another. If the German State and the French State have asked for forgiveness, the Spanish State should act in the same way. Who should be responsible for this? This responsibility must lie with the head of State, Philip VI. This is what you have to decide today: whether or not you are told to the current head of state that you have to assume this responsibility of asking for forgiveness on behalf of the Spanish state. Of course, it is enough to say: it is enough to forget and it is enough to the invisibility of the victims. How can we do this here today if you want? We can do this by legally recognizing these victims as victims because, if not, they do not exist; hence our motion incorporates a second point, in which the Spanish Government is urged to introduce a bill to legally recognize the victims because any moral or economic satisfaction can only be derived from legal recognition. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. We ask you to vote in favour of our motion and we ask the Socialist Party and the People's Party to withdraw their amendments. In 2015 it is unacceptable to pretend to liquidate history with an honorary recognition of the few survivors and the release of medals. This is an offence to the victims present, but above all it is an offence to the hundreds of missing victims, because even with it they deny the existence of these 200,000 victims, political prisoners who died in Mauthausen. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by telling you with all emotion and sincerity that you should not once again settle in the anomaly and impunity. They can't pay the victims in fake currency, nor can we even pay each other in fake currency in 2015. We therefore put our initiative to the vote and you, ladies and gentlemen, act accordingly. We are convinced that the day will come when the victims will be repaired in the same way that they have been repaired in other democracies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. As Mr Tardà said, two amendments to this motion have been tabled. Firstly, for the Socialist Group, Mr Torres Mora has the floor to defend his amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Tardà, this debate should end well. It should end a unanimous agreement by the whole House to honor the victims of the Nazi concentration camps, because when it comes to honoring someone, unanimity is essential. I think you will agree with me that the victims of human violence, and in particular of modern political violence, that is, the victims of totalitarianism and terrorism, have a common condition: that their victims dispossessed them of their humanity in order to turn them into things, into means, into instruments. But human beings are no one's instruments. Human beings are ends in ourselves, we are born for life and for freedom, and life and freedom cannot be taken away from us because if they are taken away from us, our human dignity is taken away from us. That is why precisely when we talk about the victims we must be very careful not to add to the ignominy of instrumentalization that their victims made of them a new instrumentalization, ours, even with the best will. You know what I'm talking about, Mr. Tardà. You are an intelligent person; surely if you stop thinking you will realize that the instrumentalization of victims is not something that can only happen to others. My group has tabled an amendment to the motion you have brought. Our goal is to produce a broader agreement. You propose that the head of state, in the name of Spanish democracy, apologize to the victims of Mauthausen, but let me tell you, Mr Tardà, that what they did to the victims of the Nazi concentration camps cannot be forgiven. It is not something that says only me, someone who devoted a lot of intelligence to understanding the meaning of Nazism, Hannah Arendt, wrote: 'When the impossible is made possible, it becomes an absolutely unforgivable and unforgivable evil that can no longer be understood or explained by the evil motives of self-interest, deafness, resentment, anxiety of power and cowardice. Therefore anger cannot avenge, love cannot bear, friendship cannot forgive.' With what right can we ask the victims of the Nazi concentration camps to forgive? Who do you have to forgive? Why do you insist that the Spaniards of democracy ask that the sins of Franco and Serrano Suñer be forgiven? Would you forgive them, Mr. Tardà, if you were in your hand? Moreover, he who asks forgiveness assumes guilt; even if it is vicariously, he assumes the authorship of a crime. Mr Tardà, why do you identify us with the Spanish and the current ones with those criminals? Have you not yet realized that we identify with the victims? Have you not realized that it is the victims we honor and that it is the criminals we deny and reject? Why would we apologize to them? And, on the other hand, who can forgive that? Who has the right to forgive Franco and Serrano Suñer for sending 10,000 of our compatriots to hell? Those two men came to the highest magistrates in our country by a coup against our democracy, not by the vote of our people. On his visit to Mauthausen, President Rodríguez Zapatero said: They left you unjustly without a homeland, because a homeland is only a country with justice and freedom. Those men left us all without a homeland, nothing binds us to them. No, Mr. Tardà, what they did cannot be forgiven. Humanity cannot forgive what those men did to humanity itself. Unfortunately, there is neither forgiveness nor punishment at the height of the crime they committed; no punishment is sufficient, there is no way to get revenge and there is no way to repair with human justice a crime that escapes the human. The thirst of the victims cannot be satisfied; that is what they did to them. They opened the door, a door that has not been closed forever, a door where we have to guard permanently. The Nazis showed that human beings can do things that have no reparation; they showed that everything is possible. Of course democracy must be held accountable for the debts of the dictatorship, but it cannot be held responsible for its faults, and there is a notable difference between one thing and another, Mr Tardà. Our duty, the duty of democratic Spain towards the victims of the Nazi holocaust is a duty of solidarity and recognition, so the best we can do is to honor them without asking for anything in return, without asking them to forgive. And our duty to humanity is to keep the memory of what happened so that it will not be repeated again. If you want us to apologize for the crimes of Franco and Serrano Suñer you will not be able to count on the votes of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; neither today nor ever be able to count on our votes. If you want to honor the victims of the Nazi concentration camps, today you can achieve a unanimous agreement. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Torres Mora. To defend the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, Mr García Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we support the text of the amendment in the terms expressed, but few debates can be presented in which all that is involved in the defence of civilization can be shown and this is one of them. It is because the defense against totalitarian barbarism is the defense of the democratic principles on which we base our coexistence. Paraphrasing Edmund Burke, the great British politician of the eighteenth century, for evil to triumph only requires good men to do nothing, because evil collides. We suffered in the twentieth century, and this generation has a moral and universal obligation not to repeat it again. That is why this debate does not prescribe, this debate is always topical, because good men always have to be alert and alert to denounce the new totalitarian conatos where they appear; they dress in different forms and clothes but let the old dogmatic wolf who waits around the corner for our human contradictions, our earthly weaknesses, our political skirmishes or the tricks of artifice of any social prestigitator. That is why it is important to recognize all those who preceded us in this struggle, that is why it is important to give them a central place within democracy, that is why they must become a reference for future generations. His history must be known, his works and omissions - very human - must be studied, his testimony must be underlined. We must have the necessary freedom to look to the past, so that from it comes true justice, true harmony and let us be a fuller and more human civilization. The central role of victims in any democracy is preceded by their right to memory, dignity, justice and truth. Only the totalitarians want to impose a single version in which, quoting Butterfield, the historian becomes vengeful. That is why we welcome the fact that in the Constitutional Commission this non-legislative proposal was unanimously adopted a week ago, showing the unanimous agreement of where the whole of Spanish society is, looking to the past with forgiveness, to the present with reconciliation and acceptance and to the future with justice. The minister himself, in response to an urgent inquiry, recalled that the Historical Memory Act, in its article 4, provides for and articulates statements of reparation and personal recognition. The Commission quoted Hannah Arendt and her defence of human nature in the origins of totalitarianism, quoted her book Eichmann in Jerusalem and the banalization of the evil to which these Nazi extermination camps were subjected. It was the will of all isms to annihilate those who did not think like them because of the exaltation of their disastrous political projects. We have recently passed a law to grant Spanish nationality to Sephardics and I would like this intervention to pay tribute to those Sephardics who perished in the Holocaust. That is why it is very difficult to understand that any group wants to depart from this tribute that we give to the Spaniards of Mauthausen, as if it were a subject that did not belong to everyone and only belonged to one. We cannot fail to wonder why this attitude, what localism it can obey, how eager to fill everything with local politics empty the content of historical dimension by soiling this initiative. The Spanish delegation that attended the tribute of the victims of Mauthausen was presided over by the foreign minister, in proof of the solemnity and emphasis that it wants to give to the 70th anniversary of this liberation. The minister spoke with the members of Amical de Mauthausen and transferred the best willingness to study these types of initiatives; previously so did President Zapatero. In true international law these are the institutions that represent the State and even have the capacity to become legal acts by obliging the State. Only the frustration of those who fail to understand this can devalue it, perhaps because other authorities of another rank do not have the same effect. But it is not only that, it is the succession of more than eleven rules that have varied the Civil Code from 1982 to the recent historical memory of the Sephardics so that they can choose and regain Spanish nationality all those who for various reasons lost it. They are more than twenty initiatives that have sought the legal, material and social recovery of all those victims of these regimes, but above all it is the Spanish Constitution of 1978, which culminates all the historical efforts of Spain so that we do not live behind each other, a Constitution of concord and political pluralism, of freedom, of justice and which brings us together under that fabulous symbol which is the constitutional flag and not another. What can motivate someone to want to establish a plane of a parallel reality in which international law is questioned by explaining it to their measure, a fictitious and tendentious measure? What is it that a democratic regime has to prove to everyone that there is no one above the law, which is the law, the rule of law precisely what makes us all equal? Or is it that someone wants to prove to us that he's more democrat than anyone? It is as if he wanted to pass from the conflict in Spain he robs us of Spain is guilty, a twist of nut where takes us the transpersonalism of that first phrase that is so undemocratic and that triggers a melodies night after night. We can't stop decorating these Spaniards, because they also remember something that is not going to be able to erase and that shows this photo. [[Show a picture]] These Spaniards believed in a better morning of reconciliation and pluralism, pointing to the true fanatics. These gentlemen were proud to be Spanish, the anti-fascist Spaniards who greeted the liberation forces. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u119	Thank you very much, Mr García Hernández. Mr Esteban has the floor, first of all, for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Tardà, my group congratulates you on bringing this initiative because, lately, memory initiatives, recognition initiatives, are usually dealt with with with some nightly in this House, rather in a Commission of this House, such as the question of the Armenian genocide the other day, and also this issue of concentration camps. If you had not brought it, of course the majority groups would not have brought it for discussion and for voting in plenary, which is where you would really play. That is why we want to add to this memory the victims of the Nazi extermination, and especially those citizens of the Spanish State who were interned in concentration camps, of which more than two hundred were Basque exiles. I also recognize your full right to maintain the initiative as you wish. If you take any of the amendments we will also vote in favour, but you have no doubt that we will do so to the integrity of what you propose in your original. In particular, in the Mauthausen camp, whose 70th anniversary of liberation was commemorated on May 5, they suffered penalties around a hundred Basques and let me refer specifically to them. From the Basque Nationalist Party we want to reaffirm the need for an active public policy of historical memory based on truth, recognition, justice and an impulse from politics and executives. What was intended with the Historical Memory Act unfortunately in this legislature has nothing left for the sake of the active desire of the Government not to implement it and not to finance it. It is fair and pertinent to recall the injustice suffered by all those people of different ideologies - Basques, abertzales, socialists, anarchists, communists - who had to leave their country after the triumph of the Franco uprising and were grouped, in the case of the Basques, in the camp of Gurs above all, in the French Béarn, to then support the appeal of the Basque Government in exile to support France militarily or by mobilizing itself in the fortification of the Maginot Line. Those hundreds, thousands of Republican refugees were forcibly transferred by the Nazis to explosive factories in Strasbourg and then interned in Mauthausen, Dachau or Ravensbrück. This was also possible thanks to Madrid, of course, with the cooperation and consent of the Spanish Government, which did not take a step to prevent it, but provided facilities for it to happen. I want to remember, in memory of all of them, the last Basque survivor in Mauthausen, who died early last year. His name was Marcelino Bilbao Bilbao, a Bizkain anarchist, a lieutenant in an anarchist battalion of the Euskadi army during the Civil War, who had to be exiled and who was arrested and taken to this concentration camp. He was a person who suffered in his flesh medical experiments of the Nazis, because not only did the infamous Mengele of the Auschwitz camp practice medical experiments, but also one Aribert Heim of the Mauthausen camp used to do them. He and 30 other prisoners suffered this kind of experiments and was among the few who survived. A friend whom he found in the field, Vicente Elejalde, another Bilbao who could no longer be beaten by the Nazis, said to him: Bilbao, run!, run!, run!, escape! And the other answered him, "You can't see that I no longer have strength!" Do me a favor - Elejalde told Marcelino Bilbao -, if he manages to return home, tell my parents that I have not bent my back in all these years before Franco. Because for him to be in Mauthausen it was also to be punished by the fascist forces and by the Francoist forces, allies of the Nazis. He did, because Marcelino Bilbao could be rescued by the Americans. He made his way to Paris on foot, like many other prisoners in those camps, who once liberated had to seek life. And, like him, many others witnessed those atrocities. The names of all those people must remain in the memory - I am ending, Mr President - of society as examples of a generation that suffered the greatest unimaginable horrors, but that knew how to fight with dignity against dictatorships and, as Elejalde said, that person, that Basque who died in Mauthausen, without bending his back either before the Nazis or before Franco. We will support your proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor for the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. A few days ago, another proposal was submitted to the Constitutional Commission, which also sought reparation for the victims of Mauthausen. I was able to participate in it and, strangely, truly strange in this Parliament, we all agreed and voted in favour. It is one of the few times that I remember that in a debate - perhaps because its content was symbolic - there would be unanimity. I have to say that it was a good proposition, because it touched on everything fundamental, the essential in a matter like this. That is why I find it rather sad, Mr Tardà - I have to tell you - that you bring here a motion for a party; that is, a motion which, in my opinion - and I say this above all by point number one, as you may suppose - is expressly seeking to re-divide between good and bad, with regard to the historical past, the current Spaniards. You share the roles of those responsible for the crimes committed by Francoism in collaboration with the Nazis and the roles of innocents. Then, the guilty, who are actually ideological heirs, are somehow constrained to ask for forgiveness from the survivors and their ideological heirs. I also agree with one of the comments made here earlier by the two groups which have tabled amendments to this motion. We must start, and it is important, that no reparation be made to victims of extermination camps, genocides or persecutions such as this one we are talking about will ever be sufficient. The most that can be done, and in this there is an almost absolute coincidence on the part of the survivors of such tragedies, is to tell the truth. I am thinking of Primo Levi, Imre Kertész, Jean Améry and many other testimonies, and everyone agrees that the only thing that can be done - and it is already unbearable - is to tell the truth, that everyone knows it. This in Germany has done so in a rather exemplary way as a society. They have told the truth of the Nazi genocide and the collective responsibility not only of the Nazi hierarchs, but for the passivity, or for the tolerance, or for the complicity of much of society and also of some countries that were invaded by the Nazis. I do not want to repeat the argument of the forgiveness that Mr Torres Mora quoted earlier and that I share, but this idea that in asking for forgiveness everything will already be repaired does not cease to be a kind of truly difficult ethical pride to describe. Going to the political-constitutional side, this idea, which has the support of some groups - groups that, by the way, always agree very much in certain historical memory exercises and in others support amnesia, and that seems to me wrong, because when we talk about victims of genocide we have to talk about all of them and not according to their ideas - that the head of state representing Spain has to proceed to ask permission from the Spanish victims of a Nazi extermination that was actually agreed with those responsible for the Franco regime seems to include the idea that the Republicans who went to the Nazi extermination camps were not Spanish. Well, they were. I strongly recommend that you see - I'm sure you're very interested - a documentary that you have at your disposal about Dolores Ibarruri's farewell speech to the International Brigades in Barcelona in 1938. Repeat again and again to the international brigades that they have gone to fight Spain for the Spaniards, not for a different tribe, for a different ethnic group or for strange social groups. There was an enormous awareness among all Republicans that they had a project from Spain that evidently wanted to exterminate Franco. But it is that Philip VI, the head of the present state, is not the ideological heir and, therefore, the one carrying Franco's faults. This is an attempt at partisan, sectarian delegitimization of the current constitutional regime, taking advantage of the history of Mauthausen and the terrible tragedy of the thousands of Spanish Republicans who were massacred in the Nazi camps. What do you want me to say? It draws my attention to the fact that Jorge Semprún - for setting an example of a Republican Spaniard who was in Dachau, who suffered all this and then witnessed it in his almost posthumous book Writing or Life - never asked for forgiveness from the head of state on behalf of anyone. Why? Because he was Spanish and was persecuted by the Nazis as Republican Spanish, but he did not make political differences nor did he believe that the Spaniards had to apologize to him or to the others who ended up in the Nazi camps. Therefore, the orientation of this seems to me frankly wrong. I hate to have to tell you this, but I think it's sectarian. It seems to me to alter the debate about what happened in the Nazi camps. It seems to me that it cannot and should not be party politics with such a question. This is also one of the worst features of totalitarianism that Hannah Arendt brilliantly explained in another important book about the Eichmann process, Eichmann in Jerusalem, when he talked about that what precisely characterizes totalitarianism is the trivialization of evil, not wanting to recognize that evil exists and that they have put it into practice and, therefore, all are legal-political issues that can be used in one way or another. No, we're talking about something that's sacred because you can't touch it, and you can't touch it because we're talking about maximum inhumanity, which you can't explain or understand or forgive. Doing party politics with this seems to me to be something frankly entrepreneurial, unqualified. I encourage you to try to reach a compromise so that you can regain the spirit of the Constitutional Commission and unanimously approve something that, if you cannot unanimously approve, is because you are trying to avoid it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Centella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to start with the photo that the spokesman of the People's Group has taught us, because it is a significant photo. The problem is that those human beings who raised that sign of hope very soon afterwards were defrauded. For hundreds of Spaniards, the problem is that when they believed that they were releasing them and that the troops that were then releasing them were going to liberate their country, they suffered the betrayal of Western countries and allowed for forty years in Spain a dictatorship of the same kind as that which had condemned them to the concentration camps. That is why this debate owes much to those Spaniards who fought in Europe against Nazism, against fascism, and then were betrayed and saw how Western democracies looked elsewhere because they were more comfortable to tolerate Francoism than to establish the Republic in Spain. This is therefore a timely debate. These days when the liberation of Nazifascism is celebrated throughout Europe, in Spain we must draw attention to that betrayal that the Spaniards suffered in Mauthausen and all those who fought for the defense of democracy and the Republic against fascism throughout Europe. They freed Paris, freed Berlin, but then they couldn't free Madrid simply because they looked elsewhere. That is why we from this rostrum have to demand once and for all that justice be done, that it be repaired, that the truth be known of all the crimes of Francoism, because if not what we do here today will simply be an exercise in rhetoric. We can be very supportive today with the victims of Mauthausen, we can be very supportive today with the victims of fascism, but when will we be truly supportive with the victims of Francoism, with those who are still buried in the coves, with those who still have to suffer today the shame of seeing the victims buried next to the executioner, as still in that Valley of the Fallen, the executioner continues to occupy the same space as the victims? Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we do not do that, it will not be possible for us to have any credibility what we are discussing here today. From our ideology we celebrate that victory as our own, because we were very active in defending Europe against fascism, but we also have to suffer that mockery of seeing how we were betrayed. Today's debate is not a semantic debate, it is not a debate on whether the present king, the current head of state, represents the legacy of the dictatorship, is not that debate. The debate is to see if once and for all we ask forgiveness as a society of the victims of Mauthausen, of the victims of fascism, of the victims of Francoism. I say as a society because those who were victims of fascism were not of a criminal madman, they were not of a generation that had gone mad, it was not true, it was a system, it was the defense of interests, also economic. They chose fascism as their most criminal but also most effective form of oppression. That is why our group agrees with the initiative that is being presented, because it believes that it is time to ask all, as a Spanish State, to forgive those victims in solidarity, I repeat, as long as it is linked to a forgiveness of the victims of Francoism. These days are also good for reflection on what is happening in the world right now. When we complain that fascism is again occupying spaces, it is not a coincidence, it is because of a system that finds in fascism the best way to solve its contradictions; an economic system, a social system that understands that fascism is what can best defend its interests. That is why when we oppose the resurgence of fascism at the moment in Europe, we also oppose the system to resolve its contradictions through this form of oppression. From this rostrum today we want to stand on the side of the victims, but remembering that there are victims because there were also executioners and accomplices of the executioners. It is true that no one here today feels heir to the executioners, although some surnames may coincide, although some surnames may be synonymous, but today no one feels heir to the executioners, so we have to be on the side of the victims, and on the side of the victims we cannot be from rhetoric, but from concrete things. This initiative before us places us on the side of the victims of Mauthausen, the victims of Nazism and the victims of Francoism, so our group is fully supportive of it. A technical question. There are two blocs that may have different interpretations, so we would like to vote on points 1 and 2 together and separately on point 3, if the proposer is not inconvenient. I end up paying tribute to all those people who once believed that liberating Mauthausen was also liberating Madrid, that liberating Mauthausen was also ending Francoism. We all have to feel responsible that this was not possible for the betrayal of Western democracies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Xuclà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the last speaker to speak on behalf of my group today in this motion. I have listened carefully to the interpretations made by the various parliamentary groups of the text. Interestingly, there have been very different interpretations from a very concrete text and, since there is no coincidence in interpretation or reading, they will allow me to submit strictly to our reading of the facts. Seventy years have passed since the defeat of Nazism. Last week we remembered and celebrated the liberation of the last Nazi extermination camp, Mauthausen, an expression of an absolute evil that led European democracies to a process of reparation. The reparation, ladies and gentlemen, is only possible through the knowledge, in the first instance, of historical truth. After World War II, after the killing machine assumed by the concentration camps, after 1945, the historical truth began, and it did so in Germany with the Nuremberg trials, with the elaboration of the theory of due obedience and appropriate responsibilities; and it also happened in South American countries when they came out of dictatorships through transitional justice and truth commissions. Our reading of this initiative, our reading of the facts is that there were 7,500 Spaniards deported to the Nazi concentration camps, that there were 4,816 Spaniards killed in the Nazi concentration camps and that, in part, and we want to rely on the facts and the truth, this was possible because the Franco regime covered this fact. They were reprimanded people, Republicans who became stateless people with blue handkerchief and not political prisoners because the Franco regime left them in the hands of the Nazi regime. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the truth. The truth is that the vocation of these Spaniards was to enlist in allied democratic armies to fight for the defeat of Nazism, for a democratic Europe that was born in 1945, 1946, 1947 and to which Spain did not arrive until 1975, 1976, 1979. In this we must agree because this is the truth. No one should be claimed or claimed heir to anything other than this democratic truth. The presence of Minister Margallo this weekend in Mauthausen in a clear signal also of the People's Group in favour of this reparation. Ladies and gentlemen, there are testimonies of this barbarism: Cristóbal Soriano Soriano, Barcelona, ninety-six years old, living testimony that remembers, gives continuity and nourishes the memory of all people who claim the need for reparation. The concepts have been discussed today and I have listened with great attention to those people who deserve my profound intellectual respect. But, ladies and gentlemen, the word forgiveness is not in one line, not once, in the text of this motion as a result of interpellation. Yes, there is the word reparation, and reparation is possible from the recognition of truth, transitional justice, as occurred elsewhere, as occurred in France or Germany. Mr Tardà, from our point of view, it is not a strong point of your motion to ask the head of State for forgiveness, even if the word forgiveness is not in the text, because the head of State is a monarch and the acts of the head of State are acts from the impulse of the Government's initiative. Therefore, it should be the Government, or in any case this House, that takes initiatives in the field of reparation. It seems appropriate to us what was raised in point 3 above. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thirty-seven years ago democracy arrived in Spain thanks to a wider parliamentary agreement in favour of amnesty; and that amnesty had an amnesia point agreed and agreed between all the parties, from the Republican exiles to the former ministers of the Franco regime. Some of us were actors and voted in favour of the Historical Memory Act, which today has been invoked, even by those who did not vote for it. With the Historical Memory Act, we move from amnesty and amnesia to truth; but also, ladies and gentlemen, we have to get to reparation. Today Hannah Arendt has been quoted and the banalization of evil, but neither can we face the banalization of truth. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of this initiative and, by voting in favour, we are going to honour our parents, our grandparents and the tradition represented by the Parliamentary Group on Convergence and Union. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Mr Tardà, although you have said so, but to make it official, what do you do with the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u128	Mr President, we would like to see a vote on the terms in which the motion was tabled and, if we may say so, we accept the proposal put forward by Mr Centella. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u129	All right. That will be done, Mr. Tardà. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS ON HIS POSITION IN ACTION TO AVOID CONSUMPTION AND CONFLICT BETWEEN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INTERESTS. [[File number 173/000211]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u130	Motion by the Socialist Group to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration on its position on actions to avoid confusion and conflict between public and private interests. For the defence of the motion, Mrs Rodríguez Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u131	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my parliamentary group is bringing a motion to this House today calling on the Government to adopt the necessary legislative amendments so that the principle contained in the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime, which establishes the exclusivity of the functions of Members and Senators, can be implemented and we avoid, with a much more restrictive legislative amendment, that the articles regulating this dedication can be circumvented as we have seen done. Secondly, we also urge the Government to take the necessary steps to promote a much stricter and more transparent system of conflict prevention for members of the Government and senior officials. We also urge the Government, once and for all, to apply the Transparency Act to senior government officials. This motion is the result of an interpellation in which I pointed out the other day from this rostrum those behaviors that we have already been denouncing from different members of the Government where the conflict of interest between the public and the private is obvious. I thought when I went up to this rostrum, I couldn't say anything more about Mr. Montoro. However, we have known in the last few hours that also this office of Montoro and Associates, then Economic Team - known as Montoro boys in the economic field -, also received important perceptions from the public company of the government of Mrs Aguirre, by the company Madrid Network. Once again the company that received the most for advice was the company Equipo Económica of Mr Montoro, more than 645,000 euros, ladies and gentlemen. This is indeed Mrs Aguirre's mumbo jumbo, Mr Montoro's and Mr Beteta's. They're always the same, these are the mammoths. [[Applauds]] In addition, we have also been scandalously aware by the press of the behaviour of various colleagues on their bench, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, in relation to their activity with the authorization they had received from this House for the exercise of the law or of offices of economic advice. I say scandals because we have known acts that, as I defended the other day in this rostrum, are illegal, ladies and gentlemen. The Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime is clear and speaks of the incompatibility with the exercise of any public or private activity, the incompatibility with the collection of any remuneration, salary, fees and exceptions are also assessed. Ladies and gentlemen, the perceptions of the former Member and now Ambassador to the United Kingdom, Mr Trillo, and Mr Pujalte, we met them in the course of an investigation by the Tax Agency, an investigation into an alleged organized plot of companies and people to receive illegal bites and charges in the granting of licences for the installation of wind farms. In this investigation of the Tax Agency, the various companies that acted as intermediaries to obtain licenses and sell them, and offices that advised, appeared. There appeared the offices of Mr. Trillo and Mr. Pujalte with Senator Ana Torme today. It is therefore clearly illegal because for this reason it has never been authorized by this House. We then also know the situation of Mr Conde's private activity. Mr Conde said that it was legal because he had obtained an authorization from the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy to administer in a single way the legal advice Conde and Esteban and to practice as a lawyer without direct relation to the public sector. For this purpose he obtained the authorization of the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy, but it was expressly mentioned that it would not be involved in Article 159(2), which expressly prohibits - Mr Count - acting as chairman of a board of directors, managing councillor, director general, manager or equivalent of credit institutions or insurers or any company or entity having a fundamentally financial purpose. Mr. Count, you have given no explanation of what we have known with scandal that you are the legal representative of the real estate subsidiary of Banco Santander, Altamira Real State, advisor to this credit institution, the owner of the Santander Holding Company Fund Manager and sole administrator of an energy company, which you considered you did not have to declare. Ladies and gentlemen, this is illegal; this is illegal, if that is true. If a member of this House is exercising these functions, it is illegal. The question we all have to ask ourselves is, what can we do? How does the Committee on the Statute of the Deputy act when obtaining an authorization have hidden data, been falsified or clearly and flagrantly breaching article 159, paragraph 2, of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, which regulates the incompatibilities of senators and deputies. The Committee on the Statute can do something, for the moment it can gather and investigate the veracity of this data, which my group has requested, which, together with the Joint Parliamentary Group, has asked to be convened, because it does not do so, but in fact it has little competence to act. We understand that the Committee on the Statute of the Member and this plenary must act when the law is being mocked. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the motion we are voting on today, we ask for two things: firstly, that the compatibility regime should of course be restricted and that only the functions of deputy and senator can be exercised and compatible with intellectual activities of literary creation, with activities as representatives of a political party, of the leadership of a trade union, of participation in disputes without charging a single euro. And it's over, there's no more exceptions because they've made too much fun. Secondly, that the Committee on the Statute of the Member has real powers to investigate the veracity of the data being provided when authorization is requested only for these creative activities and those which I have cited without remuneration. Thirdly, that it may make an instruction and impose on the Congress of Deputies the corresponding sanctions when there is a risk of concealment, falsification or flagrant breach of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also demand that the Government...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u132	Mrs. Rodriguez, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u133	I'm finishing up, President. We must urge the Government to comply with the Transparency Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the Transparency Act which the Government continually appeals to in its speeches when it speaks of democratic regeneration and has not been applied to the high offices that have been appointed before the publication of the Transparency Act. When the tax data of senior officials are requested to be published, it is in order to be able to compare the same data when they leave the Government, but the Government that appointed them before 2013 clearly and with obstructive attitude is preventing us from knowing the declarations of assets and interests of senior officials. For the only thing that has served the Transparency Act is for some to whiten their curriculum and, for example, the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Economy has deleted from the transparency portal that also belonged to Montoro and Associates. [[Rumors]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to our motion in which we call for the immediate dismissal of the Spanish Ambassador to the United Kingdom for having been caught in a clearly illegal action, advising a company that is being investigated and that is in the midst of a plot of corruption...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u134	Mrs. Rodriguez, as usual, it has to end. I realize it'll be interesting what you're saying, but it has to end. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u135	Let me explain the amendment, President, and I'm done, really. Only the amendment. Apart from this, I told them that we have tabled an amendment, which they do not like, in which we urge the Government to take the necessary measures so that Mr Alfonso Rus cannot remain in the public office of President of the Valencian Parliament... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u136	Mrs Rodríguez Ramos, you have tabled a self-amendment which is accepted by you, of course, and which you know all Members of Parliament. It can't go on; it must end.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u137	I'm done. Don't get nervous when I talk about Mr. Rus. [[Protests]] I'm telling you, Mr. Rus can't stay in...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u138	Mrs Rodriguez, it seems a lie that you, who have been a spokesman, have not learned more from the functioning of Congress. I have to take the floor because it's been four minutes. Leave the rostrum because you can't go on anymore, Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u139	I would have liked, Mr President, for you to have had the same benevolence with me over time as you had with the speakers of the previous motion. [[Mr. Matarí Sáez: That's a lie, a lie!- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u140	Mrs Rodríguez, you have exceeded yourself three times as much as any of those who have intervened this afternoon, so you must step down from the rostrum. End up saying good-bye. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u141	I ask all of you, but especially the Members of the Group of the European People's Party, to vote in favour of this motion, and when you say that you are so outraged... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u142	Mrs. Rodriguez, you have to come down and I feel like you're leaving like this but you've been busy. Abandon the rostrum. [[A Member of Parliament: What a piece of paper!]] It seems that no more amendments have been tabled than the self-amendment, which is, of course, accepted. For the Basque Group, Mr Azpiazu has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. The motion we are debating today, despite the time it is, is extremely topical and interesting, and unfortunately it is because every day we know of new cases of corruption and irregular or unethical behaviour by many political leaders, too many political leaders, unacceptable behaviours that require exemplary and forceful measures that do not cast any doubt on the will of politicians and parliamentary groups to avoid corruption and bad practices. The citizens, who are the ones who vote for us, demand it and it must be. It would be impossible for me to vote for a candidate involved in irregularities or corruption. So, as the Socialist Group proposes, let us change the rules that are precise. This is the right place for this, let us clearly establish the incompatibilities, taking into account a fundamental principle, the non-obligatoryness of being a Member; no one is obliged to do so. If one is lucky enough to be proposed and accepted, I would dare say that incompatibility should be total, total incompatibility, total dedication to parliamentary activity and thus total freedom to defend the general interests of citizens without mortgages. I know that this may be excessive or naive on my part, but that is what I think and what my group thinks. However, if it is not feasible to go that far, it seems a reasonable approach which the Socialist Group proposes today in the first paragraph. Of course, the Committee on the Statute of Deputies must also have full capacity to work, investigate and make timely decisions in relation to the activities of Members of this House, as should the Senate's homologous Committee. The absolute transparency of the assets and assets of senior management officials is also required. We cannot and must not leave any doubt or doubt about the transparency and the need to control and demand exemplary behaviour of politicians and senior officials of the General Administration of the State and the General Courts. Ethics in politics must be the guide in discourses, yes, but above all it must be in behaviors. And, therefore, it is more than questionable and critical of behaviour when I was a Member of the current Ambassador to the United Kingdom. That the Government should take action on this would give us all a positive signal that citizens expect from the People's Group and the People's Party, after so many negative examples that have given us many people who are campaigning under their acronyms and who take advantage of them to enrich themselves illegitimately. That is why we shall vote in favour of the motion tabled by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. I shall speak briefly to say that my group also agrees with this motion. We believe that one of the biggest deficits and shortcomings in our parliamentary system, not only in the Congress of Deputies but in many other institutions - but we are talking about ourselves, the Congress of Deputies - is the weakness of the incompatibility regime. All that is progressing and moving towards a justified exclusive dedication is good for us. That it also has the capacity to determine the veracity of the data to the Commission of the Statute of the Member, too. What would also be important is to progress in that if someone lacks the truth and hides remuneration or contractual relations with companies, that has consequences, not merely moral, but also legal and political. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Plural Left Group, Mr. Centella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u147	Mr President, this issue that is brought to our attention, together with others that we have discussed in previous weeks, highlights the reasons why the People's Party has blocked and annulled any possibility of reforming the Rules of Procedure of this House and also shows that the People's Party was comfortable with a regulation that allowed it to handle certain circumstances in its own right. Therefore, one can only regret the frustration of having devoted some time to this issue when it was clear that in advance the People's Party did not have the will to make a regulation that would allow it to deal with situations that should have been resolved long ago. It is a pity that this debate is being raised at this stage, not only in the legislature, but without another element that must also be highlighted every time a subject is discussed which concerns the mixing of the public with the private. The People's Party is leading the entire legislature by blocking the possibility of this House investigating and clarifying situations that today on the street are a requirement; for example, how the People's Party has been financed almost since its founding, because also in the confusion of the public and the private the public accounts are mixed with the private accounts of the People's Party. That is why it is an initiative that puts the finger in the sore, as the spokesman of the Socialist Group has proposed and explained. It is true that our legislation lacks that separation, that clarity, so that Members of Parliament can devote themselves fully to the exercise of what should be their activity, which is no longer principal but practically exclusive, which is to represent those who have elected them. At the moment putting the finger in the sore, showing clearly that when the public is mixed with the private it is always done to the detriment of the public and to the benefit of the private it is an element that favors the quality of this democracy, which is being questioned, but this House does not react. The absolute majority of the People's Party has endeavoured in this legislature to make deaf ears to citizens' demands, which increasingly highlight how this party remains more anchored in the past than even looking at its own future. The only thing they get from this evidence is nothing more or less than to appear that they have much more to cover than to clarify. You stand on the defensive and show that you fear much more than you should. Therefore, they should be no longer bold - maybe that's not in their DNA - but at least smarter to keep them from being put under suspicion, because they are. They may hide their heads under the wing, but they are under suspicion because more and more evidence shows how the public has been mixed with the private. The motion before us comes to resolve some elements that, I repeat, should be resolved many years ago. It is also true that when you raise such a motion a group that has spent so much time in the government can tell you that at good hours green sleeves, but it is never too late if the bliss comes. We therefore agree to vote in favour of this proposal. It is true that we could have proposed an addition, but we have not done so in order not to prolong the debate further and not to disturb it. We could have proposed adding the former presidents and by that putting the finger on the sore about who, as a former president, mixes the public with the private. With that element they could have done a self-criticism exercise that also suits them from time to time. Clearly, when you're a former president, you mix the public with the private, and that should end. That is the only addition we could have proposed throughout the debate, but, as I said, it is a timely proposal. It is also appropriate to point out that, as has been shown, those who are now ambassadors to the United Kingdom have mixed the public with the private sector, and the Government should react to this. We are going to vote for the initiative as it stands, but not without saying that the Socialist Party is still looking forward, but it will have to look inside and once and for all to put an end to that situation of the former presidents, which is still embarrassing for many Spaniards because they continue to mix the public with the private. Having said that, I repeat that we will vote in favour of the proposal before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. For the Catalan Group, Mrs Surroca has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion defended today by the Socialist Group reopens a debate which has already taken place in this House on previous occasions. We talk about the system of incompatibilities of deputies and senators and also about the conflict of interests of members of the Government and senior officials of the General Administration of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, this is an important issue that has to do with the very essence of one of the fundamental institutions of our democratic system; it has to do with the concept that we defend from the representatives of the citizens. What representatives do we want, ladies and gentlemen? Do we defend a transversal, plural or closed concept in which only a few can represent citizenship? We have made that clear; we have always defended the same thing and are not prepared to campaign with a simplistic argument for an issue like this, which is essential for our democratic system. What exactly does this motion seek? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u150	Excuse me a moment, Congresswoman. Please, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Group calls, first, for the Government to be urged to extend the regime of incompatibilities of deputies and senators regulated by the Constitution and the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime. Secondly, it calls for the reform of the Commission on the Statute of Deputies so that, apart from preparatory functions, it has more capacity to verify the truthfulness of the facts that are being declared, and to investigate and propose sanctions in plenary. We could agree on that particular point. We believe that a major change must be made in the Commission on the Statute of Deputies. We had an opportunity to talk about this in the paper on the reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure, but, unfortunately, we have not been able to reach that agreement for the in-depth reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure, which is what we need. Thirdly, they call for stricter and more transparent regulation for the prevention of conflicts of interest of senior officials and members of the Government. We agree, although we must also remind you that a few months ago a new law has been passed in Congress and in the Senate that has much to do with this issue. They also speak of implementing the second final provision of the Transparency Act, although you request that it be applied retroactively in certain cases of appointments prior to the entry into force of the law. Finally, they call for the immediate cessation of the Spanish ambassador to the United Kingdom. How do we position ourselves from Convergence and Union? We have already said this; we will not do an electoral battle on this issue. Why? Because we understand that this is an essential issue for our democratic system. We are talking about the representation of citizens and what model we want for our democratic system, what system we want. Let us go to some of the specific issues that you raise. As for the regime of incompatibilities, what are we going to do? We are going to remain faithful to the work of the paper and to the draft that is being processed in the Parliament of Catalonia, a proposal for a law of electoral regime for Catalonia. There is also a system of incompatibilities for deputies very similar to the Organic Law of General Electoral Regime. By the way, the Socialist Party of Catalonia has said nothing about it, at no time has it defended what you are presenting here today. If we look at the current framework of our system of incompatibilities, we will see that it is very similar to what other countries in our environment, for example, Germany, establish. In Germany, the Bundestag's code of conduct establishes a system of incompatibilities very similar to that provided for in the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime. From France, Belgium, Portugal and Italy I can tell you exactly the same; they have a system of incompatibilities very similar to ours. With regard to the prevention of conflicts of interest between members of the Government and senior officials of the General Administration of the State, he said that a few weeks ago we passed a law that goes in that direction; our parliamentary group voted in favour of that bill. Therefore, in order to be consistent, we understand that we have to wait a prudent, adequate time, in order to evaluate the proper functioning of that law or not. In any case, we'll have to act later, but not sooner. In short, we understand that this is an initiative of aparator, electoralist, simplistic, that even the Socialist Group itself is not able to comply because you have adopted an ethical code that goes precisely in that line of establishing a very restricted compatibility regime and, in fact, you would have to explain to us whether you are actually complying with it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u152	Mrs. Surroca, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u153	Mr. President, I'm done. They'd have to explain if they were doing it, but I don't think that's the case either. In short, our parliamentary group cannot support this initiative and announce that we are going to abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u154	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. For the People's Group, I have the floor, Mr Rafael Merino.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Rodríguez, after your speech I understand why you have moved from row one to row four of your bench. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this motion tabled by the Socialist Group is more the result of your own misunderstanding and friendly fire than of genuinely fighting problems in this country. But I prefer it to be the fruit of bad intention rather than the fruit of incapacity, incompetence and ignorance. Mrs Rodríguez, I will tell you point by point what you have raised. The first point concerns the Congress of Deputies, but you did not present this proposal as an amendment at the time of the presentation of the reform of the Rules of Procedure. The second point of your motion, Your Honor, was approved by this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies on February 19, 1990, ma'am; on February 19, 1990, Congress approved the second point that you are asking for. The third point, Your Honor, is the competence of this House, not the Government of Spain, which is the executive branch; do not confuse the division of powers. Fourth point, Your Honor, has already been made by the Government of Spain; read the rules adopted here and approved by the Government of Spain. Fifth point, it is being developed by the Government of Spain; read the bulletins, ma'am. In the sixth point you request the cessation of someone who has complied with the law, Your Honor. When I ran for office on November 20, 2011, I thought I was coming to the Congress of Deputies, not the Inquisition Tribunal, which is what you did here today. [[Applauds]] This speech I am making today is addressed to the absentee, who is currently in the Basque Country, who is the most responsible of the Socialist Party and the Socialist Group. I guess now, in the Basque Country, you'll be saying phrases like these: If what you've done is legal but unethical, you have to drop your charges. [[Showing several press clippings]] Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Socialist Group, is this ethical? Is this legal? Should I resign? [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Yes, yes.]] The answer will not be given by the Group of the European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, the answer will not be given by us; the answer must be given by you and Mr Sánchez. Perhaps, Mrs. Rodriguez, that was your intention with regard to your successor, perhaps. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Your Honor, you come today to give lessons here, but when you were a spokesperson for your group: 32% of that bench exercising private activities such as lawyers; consulting - we don't know what -; partners of solar companies, which receive bonuses from the government; international advice for which no validation or compatibility is requested; partners of lawyers' companies that we doubt comply with the General Statute of the Law... [[Show a document]] All this, ma'am, when you were a spokesman for the Socialist Group. This motion, urged by Mr Sánchez on behalf of his party, is the greatest demonstration of cynicism, hypocrisy, incoherence and political opportunism. In the motion they mix everything in a desperate search for the vote. You have caused, ladies and gentlemen, television broadcasts by fellow Members of the People's Group; you have caused television broadcasts, but today you will have to reflect, in the light of the information that comes out, if those very television broadcasts that you have intended to make today with fellow Members of the People's Group do not have to apply them yourselves because, ladies and gentlemen, you always look in front of but never look at your seats, never look at your seats. I will not give names, ladies and gentlemen, because I have respect for all Members. [[Protests]] You know what, Your Honor? I believe in democracy and justice; I do not do as you do, Madam you denounce, condemn, judge. [[Mrs Rodríguez Ramos: Your Honor]] That's what you did here today. You see, Ambassador Trillo has complied with the rules of this Parliament, which he has not made his fellow Members; Ambassador Trillo has asked for compatibility and has carried out his activities legally, as other fellow Members of this parliamentary group have done. Mr Sánchez and members of the Socialist Group, you are calling for responsibilities for actions prior to December 2014. Are you and your colleagues in previous legislatures in a position to appear in the Committee on the Statute of the Member for explanations? Are you, Mrs Rodríguez, in a position, as ex-Secretary of State, to say and maintain that all the subsidies you gave as Secretary of State was public money that you knew who you were giving and why you were giving it to? Do you know that, Mrs. Rodriguez? [[Several Members: Yes, yes]] [[Protests.-A honourable Member: What are you saying?]] [[Protests]] Don't get nervous, don't get nervous... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u156	Let's see. [[Protests.- Mrs Rodríguez Ramos asks for the floor]] Quiet. Mrs. Rodriguez will have her turn when the time comes. Mr. Merino, it's been a minute, you have to finish in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u157	I'm done, Mr. President. [[Rumors]] Their nervousness gives them away, ladies and gentlemen; their nervousness gives them away. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, to be a little more responsible. Do not play the game to those who are pretending to end the regime that we all gave ourselves in 1978 or to those others who say that those born before 1978 do not serve, because this motion that you have tabled today simply helps them and not democracy. What you have raised today is an attack on democracy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u158	Mr. Merino, you have to finish immediately.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u159	I'm done. I hope and wish, Mrs Rodríguez, to withdraw this motion and above all to apologize for the words you have said from this rostrum to Members of the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u160	Thank you, Mr. Merino. Mrs Rodriguez, you have the floor, but exactly for the reference that has been made to you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u161	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. With all due respect, if Mr Merino does not have any arguments to defend the actions of the fellow Members of the Committee to whom I referred, I ask him, Mr President, to go back to the rostrum and to explain clearly what subsidy in the exercise of my post as ex-Secretary of State for Cooperation he referred to. If you do not, Mr Merino, it seems to me that what you have done in that rostrum is an absolutely false accusation. Or you go out to the rostrum, Mr. Merino, and you say exactly what subsidy... president, president... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u162	Mrs. Rodriguez, your argument has been clear and is being seen. You asked Mr. Merino to say what subsidy. He's already done it. Sit down. Mr Merino, you have the floor to respond to what Mrs Rodriguez has said, not to speak in general.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Rodríguez, it seems to me that after this intervention you will continue to climb ranks from your bench. [[Laughter]] Mrs. Rodriguez, I haven't made a statement. You're the one who doesn't even listen. I asked him... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u164	Please, I beg your silence. You have one minute Mr. Merino to explain himself and then I will deal with the incident. Mr. Merino, speak, but focus on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u165	I'm focused on the matter. [[Laughter]] I'm focused; the one I see is Mrs. Rodriguez. [[Protests]] Mrs Rodríguez, you did make statements from fellow members of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u166	Mr Merino, you do not have the floor. You don't have the floor because you're not answering what you've been told. Mrs Rodríguez has asked you about a specific point and it seems that you are saying that you have not said anything in particular, but you have asked her if she feels responsible, which remains like a settled incident. [[Rumors.- Mr. Count Bassen asks for the floor.]] Mr Count, you have been told by Mrs Rodriguez a number of subjects. I have the floor to answer exactly what Mrs Rodriguez has alluded to.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u167	Mr President, thank you for reminding me of the wording of the Rules of Procedure. I am asking for the floor because, after Mrs Rodríguez's speech, I cannot fail to speak in this plenary to say that I have fulfilled and fulfilled my obligations scrupulously, as I have had occasion to argue before the Committee on the Statute of the Member and I will be very pleased to do as many times as it is requested. [[Rumors]] Fortunately, the honour of Members does not depend on the torturing performance of the most mediocre spokesman the Socialist Group has ever had. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u168	Given the situation, in two minutes we will vote. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the vote. [[Mr Heredia Díaz asks for the floor]] Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group calls for the serious accusations and disqualifications that have been made in the last debate not to appear in the 'Diary of Sessions'. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u170	Mr Heredia, in fact, you are right, above all there are personal disqualifications that add nothing to the debate. I will instruct the services of the House to disqualify these disqualifications from the debate. [[Applauds.-Protests]] I mean all the personal disqualifications that have been poured out by one and the other. Personal disqualifications will disappear [[Rumors]] We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u171	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Parliament of Catalonia, which is an organic amendment to the Organic Law of the Judiciary and other related rules, in the field of linguistic rights in the field of justice. There are 2 votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 301 plus 2 telematics votes, 303; in favour, 132; against, 169 plus 2 telematics votes, 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u172	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u173	Proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, reforming the Law of 18 June 1870 establishing rules for the exercise of pardon. There are 2 telematic votes. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 301 plus 2 telematics votes, 303; 134; 166 plus 2 telematics votes, 168; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u174	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u175	No bill by the People's Parliamentary Group on the use of shared platforms and services in public administrations. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 297 votes in favour, 167 against, 127 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u176	It's approved. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the return to local authorities of competence in the provision of social services and promotion and social reintegration. [[File number 162/001230]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u177	No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the return of powers to local authorities in the provision of social services and in the promotion and reintegration of society. There is an amendment tabled by the United Left and a compromise has been reached, which is what we are going to vote on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 296 votes in favour, 127 against, 163 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u178	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u179	Motion of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Tardà, on the events commemorating the 70th anniversary of the self-liberation of the Mauthausen extermination camp, where more than 7,000 Republicans from the Spanish State and other camps were killed, as well as the end of World War II. We shall vote on it on its own terms, but on points. Firstly, we voted on points 1 and 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour, 38 against, 166 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u180	They're rejected. We now vote on point 3 of the motion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 301 votes in favour 135 against 166.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u181	It's rejected. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS ON HIS POSITION IN ACTION TO AVOID CONSUMPTION AND CONFLICT BETWEEN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INTERESTS. [[File number 173/000211]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u182	Motion by the Socialist Group to the Minister of Finance and Public Administration on his position on actions to avoid confusion and conflict between public and private interests. It is voted on its own terms, with the self-amendment that the Socialist Group has tabled. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour, 120 against, 167 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-12-CD150512.u183	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was nine thirty-five minutes of the night.
