ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with the agreement of the Board of Spokespersons, the Government's communication for the general policy debate on the state of the Nation and the Government's President's appearance to report on the European Council held on 18 December 2014 are discussed jointly. I give the floor to the President of the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 19 December 2011, when I came to this House to apply for the investiture, just over three years ago, I said to them: "... a country where thousands of jobs are destroyed every day cannot be allowed to hesitate to point out priorities. I therefore intend to dedicate all the capacity of the Government and all the forces of the nation to stop the bloodshed of unemployment, stimulate growth, and accelerate the return to job creation." These were the priorities I pointed out for this legislature and which the House accepted: halting the bleeding of unemployment, stimulating growth, and accelerating the return to job creation. That is why it is reasonable to ask what degree of development that commitment is today, otherwise said, what the state of the nation is with regard to what I myself proposed in this House. The priorities could not be other; by the end of 2011 companies were closed down without interruption, investments disappeared, there were not even prospects for growth, and 3,200 people lost their jobs every day. Another thing is that it was easy to address those priorities; it was not at all. We had to meet the expenses of every day with the empty box; the tax revenues had collapsed as the debt grew dizzy; our credit was a memory; we had very little confidence in our ability to repay the loans, so the money we needed came out very dear - remember the escalations of the risk premium -; there was a certain risk of bankruptcy; the intervention surrounded us as a threat; we were clear candidates to exit the euro. I do not need to insist, ladies and gentlemen, because even if it seems to be a lie, all this was happening now just three years ago: a cold, desolating winter panorama. Then we had to endure a daily battle against those who pushed us to ask for the ransom. I do not even want to think about what the economic consequences would have been, and above all the social consequences of accepting intervention; I will refer to that later. The case is that we did not accept it, we wanted to get the country out of the jam, restore the productive fabric, stop the disappearance of jobs, regain confidence, but we wanted to do so without external intervention, without stopping acting like a sovereign country, without giving up control of our destiny, without leaving all the Spaniards who could not cross the desert by their own means. We had to devote two whole years to straightening out that disaster, two hard years of effort and renunciation in order to settle the accounts. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that all we could save was going to pay off the interest on the debt, because it was not yet known whether we were reliable. It was two years of tightness, with no more support than hope, because as it is natural the penalties were suffered, but they did not take the rewards. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, and from the distance that marks the time that has passed and the obvious change of situation, it is fair to acknowledge that the Spaniards have paid a very high price to remember some elementary principles that should never be forgotten again, principles such as that one cannot spend what one does not have, that one cannot live by borrowing, and that one must count very slowly and with much tine the money that we ask of the people. [[Applauds]] The case is that, despite all sorts of difficulties, we are able to regain confidence, credit, and above all job creation. [[Rumors.-Mr. MP: Come on!]] I will not abound in facts that you know; I have just a few facts to reflect the situation in that objective and indisputable way that numbers offer. For six years employment was destroyed; it began to be created; in 2013 employment was still falling to 3.3%; in 2014 it grew to 0.8%; the advance of net employment reached 440,000 people; this in plain language means that the situation has been reversed, ladies and gentlemen, we have stopped the fall, stopped destroying jobs, and we are opening the doors to employment, which was exactly what we had proposed at the beginning of the legislature, and for some it seemed unattainable. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain started this economic recovery by looking outside, regaining its competitiveness. Our exports grew even at the worst times, and served us to better withstand the hard years 2012 and 2013. Today, external sales already account for about 33% of Spain's gross domestic product; they have increased in recent years more than in any other G-7 economy except Germany. We balanced our external balance and stopped the debt spiral that caught us. Spain, which grew for years through debt abroad, today produces and sells enough goods and services to finance all its purchases abroad. This, ladies and gentlemen, has not happened in our country since 1998, and this has not been a coincidence or a gift. The number of companies that export regularly has grown by more than 22% since 2011; many of our entrepreneurs started their external adventure in a process that no longer has a return; the Spanish economy is becoming more and more internationalized, and laying the foundations for a more solid and diversified development. The fact that our prices have evolved even better than those of Germany, the most competitive economy of economic and monetary union, has been no exception in this phenomenon. Our products are attractive by quality, but also by price, something we had lost in a not so distant past. We regained the confidence of the outside world when international investors saw that Spain was competitive and could hold on without debt. The risk premium started to drop, we went from exceeding 635 basic points in 2012 to just over 100 – actually today it's just under 100 – today. Some think that this was a gift from the European Central Bank, but all the measures of the European Central Bank would have been useless if Spain had remained a country with very low competitiveness. There are some examples - today in the foreground - that very clearly ratify what I have just said to you. But fortunately this has not been the case in our country, thanks to the package of structural reforms that we have adopted throughout this parliamentary term. Ladies and gentlemen, by mid-2013, when six quarters of the legislature had passed, we achieved what many thought impossible: that Spanish economic activity would begin to grow, reversing the economic recession that we inherited in its day. We have been growing month by month for a year and a half. We have closed 2014 with an increase in our gross domestic product of 1.4%, and it is the first year that it has grown since the beginning of the crisis. Moreover, our expansion is no longer just a product of the external sector. Families and businesses have regained confidence and their ability to consume and invest, internal and external demand is harmonized, and the goods and products we produce by the Spaniards are attractive to cover both. Households already perceive some improvement in their budgets as shown by retail sales data, vehicle registration data, and new mortgages, all of which are in sharp growth. Consumer confidence measured by the different indices, both national and international, is at its highest historical level, and optimism about Spain's expectations is rekindling. Thanks to the restructuring of the financial system, credit or, rather, the lack of credit, that dogal that has strained us in recent years, is lagging behind. In 2014, the new operations of small and medium-sized enterprises with financial institutions increased by 9 %, the largest percentage increase since the start of the series in 2004, and in addition the cost of these operations has fallen substantially. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the completion of this process is job creation. 2014 is the first year of the crisis, since 2006, when employment is created and unemployment is reduced. With the data of January 2015 we can already say that there are 74,000 registered unemployed less than in the first month of the legislature, in January 2012, and we can also say that with the data of Eurostat of December - last known data - in Spain there are 156,000 less unemployed than since the first month of the legislature. In addition, one in two jobs that were created in 2014 - according to the EPA - was indefinite. In other words, although much remains to be done, we are improving and covering the stages more and more quickly. And this is sustained and stable growth, with solid foundations that, if we do not twist the course, can be maintained and accelerated. Spain will meet its deficit targets in line with our European commitments; we will maintain an external surplus, thereby reducing our debt to the rest of the world; our prices will keep the path of decline thanks to the fall in oil prices and stability in other goods and services, which maintains our purchasing power and at the same time allows us to gain competitiveness from the outside. Thanks to this and thanks to the effort of all the Spanish economy will create between 2014 and 2015 around a million net jobs, thus fulfilling the commitment I acquired in this House with all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation of the Spanish economy today. I no longer need to bring promises or encourage hopes; we have something better: solid facts that are felt, measured, and counted because they are objective realities. The state we are debating today is that of a nation that has emerged from the nightmare, has rescued itself, has regained economic confidence, enjoys prestige, is once again attractive to investors, has reordered its operation, and sees consumption and investment grow. [[Applauds]] A nation in which economic activity is increasingly turning, and as a result, employment is already beginning to grow and the number of unemployed, which was the great goal for this legislature, is shrinking. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not need a decade, I am talking about three years. This is what took Spain to get up after the fall. Only the speed of our recovery can be compared with the speed with which we sank before. Spain has gone from being a country on the verge of bankruptcy to becoming the example of recovery in which other countries of the European Union are now being identified. Spain is no longer a problem for Europe, nor does it need a rescue, nor does it have to leave the euro; that is not what we are talking about. Spain is no longer in the press headlines or in the talks of European leaders or international institutions, except for good; others occupy those headlines. That country that we receive sunk into ruin is one of the fastest growing in Europe and one that creates the most employment; that country to which, in order to lend money, we had to take precautions and apply unbearable interests to it, now finds all the open doors and the lowest interest rates in our history. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have sent letters to three months at an interest of 0%; today. [[Applauds]] No other country in difficulty has seen anything like it. From there, everyone values things as he sees fit. I, ladies and gentlemen, stick to what those who do not have to campaign in Spain say. All the countries of the world and all the international forums are setting Spain as an example of the economic recovery for what it has done and for the prospects offered to it, and it is not that they praise the current situation itself - which would already be a lot - that they praise the current situation compared to the one we have received, that is, measure the leap we have taken from the deepest. That's why the merit seems double, and they confess it. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has done what it had to do, but the merit lies with Spain and the Spanish. [[Applauds]] To this has contributed everyone: the autonomous communities, the municipalities, the workers, the officials, the entrepreneurs, the families. The results show that this nation, when guided with responsibility, knows how to respond, overcome and act, because it has resources, with ambition and - I do not forget - with that spirit of solidarity that everyone recognizes in the Spanish, because it comes out in all adversities and without which the journey would have been much more ungrateful. Ladies and gentlemen, I told you two years ago in this House, in a debate like today's: the Spaniards have shown that they are not children. They were aware of the difficulties, and were able to distinguish perfectly what helped them from what hurt them. They did not confuse what they might like with what was right for them at that dramatic time. In better or worse humor, with greater or lesser resignation, they accepted the sacrifices, accepted the inevitable, understood that it was time to take ourselves seriously, and to fight hard for our own future. Today we can say with satisfaction that they did so. The Spaniards know how to live up to the circumstances, they have reason to be proud of what they have done and of the results obtained with so much effort. But said this, ladies and gentlemen, I add something else. We still have a lot to do. Of course we've got a lot left! Let us not confuse the end of an act with the end of the work. We know what we're missing. The unemployment rate is still too high; many Spaniards have been out of work for over a year, and many more than two; the youth unemployment rate remains unacceptable. We have much to do, but we have created the conditions to do so; now we know that we can do it. We have taken a giant step that in itself is the best stimulus to accelerate our march, because if in three years we have managed to overcome among all the most difficult, that was to stop the fall, to turn the situation around, to recover the brio and to begin the progress, what can prevent us, if we persevere, to accelerate the pace of growth, to consolidate well-being and to recover employment. Only one thing: ourselves - and then I will refer to it, ladies and gentlemen -. Now I want to refer to the welfare state. The economic crisis in Spain not only led to a fall in the economy, an unprecedented increase in unemployment, and a major fall in tax revenues, in particular, ladies and gentlemen, of €70 billion. All of this jeopardized the maintenance and quality of our basic public services, as is perfectly understandable; in addition, the economic crisis led to an increase in social inequality, the risk of poverty and social exclusion at a much faster pace than in the European Union as a whole. And it could not be otherwise: the fundamental reason for inequality is unemployment, and its rise has been unstoppable in the years of the crisis. Few things are more unfair than the fact that someone can't have a job to hold on to. It is obvious that the challenge presented to this Government was not limited only to correcting the major macroeconomic imbalances and job creation; it had to be done by preserving the fundamentals of our social welfare system. It was therefore a question of bringing forward all of Spain, not loose fragments of it; of not leaving anyone behind and less the weakest, those who were going through the worst, those who at the time were strongly welcomed by family warmth or altruistic aid, who fortunately have never been lacking in a country of solidarity like ours. We wanted to get out of the crisis all together, without social tears, without the circumstances or our interventions deepening inequalities. And it was not easy, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows it; it was not easy because there was no money. The collection had fallen by that 70 billion euros. It's not really that it wasn't easy, it's that it was very difficult. There were many who assured that it was not possible to achieve what we intended, a kind of square of the circle that consisted of recovering the economy by reducing the deficit, making structural reforms, and at the same time maintaining the bulk of social spending. And as they said it was not possible they encouraged us to ask for the ransom - they encouraged us, for not using another expression -. But we didn't, ladies and gentlemen. That was the big decision of the legislature. That was the great measure of social policy of this legislature: avoiding rescue; the best. [[Applauds]] We wanted to decide about ourselves, and while others were forced to take drastic measures, we were able to fix some red lines that we were not going to cross. And we didn't. The rescue is relentless, it does not consider the age, social status or strength or weakness of each family. It is an aid, but it is a very demanding aid, which leaves no choice to adapt to austerity or margin to help the weakest. Ladies and gentlemen, that did not fit into the considerations of those who urged us to ask for it, those who were glories of the advantages of the rescue, but who did not devote one word or one to assessing their social counterparts. We did. It was our obligation. That is why we were cautious in our statements - I repeat, prudent in our statements; I repeat, prudent in our statements - and firm in our determination to avoid it. [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, the easiest thing would have been to accept the pressures, but it was the most unfair. That's why we didn't do it. We refuse to get out of the crisis at the expense of pensioners, the unemployed or the Social Security box. [[Several Members: Very well!-Protests.-Prolonged applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I just lived it. [[Protests.-Several Members: And we]] Certainly what we intended was more difficult, more arduous, more laborious, but more equitable. We could fail, but no one could say it wasn't worth trying. We therefore made a commitment to protect the welfare state in that shipwreck, maintain social benefits, and guarantee the pillars of basic services, such as health, education, pensions, unemployment benefits, and the rest of social services. [[Rumors]] To this end and to restore growth and employment the best guarantee of the welfare state - I repeat, the best guarantee of the welfare state - we have launched the economic policy that you know. [[Rumors]] At the same time, extraordinary mechanisms were created to support local and autonomous public administrations, because many of them could not meet their debt obligations, could not pay their suppliers, and could not maintain public services. I am referring to instruments such as the ICO line, the Supplier Payment Plan or the Autonomy Liquidity Fund. I would remind you that more than 70% of these funds have been earmarked for social expenditure - then I will refer to this matter in more detail -. Well, all these decisions and policies have produced the results for all known. Most importantly, we have achieved, as I committed in the investment debate, that 9,275,000 pensioners have collected and are paying their pensions on time, month by month. [[Protests.-Applause.]] It's just that you guys froze them and they had inflation above 3%. [[Applauds]] The expenditure has grown, obviously because there are more pensioners than in 2011, but also because the amount of pensions has risen. We are paying more than 19 billion a year more in pensions than those paid in 2011, and they have gained purchasing power. By the way, this comparison I make between the current situation and that of 2011 does not reflect the reality well, ladies and gentlemen, because it hides everything that we have avoided, but that very well could have happened, as, unfortunately, still happens in other nations. It could have been that the pensions were lowered, as happened in the countries under rescue, where in some cases they were forced to fall to 20%. Not here, because we don't accept the ransom. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we were also told that we could not pay unemployment benefits. Well, it wasn't like that. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Yeah, they were telling us, and it wasn't, they got paid on time, and for some reason...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u3	Mr. Such, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u4	He said that some reason was not lacking, because after increasing unemployment under his management by 3,400,000 people, it was certainly not easy to pay unemployment benefits. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish have spent much more money on unemployment than is spent on any of the ministries. It is good that this fact is known to the House. Unemployment expenditure almost came to be as much - now not because jobs are being created - as the joint expenditure of all ministries. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that almost as much money for unemployment as we jointly dedicate to all ministries. Moreover, from the very beginning, the Government committed itself to helping as much as possible those affected by long-term unemployment. One of the first measures we took was to maintain the Prepare programme until the unemployment rate fell by 20%. Now, as soon as circumstances have allowed, the Government has agreed with the Workers' Commissions, UGT and business organizations on a new aid to which 450,000 long-term unemployed will be able to access. Its aim is to facilitate integration into the labour market through intensive treatment of employment services in line with the difficulties of placement faced by many people. In other words, and as I pointed out earlier, to help the autonomous communities and local corporations comply with the social policies that fall within their competence, instruments such as the Autonomous Liquidity Fund or the Supplier Payment Fund have been articulated. Over the past three years, the State has provided the Autonomous Communities with more than €122 billion in this way. Of these, more than 71% have been earmarked for financing basic public services: health, education and social services. In this year 2015 we are putting at your disposal new financing and liquidity instruments to ensure the provision of these services for an amount of 39,869 million euros - year 2015-. For example, a social fund is set up to finance the debts of the autonomous communities with local entities arising from social spending agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go into what are the decisions of the various autonomous communities in matters which are of their own competence, primarily health and education, but I must remember that measures taken by my Government have allowed today 750,000 Spaniards with a health card who previously did not have it, that a million people in long-term unemployment no longer pay 40% of the price of medicines or that we are spending on scholarships the largest budget in Spain's history. [[Applauds]] I would not like to end this part of my speech without referring to the tax reform, which has been in force since the beginning of the year, which will put €9 billion in taxpayers' hands and make possible additional GDP growth of 0.55%. It is an ambitious reform that seeks to boost job creation, strengthen the competitiveness of our economy and reduce the excessive tax burden on payroll. The reform also provides a more equitable tax system, paying special attention to the most disadvantaged groups, middle and low incomes, large families and persons with disabilities. Twenty million taxpayers already have more disposable income each month and those with incomes below EUR 24,000 per year will benefit from a discount that almost doubles the average discount. There has been a sharp increase in personal and family minimums of up to 32 per cent and three negative taxes or family checks have been created for large families and with persons with disabilities that will benefit some 750,000 families. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to provide sustainability to a welfare state on the verge of collapse and to maintain the benefits of a public system, and this is not easy because, as I said earlier, the loss in collection was 70 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen. Sometimes we don't realize what that means. The most important thing, therefore, is not that we have already started the exit from the crisis, it is that we have done so without renouncing social cohesion. I would like to make a special mention, because it is a matter of justice, of those middle classes in our country that have borne the cost of maintaining the cohesion of our society during this very difficult crisis. I believe that it is necessary and fair to value your efforts and your solidarity. At all times - I have said this once in this House - we try to be equitable in the sharing of the costs of the crisis. Thus, those who maintained their jobs or had better incomes contributed with their efforts to help those who had lost their jobs or those who were no longer old enough to return to the labour market. We have asked the Spanish for a great deal of effort, and I know that the middle classes have borne much of that effort on their shoulders. That is why I want to use this rostrum to say that Spain owes them a lot and that now is the time to begin to alleviate their situation. In this respect, much of the proposals that I am going to put before this House today are in line. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, now that we have passed, although we still have the most difficult moments, we can start implementing more advanced social policies. But I insist on one idea: In order to move forward in social policy, we need to settle on a solid basis of economic growth. Money doesn't grow in trees. We have to produce it with our daily work. To distribute must be created, because otherwise what ends up sharing is despair and misery. Let's move on now, ladies and gentlemen, to another order of things. Nothing has provoked as much discontent among citizens - and rightly so - as corruption, which is natural. I believe that everyone's goal is to ensure that these behaviours are not repeated again in our country. For my Government, of course, it is a priority objective. We have already taken the first steps in this direction since the first general policy debate in the legislature. The first reforms were the advancement of the largest legislative package ever presented on the prevention, deterrence and punishment of corrupt practices. As you recall, the reforms affect from the funding of political parties to the model of their functioning; from the transparency of the Administration to the requirements to be fulfilled by senior public officials in the performance of their duties; from the hardening of certain crimes to the way in which the investigation of summary records can be expedited. I refer essentially, as you know, to the law regulating the high office, to the law on the financing of political parties, to the law on transparency and, of course, to the reform of the Criminal Code. With each of these measures, and with all of them as a whole, we have taken a great step towards drying out the sources of corruption, eliminating the shadows that protected it or aggravating the penalties they had allocated. Even if this fraud does not disappear - because the crime never disappears -, today it is much more difficult for corruption to occur. And if he does, it will be much more difficult for him to escape the arm of justice and, consequently, the penalties that will have to endure will be much more severe. It is still early to appreciate the fruits of these reforms, but I can assure you that at the end of the Spanish legislature you will have one of the most demanding laws to prevent and punish corruption. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me now refer to the events that have taken place in Catalonia in recent months, in particular the referendum on self-determination convened for 9 November; an illegal initiative that was finally not held and was replaced by a sort of propaganda event lacking any democratic legitimacy and political effect. Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset I said that this consultation could not be held, first of all, because it was illegal - I said so myself, but also the Constitutional Court and the majority of this House - but, moreover, because it was a pernicious initiative that broke the equality of the Spaniards and deprived millions of compatriots of their right to decide what their country wants to be. From the very beginning, my Government was involved in defending the legality and rights of all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done this with prudence and determination, with firmness and proportionality. From the very beginning we are also working to defend harmony, harmonious coexistence among citizens, the need to face together the challenges ahead and also to highlight the good that has gone together during our long common history. Of course we would have preferred that this simulation had not come to be celebrated! We would have preferred not to have wasted so much resources and energy on a project doomed to failure from the very beginning. We would have preferred for the Generalitat to devote those efforts to overcoming its financial difficulties, to finding the best way to help its entrepreneurs, to get more foreign investment or to stimulate its exporting companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I maintain my permanent readiness to seek points of understanding, both with the Generalitat de Catalunya and with any other State administration, always from the respect for the law and the rules that we have given ourselves among all. They have guaranteed us decades of peaceful coexistence, economic well-being, unparalleled decentralization in developed countries and in the history of Spain, and respect for the plurality of our country. In any case, in order to make my position clear, I would like to reiterate once again that I will never accept that the unity of Spain, national sovereignty, equality of Spaniards and their fundamental rights be called into question. [[Applauds]] Nor will I allow anyone to seek to violate what our Constitution says or to amend it by procedures other than those laid down therein. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is a democratic and legal state, in which everyone, including this Parliament and of course the Government and its President, is subject to the law, all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot appear in this House to talk about the state of the nation without talking about Europe, because for us European policy is part of domestic policy. Our relations with the European Union are a fundamental part of national policy, and we have been able to see it directly and clearly during these difficult years of fighting the crisis. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that Europe has also changed a lot and for good in these three years. I am referring, for example, to the banking union, with its single supervisory system and the resolution mechanism, to which the Spanish banks have been incorporated after the magnificent results they obtained in the stress tests carried out and which demonstrate the success of the restructuring process that has been carried out in our financial system. From the very beginning of the legislature, my Government fought the battle in Europe to move from austerity to growth policies, from conformism to momentum in integration. From that point of view, I have always maintained that the successes of our policy in this area lie in our ability to turn strictly Spanish interests into priorities on the European agenda, therefore, into common interests of all Europeans. I therefore believe that we should welcome the package of measures to promote investment in Europe, the so-called Juncker Plan, which was approved by the European Council at its meeting last December, and which links with what is today the Union's priority, economic growth and job creation. As you know, the objective of this initiative is to mobilise up to €315 billion between 2015 and 2017. Some of these resources will be used to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as medium-sized companies. It is not necessary to stress the importance of this point. I simply remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this type of business represents the main part of our business fabric and is the largest creator of employment. The other component of the Juncker Plan is European infrastructure projects in areas such as digital networks or energy, but also in transport, education, research and development, energy efficiency or renewable energy. Spain has already identified a number of projects that would fit these guidelines. We continue to work on that process that is alive and dynamic. In addition to this investment plan, the December European Council entrusted the Commission with a proposal of extraordinary importance to our country and which is also eligible for funding under the Juncker Plan. The aim is to make progress in the common energy market by developing energy infrastructures and, in particular, interconnections. This issue is essential to ensure that the Iberian peninsula ceases to be an energy island and to balance our prices with those of our neighbours. The interest of Spain and Portugal, so often postponed, now coincides with a strategic interest of the whole of Europe that would be able to diversify its energy sources and avoid situations of dependence that could operate against the interests of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, last week I was pleased to inaugurate a new high-voltage interconnection between Spain and France with the French Prime Minister, Mr Valls. This is a vital infrastructure that brings us closer to the goal of achieving an interconnection capacity between the two countries of 10% of the installed capacity, an objective that, by the way, is long overdue. The great progress made in this area is that the European Council has assumed that this historic claim by Spain and Portugal to increase energy connections with Europe will become one of the Union's overall priorities for action. To this end, my Government is organizing a summit in Madrid on 4 March, to be attended by French President François Hollande, Portuguese Prime Minister Passos Coelho, President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Investment Bank Werner Hoyer, with the aim of giving a decisive impetus to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the difficulties, Europe is taking steps in the right direction and, by the way, the recent agreement with Greece is good proof of this. My Government warmly welcomes the agreement reached by the Eurogroup last Friday. It shows the Greek Government's willingness to continue to comply with the rules and agreements of the eurozone; to maintain the current institutional framework for the development of the programme under the supervision of the International Monetary Fund, the ECB and the European Commission, i.e. the institutions; and to successfully complete the current programme. It has not been easy to reach such an agreement. On the one hand, there are the rules and commitments of the euro area in terms of financial assistance - only with Greece the Spanish State has committed more than EUR 26 billion - and, on the other hand, there was the intention of the new Greek Government to redefine its debt and its economic policy, despite the commitments made in the current programme. Well, ladies and gentlemen, after three meetings of the Eurogroup and one of the European Council, the conclusion of these negotiations has been framed in the best European spirit that defines all the Member States; that is what happened. The commitments will be met, flexibility will be applied wherever it was planned and as planned, and the guarantees obtained by creditor countries when we made the solidarity effort with Greece remain intact. It really couldn't be any other way, and it's good for the citizens to know. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is because the euro is one of the most important components of the European integration project, because all the states that we are part of the eurozone have to assume rights but also obligations, particularly those that guarantee the sustainability of the common currency. The European Union is a community of law where the rules must be observed by all parties that subscribe to it. This is not an à la carte club and there is no room for either impositions or unilateral measures. Ladies and gentlemen, it's good that we know. The principles governing the eurozone are those of responsibility and solidarity, fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, and both are the same coin. The European Union has acted with great solidarity towards Greece, with enormous solidarity, and here we have unanimously approved that solidarity, ladies and gentlemen. But, of course, such solidarity also requires the same responsibility on the part of the Greek governments. That is why I welcome this agreement, mainly because it is very good for Europe and for the future of Europe. I would not like to finish this part of my speech without referring to two other important issues which have taken up a long time at the last European Councils and which we are particularly concerned about as Europeans and as Spaniards. I mean, first of all - I will do so shortly; perhaps in the afternoon I can extend myself but I think it is important that I make a reference to this matter - to the crisis in Ukraine. The Heads of State and Government support the agreement reached in Minsk by the Presidents of Russia, Ukraine, the President of the French Republic and the German Chancellor, which provides a new opportunity for a solution to this crisis. For us it is very important that the European Union maintain a united position on the situation in Ukraine. I believe that any solution must be political and negotiated, and guarantee Ukraine's independence and territorial integrity. The European Union will continue to lend its political and financial support to Ukraine, as demonstrated by a new tranche of macro-financial assistance amounting to EUR 1.8 billion, in addition to the previous commitment of EUR 11.1 billion. The solution to the crisis must necessarily include Russia, which is a major partner and neighbour of the European Union and which must ensure compliance with the Minsk agreements. This is the position we are defending and in which we agree with our European partners. Secondly, I would like to draw your honourable Members' attention to another matter that everyone here knows to be very important, the Declaration adopted at the February European Council on the fight against jihadist terrorism, which has received Spanish contributions and whose final wording has our full support. By the way, I take this opportunity to congratulate the State Security Forces and Corps on the brilliant operation they have carried out today against jihadist terrorism, which is the continuation of many of the last days. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of President Tusk, I intervened in the debate to transfer Spain's experience in combating this scourge. This experience has taught us - and I have explained it to my colleagues in the European Council - that the rule of law can defeat terrorism on the basis of three conditions: political and social commitment, determined and constant police and judicial action, and international cooperation. I referred to the recent state pact with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party signed on 2 February, stressing that it is a fundamental part of the political and social consensus and essential to successfully confront this serious threat. A priority element is the strengthening of control at the external borders of the European Union, safeguarding all the progress we have made in the Schengen acquis. This will allow us to increase security, preserving the free movement of people. It is also necessary to promote international cooperation with third States. I am particularly pleased that, at the initiative of Spain, the declaration includes recognition of the role of victims and the maintenance of their memory. No one like them can faithfully convey the testimony of the terrorist unrighteousness and moral superiority of democrats over those who violate the freedom and rights of all. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is less than a year left for the end of this parliamentary term; a term in which we have laid the foundations for sustained growth and sustainable well-being, and in which we are already beginning to see the results of the reforms, to reap the fruits of so many efforts. Today we are the fastest growing and most employment-creating country in all the major economies of the euro area. Ladies and gentlemen, the one who grows the most and the one who creates the most jobs. No one expected it three years ago but no one doubts today that Spain will continue to lead economic growth and job creation this year. We have regained confidence because we have demonstrated our determination to take action and prudence in assessing its effects. We therefore expect an additional improvement in growth forecasts for this year. I announce that the government can now anticipate that in 2015 the growth of the Spanish economy will reach 2.4%, 4 tenths more than expected so far. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a prediction of voluntarism, but quite the contrary, because there are many analysts who say that we will probably exceed this figure. Of course, the Government will work to do so, as we have done so far. The background shows that, with everyone's work, reality can exceed official expectations, as it happened here in 2013 and 2014. The bases to get that are there, they're already built. Our economy is no longer based on indebtedness, it is based on trust and competitiveness. That is why we expect consumption to continue to grow by around 3%, consistent with what it did in 2014. Investment in equipment will grow by more than 7% and, as a novelty, after seven consecutive years of falling, it will also do so in construction, residential and non-residential. We are also anticipating better external performance, the current account balance of payments will be surplus and the Spanish economy's financing capacity to the rest of the world will exceed 1% of GDP. On the other hand, price behaviour will continue to be particularly favourable for the Spanish economy. With these forecasts we will be clearly in a position to create more than 500,000 jobs in this year 2015, that is, we will reach the end of the legislature with a million jobs created during 2014 and 2015. [[Rumors]] That is why, because this Government meets its objectives and exceeds its expectations, we will continue to work. Some might think it's only left to wait for the harvest. That is not the case with this government. The legislature is not exhausted and our reform agenda is therefore not exhausted either. Our task in this last year of the legislature is to make the most of growth, consolidate recovery and extend its effects to all levels. For this it is not necessary to change policy, but to continue to make policies for change: first, to promote job creation and its quality; secondly, and consequently, to improve social welfare; thirdly, and necessarily, the strength of growth and competitiveness; and fourthly, the institutional stability necessary to achieve these tasks successfully. This will be our agenda by the end of the legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, I have started with employment because it remains our greatest concern and our main priority. We will continue to work to promote the creation of stable and quality jobs and the integration of the most difficult groups into employment. Therefore, once the flat rate for contracting ends, we will put in place a new reduced rate for the new indefinite contracts. The first 500 euros of the salary will be exempt from social security contributions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, taxes can be lowered, so we have made a tax reform. In this case, social contributions can and must also be lowered, especially because - as we have designed - it will encourage the inclusion of the most vulnerable workers, those where unemployment and temporaryity are more concentrated because they lack experience or training or because they have time in unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, over the course of this parliamentary term we have been concerned to promote the integration of groups with the greatest difficulty in accessing employment. This is demonstrated by the agreement with the social partners which introduces the extraordinary activation programme to which I have already referred this morning. But, beyond the extraordinary measures, we are going to push for new structural changes in this area. The Government is talking to the social partners with a view to undertaking the reform of the vocational training system for employment. We want to enhance the employability of workers, especially the most vulnerable, and promote the productivity and competitiveness of businesses. This is a new model of training based on transparency - ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary - in quality and efficiency when it comes to ensuring the integration and the progression of work. Ladies and gentlemen, the second priority of my Government for what remains of the legislature is the improvement of social welfare. Therefore, in addition to continuing to work to create jobs, this Friday we have forwarded to the Courts the draft laws on child protection and in the coming weeks we will send the draft laws of the third sector of social action and volunteering. We will also approve the comprehensive family support plan and the framework for action for older persons. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, one of the main social measures of this government has been the tax reform that has begun to enter into force this year. In this reform we incorporate several family checks: aid for large families, aid for persons with disabilities or aid for persons with disabilities. These cheques represent 1,200 euros per year for each case, are cumulative among themselves and are added to the aid of 100 euros per month for working mothers with children under three years of age, which is in force as they know since 2002. [[Applauds]] Well, I want to extend these family checks to single-parent families made up of one parent and two children. With this extension, among others, all beneficiaries of these family cheques of tax reform will be able to exceed one million people. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is fair to recognize the role of families and the dedication of parents, because they are building a country and guaranteeing our future. I would also like to remind you that we will continue to work for full equality of opportunity with measures such as the special plan for equality between men and women in the fields of work and wages or the plan for the promotion of women in rural areas. We will continue to implement concrete measures. In the context of the reform of the Statute for Self-Employment, which we intend to bring to the Council of Ministers in a short time, we will establish a special bonus for conciliation for self-employed workers. The aim is to enable them to hire a worker if they have to take care of their children under the age of seven or dependent family members. In short, they have the same facilities as a worker on behalf of others today. [[Applauds]] At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I want to deal with a matter. Spanish families, such as the self-employed and entrepreneurs, have suffered especially from the crisis and drag their effects, especially when accompanied by many debts, and what this government is going to do is to promote reforms to facilitate the second chance for all citizens. We will immediately adopt a royal decree-law that will give you greater facilities to deal with the difficulty. Families will now be able to restructure their debts through an out-of-court settlement of payments, a coordinated, transparent and regulated procedure that will allow them to negotiate in a unified and supervised manner with their creditors. This procedure will be particularly simple for individuals, so that within very short periods and with the lowest administrative costs they can agree to write off, deferments and other forms of debt reduction. Where such agreements are not possible, the competition law empowers natural persons to release outstanding debts after the execution of the guarantees and their assets. Ladies and gentlemen, even those who were forced to sell their goods to pay their debts were still responsible for paying the remaining part. This condemned households and entrepreneurs to live with the slab of past debt even having renounced their assets. With this reform, within the framework of a judicially controlled procedure and with all guarantees, it will be possible to get rid of this scourge. It's a very important reform. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this has already been done in other European countries, and also, as in other European countries, we will be undertaking a complete review of the limitation periods for debt claims, which will generally be set at five years, instead of the fifteen currently in force. It makes no sense for a family or a professional to live by thinking of a debt that has not been claimed in fifteen years, or that this period has not changed since the Civil Code of 1889, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will strengthen the code of good banking practice so that more families can benefit from its measures. This code has so far allowed around 12,000 viable debt restructurings and 3,500 payments. From now on it will include a clause so that the persons who receive it can also benefit from a definitive non-application of the ground clauses. This will enable them to continue to face up to the payment of their mortgage. Ladies and gentlemen, this new regulation of the second opportunity will complement other measures to support the financing and liquidity of the entrepreneurial and business initiative, because in April Parliament will finally adopt the new competition law, which directly engages in this spirit to expand the possibilities for companies to meet their debts, or the new law to promote business finance to facilitate access to credit and other financial mechanisms for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to emphasize that the Government will continue to promote measures to facilitate economic activity, to adapt the legal framework to the potential of recovery and to improve the capacity to grow, compete and create jobs, that is, we will continue to undertake structural reforms and consolidate those that are already under way; reforms that represent a profound change in the façade of our country, our economy and our public sector. I am referring to issues such as the adoption of the desindexation law, which will allow for greater control over prices and the maintenance of competitiveness, or the full operation of the market unit by accelerating the regulatory adaptation necessary to ensure its full effect, addressing the reform of 35 priority State rules covering measures of flexibility and rationalization in sectors as diverse as labour integration, transport, vehicle technical inspections or telecommunications. This complete reform is directly linked to the objective of the reform of public administrations, a reform in which we continue to work and which we want to consolidate with a vocation of permanence so that rationality, efficiency and transparency are irrevocable principles of the public sector. To this end, we will refer to the Courts a new legal framework for the public sector which distinguishes between its legal regime and the administrative procedure and which incorporates decisive measures, such as the strict regulation of the institutional administration, to avoid the inflation of ancillary entities which the Government has had to tackle with the liquidation, ladies and gentlemen, of more than 2,000 entities, or the final incorporation of the electronic administration, not as a philosophy of the future, but as the usual mode of public service in the present. Along with the reform of public administrations, there will be progress in speeding up justice with the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act and the revision of the fee system. Ladies and gentlemen, in another matter, as I pointed out earlier, one of the main objectives of this legislature has been democratic regeneration. That is why, as I said, this Government has worked from the outset by making available to those who pursue fraud and corruption and by taking measures to prevent it from all points of view. Continuing this task, in the coming weeks we will refer to Parliament the draft Criminal Prosecution Act, which I myself anticipated from this rostrum. For this reason, the law sets out fundamental measures to facilitate procedural agility by setting a maximum time limit for the investigation of criminal proceedings and by better regulating the connection of cases to prevent large trials, macro-processes, from delaying the determination of true responsibilities, to judge more quickly, to punish more effectively and also to recover with greater agility the stolen. Therefore, the law will also include effective measures for the confiscation of property derived from the crime and will be created, following the French model, the office for the management and recovery of assets derived from the crime, which will be launched before the end of 2015, in order to recover such property as effectively as necessary and to obtain the maximum possible return from it, so that it will revert to the benefit of society and to compensation for the damage suffered. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that we also aim to continue to make progress towards the control of fraud, whether tax or tax, or against the public finances or social security. We will present a law reforming the General Tax Law to prevent fraud by, among other measures, advertising of those who are of the highest value and those who have received criminal charges. We will also reform the Computer Law of the Labour Inspection and Social Security and Occupational Safety and Health System, which will intensify coordination in the fight against fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now entering the last part of my speech. By summarizing everything, without going into evaluations, I will say that we have reversed the situation, which is what we were entrusted with three years ago. We were sinking and now we are growing and we will continue to do so. It's taken us two years to regain strength. Already in the third, the first fruits have appeared in the form of growth and, above all, in the form of employment. These objective data are combined with other more difficult to weigh, but undeniable, such as the growing confidence of investors, entrepreneurs and consumers. Secondly, Spain has shown that the worst known crisis can be overcome, without tearing apart the structure of society, without deepening inequalities and without endangering the welfare state. I'm missing a very important piece of information. We cannot forget that nothing we have achieved, nothing, is irreversible. Everything is newly built and can be undone as a sugar in the water, which, as I said before, depends only on ourselves. That's what I want to talk to you about next. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have achieved is very important, it has cost a lot of work and we should take it very seriously, because we have done nothing but start. We're taking the first steps. That is why it is very important to maintain the same path with perseverance. Otherwise, everything we've earned in three years can be lost in a few months. We are opening an expansive phase of our economy full of opportunities to consolidate the recovery of growth and employment, but which is still fragile and exposed to changes in the international situation, to short-term difficulties and also to ideological - or simply fan - fans, of which we have known some examples. We have not come this far by chance, as some people think, nor is improvement the result of a change in economic climate, as those who no longer dare to deny it say. The climate has been the same for all, but Spain is the country that grows the most in Europe and creates the most jobs. Before, with the same climate as all the others, Spain was the most backward and the most unemployed created in Europe. It is not the climate, ladies and gentlemen, but the well-oriented effort that marks the differences, the good policies. [[Applauds]] It is true that today's circumstances - the fall in the price of oil, the fall in the euro, the purchase of debt by the ECB - favor us, but they do so because we had already placed ourselves in a position to take advantage of them better than others. It is not good to sow that idea that we go ahead, ladies and gentlemen, dragged by circumstances, despite ourselves and despite the Government, it is not good. [[Rumors]] One thing is to refuse to recognize the merits of the Government - which are in its right - and another is to deny it to the Spanish. It is appropriate not to mix the two things. [[Applauds]] To say that the current improvement has come alone, that the efforts of the citizens have not been worth it, that could have been avoided, besides being false, besides that, is the best way to prepare the land for the successful sowing of demagogues, the best way. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is very different. In Spain we are emerging from the worst known crisis because we have implemented a policy that has made it possible and that was different from the previous - nothing happens, it has simply made it possible - and because the Spaniards have accepted sacrifices that were inevitable, and neither the efforts have been useless, nor the results could have been obtained by another way. You've done what you should do, that's the truth. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the good results support the good procedures, in the same way that the bad results account for the quality of the procedures that have sunk us and that can bring us back into unemployment and ruin. It's a book. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I could also say to the Spaniards, as others do - I could say - that the minimum wage is doubling this afternoon, that pensions will increase by 10% tomorrow morning, that everyone will have subsidized housing last morning, that every newborn will receive 1,000 euros, and so on until I get tired. They say, rightly, that speaking is free, but, of course, if, in addition to promising, I intend to keep my word, it would take us six months, perhaps less, to return to the most egregious ruin. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that if I did, it would be a gesture of reckless unconsciousness. And if others do, what is it? [[Laughter and applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish must be told the truth that their well-being, their welfare state, their social security, their pensions, their health and their education are not given to anyone and that they are inseparable from our economic capacity. That is why sensible and reasonable economic policies must be pursued, not demagogic. With demagogy the welfare state is not maintained; in other words, it is destroyed. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are recovering - for the moment, just recovering - well-being because we have implemented an economic policy that has been able to create the conditions for us to enjoy a huge relief in the payment of debt interest and thus meet social expenses. It is good that this is known so that magic remedies are not sought and that attention is not paid to those who want to sell those magic remedies. Ladies and gentlemen, if we had not managed to halve debt interests, we would have had to halve some social benefits, that is so. Instead of devoting 30 billion to unemployment - with which many Spaniards could be cared for - we could not have risen from 15,000, that is the truth, because that is what we saved ourselves in debt interests. It is very dangerous to think - and I think it is good to say this in a debate of these characteristics - that there is a social policy which is not covered by a sound economic policy and it is very dangerous to think, ladies and gentlemen, that the welfare state can be lifted up on mortgages or, worse still, that it can go ahead with other people's money, because that has never been possible in history, nor will we change centuries and centuries of history now. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, when everyone's well-being is at stake, it is appropriate to be careful with what is said. Those who do not create employment do not guarantee the welfare state and those who destroy with their employment policies are calling into question the welfare state, because, where the welfare state exists, employment supports and supports it. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] It is the benefit generated by those who are working that sustains the welfare state. Therefore, in the investiture speech, I said: "Employment"... is the cornerstone that can sustain the task of our recovery. That jobs arise means that economic activity increases, that the State recovers revenue, that Social Security expands its base and its contributions, that pensioners breathe calmly, that we can improve education, finance health, etc. There is no possibility of straightening the march of the nation that does not begin by creating the conditions that allow Spaniards who have no job to get to work". That's what I said in the investiture debate. I reaffirm that, and I think it is very positive that today the House will be able to welcome the fact that more than 400,000 jobs have already been created last year and that more than 500,000 jobs will be created this year. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain does not need magical voluntarisms. He needs jobs. The question is, how many? Don't tell me everyone because that's the obvious. What I'm wondering is how many jobs Spain needs for its growth to be consolidated, to stop taking risks, to be able to feel safe in the face of eventualities or changes in circumstances. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.- Rumours]] The answer is... Of course we need all the ones you destroyed and some more. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause.- Rumours]] We need those. I had it pointed out here: the answer is very simple, and it is true. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs to achieve a figure similar to that which we had before the crisis, that is to say, about 20 million jobs. That is the least we should pursue from now on without rest. Is it the end of the play? No, no, It's the end of another act. It is the stability, the relief, the feeling calm, without shocks, without fear of waves or setbacks, because with that number of people working we are very capable of releasing Social Security, ensuring sufficient income to care for the welfare state without distress and enjoying an external image as solid and as reliable as the one that more. How much longer do we, ladies and gentlemen, need to reach that stability step? We lack 3 million net jobs. This, I insist, must be our next goal, because it is achievable, naturally if we do not commit clumsiness. Today that we already know the results of the year 2014 and that we perceive the prospects of 2015, we can pose ourselves challenges that a year ago - a year - would have seemed illusory to us. If we are able, ladies and gentlemen, to keep up the pace of growth and the expectations are being fulfilled that we can do it above 2% per year, we can say that we have a million net jobs at hand between last year and this, and today we know that if we do not let things go wrong, we can aspire to create more than half a million net jobs each year. I repeat, that must be the next goal of the Spaniards, not to allow the dismantling of what we have built, but to complete the task and consolidate the exit from the crisis: 3 million jobs to be protected from eventualities and continue to grow in well-being and security. And you can, ladies and gentlemen, of course I think you can. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my main purpose in this exhausted legislature is to strengthen the conditions that will enable us to take this next step successfully, because, when this legislature is concluded, that goal will not be utopian, it will not be a dream, it will be an economic, political and social goal within the reach of the Spanish, and that is almost as much as it is to say that we are obliged to pursue it. We said two years ago, by successfully taking the first steps to get out of the jam, that Spain had regained its right to have a future, because it had lost it. Now that Spain is already in progress and has reaped the first fruits of its efforts, it has the right to have this future of growth and employment built on solid foundations; it has the right to protect its well-being and the duty to do so. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen, I regard Spain as a country that three years ago - which is said to be soon - occupied in Europe the corner that corresponds to the problems, the concerns and the discomforts; a country that has managed to move forward by its own means in a way that some consider exemplary, and that has been able to become a reliable nation that is beginning to take on speed, and that if it perseveres in its purposes it has the clear future. It is worthy of note that our nation has managed to regain its vigor without social or territorial ruptures, that it is able to cover its own welfare state - which we are capable of - and that it is able to protect the union and equality of all Spaniards. We are also, in the negative, a country that carries the figure of a million-dollar debt and an unacceptable unemployment rate, without forgetting that a large part of the population still does not have the benefit of economic recovery. And to this is added the true and serious risk that, either by changes in the international situation, or because the Spaniards consent to it, there is a setback that makes us lose everything we have achieved, and re-place ourselves at the point where we were at the beginning of the legislature, or worse. There are many things, ladies and gentlemen, which still need to be improved in Spain, and at the same time we need to be able to consolidate what has already been achieved. There are reasons for not interrupting the effort and avoiding the risks, so that the task continues in the right direction, until economic recovery reaches all families, the work of those who demand it, and the economic situation consolidates its strength. Three years ago I talked about getting the job back, because that meant reversing the situation we were suffering. Today, achieved that, we can well put figures to our purpose. I have proposed a new frontier for the aspirations of our nation, a new target of 3,000,000 net jobs, perfectly achievable in the coming years, and that unlike the previous one does not demand sacrifices or tightness, but will and perseverance. I must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that during this triennium the Spaniards, with the conviction that we were on the only path that allowed us the circumstances, have made a commendable effort, because it has been. It has not been necessary to explain to them that one cannot live on what one does not have, and that, as ungrateful as it may seem, it was necessary to reduce all expenses temporarily, except those essential. It has not been necessary, because it is the same thing that every Spanish family does every time they need to adjust their economy. I must admit that without that sense of reality that the majority of Spaniards have shown the task of the Government would have been much more complicated, because at no time have there been any lack of voices that would advise the citizens to reject the effort, condemn the prudence in spending, and sow the kind that, it is not known how, things could go better in the opposite direction. There's no shortage of voices. They're not missing now either. They have not been listened to before, and I am sure they will not be listened to now either, because if it had been reckless to do so when we started the march, much more so now that we have already gone through the roughest part of the road, we have the first fruits in our hands, and our horizon clears. This is, in short, the state of the nation that we are debating today. If three years ago we were forced to dream of a future that did not exist, today we can well say that that future has arrived and we are leaving it behind. The time has come to accelerate the march, complete the recovery, extend it to all Spanish households, and build the new opportunities that our young people need. Ladies and gentlemen, this is within our capacity, and it is up to us alone. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is adjourned. It was one and forty minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u6	The meeting was resumed. On behalf of the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last debate in the legislature and at this point, Mr Rajoy, you are an heir to yourself. I'll tell you what the balance of your management is. Firstly, their job reform has been to destroy employment and to curtail workers' labour rights. [[Applauds]] Today there are 584,000 fewer jobs and you have introduced the single part-time and temporary contract. Never as today, Mr Rajoy, has there been so much precarious work in our country. Secondly, the Spaniards today, after three and a half years of government of the People's Party, pay 23 billion euros more in taxes; and thirdly, Mr Rajoy, you are a president who communicated with the Spaniards through a plasma and with a criminal through an SMS. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Yes, Mr. Rajoy, yes. [[Applauds]] Those are your achievements, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u8	I'm asking for silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u9	Your achievements and how you will pass on to the history of Spain will be by three concepts: first, precariousness; second, taxes and, third, Bárcenes, Mr Rajoy, Bárcenes. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, you have come to this House in an attack of false modesty to say - with your small mouth - no, ladies and gentlemen, the merit is not mine, it is of the Spanish... And I say to you, Mr. Rajoy, what do you know about the Spaniards? [[Rumors and protests.-A Member of Parliament: More than you]] Or rather, when you speak of the Spaniards, what Spaniards do you mean? You have proclaimed that in the cafés of Spain the end of the crisis is already mentioned; your ministers speak of the joy of the workers; even your vice president is allowed the luxury of saying that on the streets of Spain you breathe happiness. And I wonder, Mr. Rajoy, how do most Spaniards ask themselves: But what cafes do you frequent, Mr. Rajoy? Why do you walk in the streets? What people are you talking to, Mr. Rajoy? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I don't know who you're talking to. What I am quite clear is that you do not talk to the more than 3 million long-term unemployed in our country. You do not talk to the 400,000 young people who have emigrated because of the lack of opportunities within our country, with the 7,000 young scientists who have had to emigrate as a result of their cuts in scientific policies. Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are not talking to women who are currently paying 24% less than their male counterparts. [[Applauds]] Not to mention, Mr Rajoy, you don't even talk to the 32,000 families who were evicted last year while the state, by a political decision of its government, does what it does is to buy with the taxes of the Spanish, even of the evicted families, empty housing to the financial sector. [[Rumors]] Your self-congratulation, Mr. Rajoy, is unwarranted. Moreover, I dare say that you do not believe it either, that it is an electoral pose. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that in the absence of its own merits the Government has taken advantage of the merits of others, and we are, of course, happy with the good macroeconomic data of our economy, because we are not like you; we are not like you, Mr Montoro. [[Rumors]] The improvement is, without a doubt, as the President of the Government has rightly said, thanks to the Spanish people, for their sacrifice; but it is also thanks to the fall in the price of oil, and I am sorry, Mr Rajoy, that you have nothing to do with it. [[Rumors]] It also has to do with the depreciation of the euro and it has to do with finally having a European Central Bank committed to growth policies. And also, as you said in your speech, for the aggregate demand policies promoted by the European institutions. Policies, by the way, which have nothing to do with your government, which is absolutely irrelevant in the European Union, and which have to do - yes - with the policies promoted by the Social Democratic governments. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Mr Rajoy, ladies and gentlemen, the cotton test I am saying is the evolution of the risk premium in our country over the last three and a half years. It has improved the least in the past three and a half years in the peripheral economies of the European Union, Greece, Portugal and Ireland. And, yes, we do have positive economic growth forecasts, and we are happy about that, but you also have to say, Mr Rajoy, that they are equal or inferior to those that are currently being recorded in economies such as Sweden, the United Kingdom, Portugal or Ireland. You, Mr Rajoy, in your initial speech have assumed the evolution of prices, but you do not tell the whole truth. The prices that depend on you have only risen during your years of government, and I will give you several examples: the first, it has increased by 52% the price of medicines, it has increased by 10% the gas bill, it has increased by 16% the water bill and it has increased by 13% the electricity bill. Mr Rajoy, you are very dear to the Spaniards. It's very expensive for you, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] The recovery must be fair or it will not be, and in order for the recovery to be fair it must benefit 90% of the Spaniards, who are always the ones you marginalise with your policies and your decisions. For recovery to be fair, do you know what has to happen, Mr. Rajoy? You must regain the rights and freedoms that you have dismantled from the government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards demand - and quite rightly so - a decent policy, a clean policy, a change of policy, where more is done than is said, rather than being replaced by saying. What was the Government's promise to create 3.5 million jobs - ladies and gentlemen will remember - and one million businesses throughout this legislature? What was that promise, Mr. Rajoy? [[Rumors]] The reality is that there are 584,000 fewer jobs and 100,000 fewer companies in our country, and today you have the defachability to come here to promise another 3 million jobs? A little more prudence in your statements, Mr. Rajoy! What was your promise that saving banks in our country wouldn't cost a cent of euro? Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen? The reality, ladies and gentlemen, as much as you try to cover it up, Mr Rajoy, is that Spain was rescued as a result of your poor management of Bankia; it was rescued. [[Applauds]] Look at me, Mr. Rajoy, that I will remind you : Home of the newspaper El País: Rescue Spain. [[Protests.-Shows covers of various newspapers]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u10	I pray silently for the speaker to be heard.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u11	Mr. Rajoy, look at me for a second, although you already know them: Diario El Mundo: Rescue without humiliation. [[Rumors.-Mr. Ayala Sánchez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u12	I beg your silence, Mr. Ayala. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u13	La Vanguardia: Rescue the bank. [[Rumors]] Calm down, ladies and gentlemen, for a second. [[Rumors]] Front page of the Financial Times: Rajoy presumes the ransom as if it were a victory. In English rescue is rescue, Mr. Rajoy. [[Laughter and applause]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is who lies; do you lie The World, The Country, The Vanguard, The Financial Times or do you lie? You lie, Mr. Rajoy, you lie. [[Applauds.-Protests]] The socialist government avoided the rescue and you provoked it. Yes, Mr. Rajoy, there was rescue with all the rescue version: men of black, troika and memorandum, and you know for what?, all to save Private Mouse. That was the problem, Mr. Rajoy. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Yeah, yeah. I have a few words from Mr Rajoy in the investiture debate. Do you know which ones they were?: You have to tell the truth even if it hurts. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I tell the truth even if it hurts. [[Protests.-Applause.]] They have already been paid for all taxpayers €70 billion when Mr De Guindos - who is not here - said that it would not cost a cent of euro to save the banks. [[Rumors]] And what, ladies and gentlemen, was that promise from the President of the Government that he would not reduce the unemployment benefit? Do you remember? The reality is that they have cut it by 12 points and that has been their most cruel political decision because the people who are really affected are the most helpless people in our country, especially those over 50 who are unemployed. So, what a big fraud, Mr Rajoy, your management at the head of the government. And today you come here after three years of an unusual wreckage to announce some measures, some of which announce the government and the president for the seventh time in this House, and others of course what you are not going to do is to alleviate the damage you have done with your management at the head of the government. Mr. Rajoy's comprehensive family support plan, the one he announced here today... [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.- Rumours]] No, if the problem is they don't start it. That plan was announced in this House on February 1, 2012, in February 2013, in May 2013, in June 2014 and in January 2015. [[Rumors]] And you come now to say that you are going to do it at the end of the legislature? With regard to court fees, Mr Rajoy, I do not quite understand what you have said to the House and the document you have distributed to the press. Let's see, do you review or delete court fees? I tell you it doesn't matter, because my proposal - I hope you do - is to repeal the Judicial Fees Act in our country. [[Applauds]] And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, three years after having sold mortgages and social housing to vulture funds, Mr Rajoy arrives and tells us that he is going to pass a second chance law, and I say welcome it, welcome to the social drama of evictions in our country. [[Rumors]] We have asked for it for three and a half years, Mr Rajoy, and we hope that they will not impose requirements that make it unserviceable or limit the maximum number of potential beneficiaries of that second chance law. You're talking about the self-employed. The main problem of self-employed people in our country believe me if I tell you that is access to credit. By the way, Mr. Rajoy, what was your promise that the self-employed would not pay VAT until they charged? [[Rumors]] In this quote from your first speech there could not be a lack of a classic, ladies and gentlemen, and it is - you have guessed well - the Equal Opportunities Plan. They announced it on February 9, 2012, in December 2012, in February 2013, in May 2013, in November 2014; but, Mr. Rajoy, if you even announced it in your investiture debate, and we announce it again three years later this morning! But how uphill you are being made to adopt policies of equality between men and women, Mr Rajoy! [[Applauds]] All right, you no longer deceive anyone, Mr Rajoy, because almost everything you have announced here today are either breaches or corrections to your own policies, and none of them, I can assure you, will alleviate the damage your policies have caused to the Spanish population. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, when you do, more than do, you undo. They dismantle equality policies; block the development of the Law on Combating Gender Violence; cut its budget; forget the Law on Equality between Men and Women. They undo the cultural industry - to which you did not refer in your speech, Mr Rajoy - with a rise of 21% in cultural VAT and a law on intellectual property that precisely discourages cultural creation. They undo the policies of agriculture, rural development and fisheries, of which you have not mentioned a single word in your speech. They undo - you have not said anything in your first intervention - all the policies of environmental protection, with your Coast Law, with your Environmental Assessment Law, with your Mount Law, with your pursuit of clean energies while increasing the bill of light. Ignore, Mr Rajoy, the energy poverty, which you did not mention in your speech either. They charge, by the way, to the users' gas bill for the next twenty years, ladies and gentlemen - for the next twenty years - their multimillionaire gift to the Beaver's own company. [[Rumors]] And what you do too is ignore and despise the fight against climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, by undoing, they are destroying even the equal opportunities of our educational system. Mr. Wert, there are 18,000 less teachers in our education system. With its law, with the Lomce, which is rejected by the majority of parliamentary groups present in this House except its own and rejected by the whole educational community, what they have done has been to cut and discredit public education in our country. But I tell you one thing, and I take it in this House, Mr Rajoy, as soon as we get to the government we'll repeal the Lomce, we'll repeal it. [[Applauds]] Too bad you didn't talk about university fees and scholarship cuts. His latest assault, that famous 3+2 university, which is basically nothing more than a new attempt to turn students into first division and second division according to the parents' current account. And what they do is close the door to secular education in our country. You also undo our National Unit System, to which you have not devoted a minute of your intervention, Mr Rajoy. There are 177,000 persons who have recognized the right to such care and are not cared for as a result of their social insensitivity. They have abandoned the universality of the health system and I would like the House to listen to me carefully on this point. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, including you, gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, including you. Until 2012, Spanish and foreign residents in Spain held the right to health care and are no longer. You expelled 900,000 people from the National Health System by breaking the universality of the public health system in our country; that's the reality, Mr Rajoy, that's the reality. [[Applauds]] You have cut by 30,000 the professionals associated with our country's health system, you have cut 40 billion euros in our health system, you have dismantled reference centers to fight for example against the Ebola virus, and the pensioners in our country today, as a result of a political decision by your government, Mr Rajoy, pay more than 700 million euros in health co-payments. So they don't, they undo. The consequence of their policies is, at best, inequality and, at worst, poverty. 25% of Spaniards suffer or are at risk of poverty, 14 million Spaniards, more than 2 million are children. You too do what you do is to undo social trust with your cuts in freedoms. Mr Rajoy, in the case of abortion, women have faced the greatest aggression that is reminiscent of their own freedom in democracy. They have won that battle against the Government and will continue to do so before their recourse in the Constitutional of the Law on Voluntary Discontinuation of Pregnancy adopted by a socialist Government. [[Rumors]] I tell you, Mr Rajoy, to withdraw that resource, to know how to lose and that women have won you and with them we have won all the Democrats, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] That's what happened. And if you try, Mr. Rajoy, to continue attacking women's freedom, I warn you that we will strive to continue to defend them and win them again. Do you know why, Mr. Rajoy? Because time is on our side, simply and simply for that. Ladies and gentlemen, do more than say, even if you try to silence the tides of the citizens with your law, with the criminal criminalization of strikes, with your manipulation of the public media, with your attempt to silence a judiciary that is opposed to its anti-social laws and with its cuts in universal justice that have allowed, ladies and gentlemen, 43 drug traffickers to go out of prison as a result of their cut in universal justice. You have privatized the Civil Registry and make it difficult for citizens to have access to justice with your Tax Act, which, I would like to reiterate, we will repeal as soon as we reach the Government. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy and gentlemen of the government, you do not trust those you govern. And you know why? Because you don't know how you live. Mr Rajoy, step on the street, talk with the self-employed, with the women entrepreneurs, with the young emigrants, also talk with the interns who are standing today as a result of their cuts and talk with the officials. Get out of the plasma and on the street you'll see how the story gets complicated if you keep holding that the crisis is history. That's what's going on, Mr. Rajoy. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Often, Mr Rajoy, I hear you boast of Spain's good image abroad and we, believe me, are very happy that, for example, Mr Margallo, Spain is a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. By the way, you, who say so much that the European Union is well valued or the image of Spain in the European Union, can you say, Mr Rajoy, that Mr De Guindos is going to be the president of the Eurogroup? Can you hold it? [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] Mr Rajoy, your problem is that you are not the best foreign presentation card of an honest and hardworking people like Spanish. Mrs Merkel resigned a minister with whom not only did she have political ties, but also personal ties, of trust, for copying that minister's doctoral thesis. What will you think outside Spain of a government that has militants like Bárcenas in the party? What will you think, Mr. Rajoy? What will you think, ladies and gentlemen? [[Rumors and Protests.-Applause]] [[Rumors and Protests.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u14	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u15	Well, look, you will think the same as most of the Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, and it is that democratic regeneration in our country will come from the democratic retirement of the President of the Government, that is what you will think. [[Rumors]] His democratic regeneration is to approve a criminal code in solitary; his democratic regeneration is to impose a Castile-La Mancha statute made according to his electoral interest; his democratic regeneration is to put at the head of Spanish Radio-television who was president of Telemadrid; his democratic regeneration is to anticipate official data at his will, Mr Rajoy; his democratic regeneration is to fire in arrears; his democratic regeneration is to beat down the computer of Bárcenas at the headquarters of the People's Party, Mr Rajoy. [[Rumors]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] That's their democratic regeneration. Such democratic regeneration, Mr Rajoy! [[Applauds]] Three years have sufficed, ladies and gentlemen, to know that you have taken advantage of the economic crisis as an excuse to dismantle the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards and to build Spain of inequality. [[Rumors]] I'll give you four examples, Mr. Rajoy. First, its policy of cuts; cuts in everything and for everyone. With your false proclamation, Mr Rajoy, that the Spaniards lived above their possibilities, you have made with your policies that millions of Spaniards live below their needs. That's the truth. [[Rumors]] The second has to do with his job reform. Ladies and gentlemen, 710,000 more long-term unemployed since you are a government. You have nothing to boast about in employment policy, nothing. [[Protests]] With its labour reform the average duration of contracts is fifty-four days. 25% of them don't make it to the week. By the way, Mrs Báñez - look at me for a moment, just a second - correct the data to Mr Rajoy, because it is not true, Mr Rajoy, that one of the two contracts signed last year, according to the EPA, are indefinite, it is not true. [[Rumors]] Do you know what's true, Mr. Rajoy? Seven out of ten jobs lost were indefinite and have been lost as a result of their labour reform. [[A Member: Yes, sir!-Applause]] Thirdly, Mr Rajoy, your job reform is about putting our public pension system at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to share with you a fact which seems to me to be quite eloquent of what I am saying: for 300,000 contributors, before their labour reform, Social Security would be entering EUR 1.9 billion right now. After its labour reform, only EUR 300 million is made available. And today's proposals, Mr Rajoy, how much will the social security deficit increase? By the way, you have paid the pensions thanks to the Social Security Reserve Fund that you inherited from a socialist government, 70 billion euros, 30 billion euros that you have cut since you were a government. [[Applauds]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen - I see that you are more interested in my speech than that of your own President - a tax reform that has been made in proportion to 10% of the population most able in our country. [[Rumors]] The 5,000 Spaniards who claim to earn more than €600,000 a year in the IRPF will pay less taxes than 40% of taxpayers who declare less income, i.e. 8 million Spaniards. It is sarcastic to remember right now - you who appeal, Mr Rajoy, to prudent statements - those proclamations that did not raise VAT or, as the Minister of Health said today - you will allow me, Mr Alonso, to quote you -: the tax amnesty - Mr Alonso said when he was spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group - is the only alternative not to raise VAT. In the end, you have done the usual, you have raised VAT and approved a tax amnesty to the big fraud. Toughness for the honest and benevolence for the defrauders. That's your fiscal policy, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] It is not the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, it is you and your conservative ideology, the same conservative ideology that has broken the most important pact and that nobody talks about in the Spanish public debate, and it is the pact between generations signed during the thirty-six years of democracy. A pact between generations that said that, if studied, a decent job could be found; that if worked, a decent salary would be charged with which to arrive at the end of the month; that if taxes were paid, ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards could receive quality public services; a pact where the children who are parents, ladies and gentlemen, we knew that our elders could receive a decent pension and that our sons and daughters would have greater and better opportunities than we had. [[Rumors]] Today in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of its policies, twenty years old there is no work; thirty years old, if there is work, it is without social protection; forty years old, it is falsely autonomous; fifty years old, there is a certain risk of unemployment or pre-retirement; sixty-seven years old, a frozen pension is paid; and if you are a woman, add to that... [[Several Members: No! No!-Protests.-Applause.]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u16	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u17	If you are a woman, add to this all the wage inequality and a government hostile to the rights and freedoms of Spanish women. [[Protests and rumors]] It's all right, it's all right, it's all right, it's all right.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u18	Wait a minute, Mr. Sanchez. I pray that you will be heard as the President of the Government has been heard before. I pray silently. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u19	Learn from the President of Congress, ladies and gentlemen. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in three years you have broken the pact between generations of democracy based on merit, capacity, effort and solidarity, but there is something that unites all these generations, Mr Rajoy, do you know what it is? That they all charge less than 900 euros a month. You have made what was a nightmare before the crisis, myleurism, become an unattainable dream for millions of Spaniards. [[One Member: Yes, sir.-Applause]] That's the reality, Mr. Rajoy. Ladies and gentlemen, the future must always be seen with hope and you have made it a threat. My party and my parliamentary group come from afar, not from scratch. From the seats on the left and from the blue benches we put in place Spain's rights and also Spain's freedoms, yes, and today, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to build Spain's opportunities. [[Rumors]] A Spain that offers opportunities to the generation forgotten by you and by your policies, those unemployed of more than fifty years to whom you do not bring any present because you cut your present; a Spain that also gives opportunities to the evil so-called lost generation, that of the young emigrants, to whom you offer no future, except unemployment, labour exploitation or emigration; a Spain, Mr Rajoy, that gives opportunities to the collective that suffers the most inequality, which are Spanish women. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain's opportunity will also give our Constitution an opportunity to renew itself and thus to regenerate democratic life in our country, because, in the face of the break-up of one another and the immobilism of another, my parliamentary group and I are calling for constitutional reform. Your position, Mr Rajoy, is well known; it is your favorite in this as in many other things: do nothing. Others propose to liquidate the Constitution, and with this they are insulting the memory of generations who fought for Spain to have a democracy; an imperfect democracy, yes; improveable, no doubt, like all, but democracy. And so wrong it is for my group and for my party not to move a coma like trying to liquidate the Constitution of democracy The Constitution with which we entered the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution which established freedoms and rights, which decentralized competences and gave opportunities to all the peoples and territories of Spain, the Constitution which our parents and mothers, our grandparents and our grandmothers voted for and which was denied to generations for the long night of the Franco dictatorship. [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, for the long night of the Franco dictatorship. [[Applauds]] Both fronts, ladies and gentlemen, have something in common and it is that they break the pact between generations that represents the Constitution as a framework of civic coexistence. Those of rejection, because they would only be worth the one made by the generations that we did not vote for the 1978 Constitution, excluding all others; and those of immobilism, because they would only be worth the one made and signed by the previous generations, leaving out those we could not vote for. I, ladies and gentlemen, reject both fronts and defend constitutional reformism to modernize Spain without exclusions. I am aware that the task is neither easy nor short-term, but Spain needs to get out of its most conservative inertias. We must recognize new rights and also shield social rights that you are putting at risk with your policies. The great myopia of the Government, the great myopia of Mr Rajoy is not to see that the Spain of the twenty-first century cannot be projected to twenty or thirty years after without doing that exercise of renewal of our rules of coexistence. And, ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia. Catalonia as a symptom of its lack of a country project, Mr Rajoy; Catalonia as a symptom of the blockade of the autonomic model. We defend the union of Spain and not the neocentricism of its government, we defend the union of Spain against Catalan independence and we denounce the inability of the current government to solve the problems of functioning of the autonomous model, its blockade to reform the Senate, its failure to renew the system of autonomous financing, its contempt for cooperation between administrations. As proof, we have the growing institutional conflict: 378 appeals between the State and the autonomous communities during their years of government, Mr Rajoy, a record figure. You rule against citizens, you rule against institutions when you don't manipulate them and you also rule against municipalities with that counter-reform of the Local Government Act, which we will repeal as soon as we reach the Government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, our alternative to constitutional reform in terms of territorial coexistence is based on the autonomous model; it does not break with it, but it makes it evolve towards a federal model. Our proposal for constitutional reform involves changing the Senate and turning it into a real territorial chamber, clarifying competences, improving autonomous financing, increasing cooperation, correcting duplication and recognizing the uniqueness of all the peoples and territories of Spain without undermining equality between Spaniards, rationalizing the model without falling into administrative recentralization and rejecting with complete force the independence that would lead us to the instability and the rupture of our coexistence of all life. To change the policy too, ladies and gentlemen, so that Spain can function again, both in political, social and economic terms. Our democracy must be brought to light at the time of Spain in the 21st century and Spain in 2015. We must change, but we must also preserve the achievements achieved during democracy as the unity of democrats in the face of terror, once again reaffirmed in the jihadist Counter-Terrorism Pact, because only together, ladies and gentlemen, will we overcome terror and ensure freedom. Changing politics, Mr. Rajoy, is also changing the style of government. What things did you say in the opposition, Mr. Rajoy! Do you remember? Do you know what Mr Rajoy was saying in the opposition - believe me; I tell the whole House, not just my group - in those prudent statements he makes and the rest we don't do? [[Rumors]] He said it couldn't be ruled by decree-law. [[Laughter]] It's been sixty-four in three years, and today you've announced two more, Mr. Rajoy. We must stop suffering from a government like yours, allergic to giving face to this Congress: sixty-one petitions for appearance rejected by this Congress and by your Government, Mr Rajoy. It is regrettable that two debates of the political scope of the debate on the state of the nation and the debate on the European Council try to break them down in one session, Mr Rajoy. Does it bother you so much to come to Congress to be accountable to the House? [[Applauds]] Although to hear what you said about the European Union in your speech - a set of topics, banalities and obviations - you better not say anything, Mr Rajoy. I move you to hold a monographic session on the European Council on the day you want and at whatever time you want - next week, next week, whenever you want - but separate the debate on the state of the nation and the debate on the European Council. [[Rumors]] , because you have devalued Congress and thereby devalued Spanish democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, reforming the Constitution and addressing an agenda for fair recovery are the ingredients of the leap of modernization that our country needs to build that Spain of the opportunities that rewrite the pact between generations that you have broken with your government action. His Government took advantage of the crisis to cut rights without having solved any of the fundamental problems of the Spanish economy. Moreover, I am convinced that you will lose the opportunity to do so now that the wind blows in favor. To achieve a just recovery, a number of challenges need to be addressed that have simply worsened in their responsibility as a Government. The first has no doubt to do with unemployment, especially long-term unemployment and youth unemployment. The second has to do with the net external debt, which is absolutely triggered and absolutely crazy. Mr De Guindos, please tell Mr Rajoy that according to the International Monetary Fund we are the second largest country in the world's foreign debt. Tell Mr. Rajoy, because he doesn't know. The third relates to public debt, which is one hundred per cent of gross domestic product. What a time those, Mr Rajoy, in which you said from the opposition - again from the opposition - that it was impossible to govern with 67 % of public debt! And with a hundred percent public debt, Mr. Rajoy? [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] In your speech you said, Mr Rajoy, that the welfare state is not viable about other people's money. With a hundred percent of public debt? With an increase of 8 billion euros in public debt per month since you are President of the Government? Be careful in your statements, Mr. Rajoy. Be careful. [[Rumors]] What we have to do is this. Firstly, we must put an end to job insecurity and wage devaluation. A new Workers' Statute must be adopted, labour reform must be repealed and the minimum inter-professional wage must be raised. Secondly, we must reindustrialize and internationalize our economy. You have said absolutely nothing in your speech on industrial policy, and you have no lack of reasons, Mr Rajoy, because there have been cuts in industrial policy, in foreign trade and in R & D+i. In addition, in the face of the decline in business credit, we must open up new avenues for financing businesses. Thirdly, we must compete in value added and not in low wages; we must not cut the scholarships by EUR 276 million, which is what you have done, and their amount by 21%, what we must do is to double the number of scholarships, Mr Rajoy; we must not devalue vocational training, but put it at the same level as the countries that have the best vocational training; we must not cut the active employment policies by 36%, Mr Rajoy - as you have done - but strengthen them, because our country has more than 3 million long-term unemployed; we must not abandon the unemployed young people, but we must really boost the Youth Guarantee Plan, which has only benefited, because of its ineffectiveness, Mr Rajoy, and that of Mrs Báñez, 30,000 of the million unemployed young people in Spain. Finally, what we have to do is really reform our tax system, not patch it up so that you continue to win the usual ones, which is what you do with your tax reform, Mr Rajoy. [[Rumors]] We have to ban tax amnesties by law, we have to really pursue tax fraud with more tax agents and ensure their neutrality. It is curious, ladies and gentlemen, that whenever the right-wing government in this country uses institutions for its own benefit: the Tax Agency, justice, Spanish Broadcasting... [[Rumors]] You turn all the institutions of the country not into just institutions, but into institutions of party; you are the right of always, Mr Rajoy, the right of always. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last debate on the state of the nation of the legislature, the debate that I am convinced will open up a new time, a time of political change in our country. If I had to summarise all the criticisms of your government action in one word, Mr Rajoy, I would talk about resignation. You hope that many Spaniards will resign themselves to a future worse than their past and to the certain risk that their children will live worse than they live, and that, Mr Rajoy, I cannot forgive you; I do not forgive you because the Spaniards do not deserve it and because Spain, even with all the difficulties, is in a position to offer the best opportunities for the future. You claim that the Spaniards assume that the economy and well-being are incompatible, and that is not true; you claim that it is not possible to enjoy economic development and to maintain the rights achieved at work, in health, in education, but it is not true; you tell us that if we want recovery, we can only renounce the dignity of a good job and a good wage, and I tell you that all this is a lie; you claim, Mr Rajoy, that the Spaniards resign, comply with a country of inequalities, an aspiration proper to their ideology, I do not discuss it, but not to fight the crisis, but the crisis as an excuse, a country for the 10 % most powerful of the population while forgetting the working middle class of our country. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the only certain incompatibility today in Spain is the incompatibility of the continuity of your Government and the just recovery of the Spaniards, that is the only incompatibility. [[Applauds]] It will never happen as long as you remain in government, because you are incompatible with a just economy, with decent employment, with equality and solidarity; you are incompatible with workers' rights. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is going through a difficult, complex moment, undoubtedly the crossroads once again, but the Spaniards know that there is an exit to the left, a safe and hopeful change. We must not resign ourselves to false recovery for a few, because a just recovery for all is possible; we must not resign ourselves to the policy that turns our citizens away, because a policy that faces people is possible; we must not resign ourselves to corruption, because a clean policy that works for the majority is possible, a policy that rewrites the pact between generations that you have broken from the government. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Apply the story!]] That is my ambition and that is our challenge. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez, after listening carefully to your brilliant speech, I have come to the conclusion that you think more about Mr Iglesias than about the problems in Spain. [[Laughter]] I come here to talk about Spain. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Your Honor, you are the secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, you should have more level in your speeches. [[Applauds]] I will tell you more, I do not know whether or not Mr De Guindos will be the president of the Eurogroup - it would be magnificent -, what I am sure is that you could never be after listening to your recipes in economic policy. [[Applauds]] Those taxpayers who make as much money, as you mentioned here today in the afternoon, pay more taxes with the People's Party government than with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, IBEX 35 companies pay more taxes with the People's Party government than with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] How do you talk about corruption when you have deputies and senators who have been called by the Supreme Court and have not asked them for any responsibility? How do you talk about corruption when in Andalusia you have shielded three honourable Members by putting them on the standing committee so that they are not summoned by the judge? How do you talk about corruption? How can you talk about unemployment? How can you give prescriptions to be effective in combating unemployment? Do you know that your government left Spain with 3,400,000 unemployed? How can you give a single recipe to talk about unemployment in our country? [[Applauds.-Protests]] [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Do you know that last year's unemployment in Spain fell by 478,000 people for the first time since 2006, as the EPA says? Do you know that the occupation rose in Spain by 434,000 people for the first time since 2007? Do you know that the number of Social Security affiliates in 2014 rose by 418,000 people? Do you know that in the last four years of socialist government, 3,300,000 people have lost their jobs? Do you know that more than 2,000,000 people left social security contributions? Do you know that in December 2014 there is less unemployment, measured in terms of EPA, than in January 2012? Do you know that the unemployment recorded in January 2012 was clearly higher than in December 2014? Ladies and gentlemen, we have changed the trend. With the inheritance that we have received it is evident that in half an hour we cannot create jobs, but we have turned the situation around and until 2013 we did not start to grow and create jobs because we had to overcome the situation that you left us, as I explained this morning; we were on the verge of rescue, on the verge of bankruptcy, with all the balances. [[Rumors]] Now there are results. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, don't ever talk about employment again. The Socialist Party in many years cannot speak again of employment or temporality because there were more temporary ones at the end of 2011 than at the end of 2014. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u22	Mrs. Ramon, I'm calling you to order for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u23	Don't try to manipulate reality. One of Mr Sánchez's brightest contributions to Spanish economic policy this afternoon has been the assertion that the People's Party has caused a great damage to the Spanish economy. I'm going to tell you what a great wreck in the Spanish economy is, Mr. Sánchez. A great ruin in the Spanish economy is, for example, 3,400,000 people who lose their jobs. A great destruction in the Spanish economy is the years of recession that you condemned us with your policy. A great ruin in the Spanish economy are the imbalances that prevented creating employment and generating well-being and wealth in Spain for a long time. A major collapse in the Spanish economy is a public deficit of 9%. A major failure in the Spanish economy is to have inflation levels clearly above the European average. A major failure is to have a deficit in the external sector above 11%. We were the second country in the world, ladies and gentlemen, the second, in absolute terms - I do not speak in relative terms - with the largest external deficit; 70 billion less collection is undoubtedly a great destruction in the Spanish economy. And it is a great wreck also in the Spanish economy to leave the country on the verge of bankruptcy and rescue; and what we did was to overcome that great wreck, Mr Sánchez. That's what we did. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, do you know what a great wreck in the Spanish economy is? [[A Member of Parliament: What?]] That the risk of poverty and social exclusion increased by 13% in its last parliamentary term, five times more than in the European Union; that child poverty grew by 3.2, three times faster than in the Union to 27; that inequality grew in Spain, see Gini, see 80/20, read it; that the number of households with all its unemployed members increased by more than 1 million; that youth unemployment increased by half a million people; that unemployment among women increased by 132%; that the purchasing power of pensions was liquidated by freezing in a year when inflation and prices rose by 3 %. That is a hard blow to pensions, because - I insist - the others have not frozen them. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] How do you speak, Mr Sánchez, of foreclosures, if they increased between 2008 and 2011 by 134, and in these years it has dropped by 19? How do you criticise the decisions that the Government has taken in this area when you did not take any of them? They didn't do anything at all! They didn't do anything at all. [[Rumors]] You are talking about a great destruction in the Spanish economy Yes, yes, if all that is very well, but now let's talk about health, which is an important issue, to which Mr Sánchez has also made an important reference. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] [[Rumors]] As you know, ladies and gentlemen... Yes, yes, health is the competence of the autonomous communities. Did you know that? Well... [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] It is competence; that is, funding is not conditional. Everyone spends the money on what they think is appropriate and convenient. Well, do you know how much, for example, Galicia spends on health care? 40 %. Murcia, 40%. Do you know how much Andalusia dedicates? 30%. And then they talk about cuts, please! [[Applauds.-Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is one thing to talk and another, without a doubt, it is to give wheat. Mr Sánchez has painted a black panorama on the situation of Spanish health. I think Spanish health is very good. I think it is a public service that works well and that there are good investments. Do you know what happened in Andalusia? That 6,100 jobs have been destroyed in the last three years. [[Protests]] It's the truth! Do you know that 3,200 hospital beds were closed in the summer? [[Protests.-Applause.]] Mr Pezzi Cereto exhibits a flag of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia. [[Several Members: Out! Get out!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u24	Mr. Pezzi, you remove that flag. [[Protests.-Applause.]] I'm calling the order for the first time. [[The Lord]] Mr. Pezzi, I'll call you to order for the second time. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Next time you go to the street. [[Mr Pezzi Cereto picks up the flag.-Protests.-A congressman: Out, man!]] Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, neither the lack of jobs nor the cuts that have been made in Andalusia in health and education are arranged by presenting a flag of Andalusia in the Congress of Deputies. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Demagogy, and evil. Mr Sánchez, how do you intend to quote here the Castor project when it was an operation approved by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Minister of Industry, Mr Sebastián? Please! How do you think of quoting the Castor project here? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!-Protests]] How do you think about the bill of light, you, who left a tariff deficit of EUR 26 billion, you, who rose the light continuously for eight years an average of 6.9%? How do you think? [[Applause.- Rumours.-A lady Member: What a level!]] Your Honor, you have explained to us how bad Spain is; that is what you have explained to us in your speech. I cannot believe that it is the intervention of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which has always been more moderate and balanced, or should now also be in its approaches. I said this morning - and I repeat it now - that there are things that still need to be made a great effort, which is why I presented this morning a programme for the next few days, for this legislature, but it will acknowledge that some good things have happened in Spain simply since 1 January. I will explain to you what the media have gathered on the situation of the Spanish economy since 1 January: the growth of our economy was 0.7% quarterly in the fourth quarter of 2014, the first quarter of the European Union; in the whole year, Spanish GDP has grown by 1.4%; the European Commission says that Spain will be next year the country that is growing the largest in the euro area; the EPA, which was published in January, says that there are 433,000 more occupied, 212,000 more undefined posts - that says the EPA - and 477,000 less unemployed; the price of the basket of the purchase basket of the households is going down next year next year - the IPC in January has experienced a drop of 4.4% - and that is important because it affects competitiveness and affects people in January, because the consumer sales of the retail sector have risen by 6.5% year-in-year-in-year-in-the EPA - and 477,000 less; the price of the basket of the purchase basket of the purchases of the households is going down next year; the price of the basket of the purchases of the purchases of the purchases of the households is goings in January has dropped in January, because the sales of the big companies in January has also increased - since the sales of the year - since the year - since we have been in January, because we have been known just a few days - since, because we have been, because we have been known - since, since the consumer government's, because we have gone, because we have gone, because we have gone, because we have gone to the consumer - since - since - since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since, since has recovered the levels of beginning of 2007 and the indicator of evolution of the service sector and business expectations, the manufacturing PMI, too; the latest data of the balance of payments that we have known are very positive, we are in surplus; the credit is improving, in December it has improved by 16% and throughout the year the credit to SMEs by 9%; it also improves the interest rate to the loans of the companies, in December 2014 was 3,9 % according to the Banco de España - said on 29 January -; the credit for housing grows by 24 % in 2014, according to the Banco de España, and for consumption by 19 % in 2014. These and many others are positive data that we have known in the first part of this year 2015. Therefore, I ask you to make a careful assessment of the situation. Spain still has many problems and difficulties, but it is already growing and we grow more than anyone else. Spain is creating jobs for the first time in many years. Consumption and investment are improving, nobody talks about the rescue, we already finance ourselves at prices... Today has made here some discussions about the price of money, but as I told you this morning, we have financed today - not yesterday, today - three months to a zero percent interest. Hey, it's just that it's really hard to lower that price when you ask for money out. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Of course, you didn't get it, but if you have any input to make, I am very much in favour of remembering it. Your Honor, you have spoken again about the reform of the Constitution, but the priorities of this legislature - which I have tried to explain as clearly as possible - were, as I said this morning, first, to overcome the economic crisis, to grow and create jobs, and we are well-oriented. Secondly, there was a territorial priority - and that is a priority! - which was how we solved the problem that some autonomous communities and some municipalities could not pay their dues in the markets. [[Rumors]] Yes, I know very well because you couldn't afford it. [[Protests.-Applause.]] They could not pay their debt dues. [[Applauds]] Nor could they pay their public deficit. Therefore, they could not pay for public services. Besides, they didn't pay their suppliers. There is an autonomous community where we have paid 472,013 bills from health providers. [[Protests]] An autonomous community. Well, we managed to solve a problem that was certainly there and that was very difficult. That is a demonstration that Spain is a solidarity country, it is a demonstration that if we all pull out of the same car, we can solve problems as serious as that there are Spanish public institutions that cannot pay. And that's a decision this government made, and it was risky, because the previous government, in the mouth of its economic vice president and Mrs. Salgado, who then replaced him, said, "Let every stick hold its candle!" Not here, the Government of Spain does not say that each stick holds its candle, but that if it is necessary to help those to whom it is wrong, it helps them. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Your Honor, I think you've made a mistake in your speech. [[Rumors]] I'm telling you with absolute frankness. It is not the same as a party that pretends to be an alternative to government, because of the many difficulties it has to overcome, to make an intervention like the one you have done here today. [[Rumors]] I'm telling you just the way I think it is. Even, I could have built it myself, look - I say it as I think -, criticizing myself, but with a more moderate, more balanced and more sensible speech. [[Mr. Luena López: Thank you!]] [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] I insist again on some of the statements I made this morning. Spain was in a situation of enormous difficulty and I sincerely believe - and we have not had a good time and there are still people who are still having a bad time in our country - that things are going better. We have already corrected the imbalances, we have entered another path, we can finance ourselves, what more problems created us is no longer on our horizon, we are no longer talking about the risk premium, there is no longer a threat of rescue, we are already growing and we are already creating jobs in our country. [[Rumors]] There is still a long way to go - I said it this morning and I repeat it now - but I think we have laid solid foundations for a good future ahead. That's why I made - of course I did - a bet for the future this morning. I believe that we have also managed to overcome this serious social situation. It is very difficult to lose 70 billion euros of collection, it is that there are many, they are more than 11 billion of the old pesetas! It is very difficult to do so by maintaining pensions, raising them, maintaining the public health system, maintaining the public education system, by the way, with more scholarships than ever in the history of our country. [[Rumors and Protests]] More than ever. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe in the future of Spain, we believe that if we continue with the economic policies we have put in place, which now no longer have to be, as I said this morning, policies that demand so much sacrifice, we can now make social policies. [[Several Members: Ah, ah!]] Yeah, yeah, we've already done it, huh? [[Rumors]] Because stopping the rescue, what was it? It's just that if we hadn't stopped the rescue, where you took us, it could have happened to us, as I told you this morning, as happened to others, that we would have had to lower our social welfare by 20%. You didn't find out about that, but I did, and that's why I didn't accept it. [[Applauds]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this year can be a positive year for our country. This morning I announced and now I repeat a 2.4 of economic growth, more than any of the great countries of the European Union. I believe that more than 500,000 jobs can be created in our country this year 2015; last year, with the data we have seen from the EPA - registered unemployment and social security - about 450,000 were created. This year must be more because we are going to move from a growth of 1.4 to 2.4. I think we can continue to correct social imbalances and lay solid foundations for the future, and I think we can make some decisions, as I announced this morning, that will help people live a little better and better, that at the end of the day and at the end of the day it is what we must pursue those of us who are dedicated to public service. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, applause, stood up.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Rumors]] Please, be quiet! Mrs. Rodriguez, I beg your silence, please. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, this is the debate on the state of the nation and you have brought your propaganda here but not the reason. The reason, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be imposed, even with its absolute majority. Scorning citizens, scorning opposition groups, scorning common sense, you have imposed your decisions on us; but that does not mean that you are right, Mr Rajoy. Look: you are so far from reason, that whoever takes the opposite is disqualified or despised. As always. [[Rumors]] Yeah. You're the ones who called 500,000 unemployed defrauders... and then turned out to be 5,000, remember, Madam Vice President? [[Rumors]] You're the ones who despise officials by accusing them of not working, remember, Mr. Montoro? [[Rumors]] You are the ones who call teachers vague, those who disqualify health professionals, do you remember, Mr Alonso, the Ebola crisis? I'm sorry, Mrs. Mato. [[Several Members: Oh!]] It is you who despised the NGOs who denounce the increase in poverty, Mr Montoro. It is you who refuse to open school dining rooms with the argument that the problem of children in our country, in the Autonomous Community of Madrid - because said a president of the Autonomous Community of Madrid - the main problem of children in our country is not hunger, it is not poverty but child obesity. [[Applauds]] Look: it is you, Mr. Rajoy, who have no shame. [[Rumors and Protests]] Those who have no shame. Yeah, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, it is contrary to common sense to hear you say here in the rostrum that you are the guarantor of stability. But if your policy is one that generates insecurity and instability, Mr Rajoy! Insecurity for workers with their labour reform. Insecurity for the unemployed over fifty years old, to whom you have cut the benefits! Insecurity for the self-employed with their VAT increases. Insecurity for families, with their salary devaluations. Insecurity for the students, with their fee increases, Mr. Rajoy. Insecurity for Spanish emigrants, who have only valid health cards for ninety days, Mr Rajoy! [[Applauds]] Insecurity for retired women, who have a pension of 39% below the average pension. Insecurity for women, with their attacks on freedoms, Mr. Rajoy. It is their policies, and not others, that are causing insecurity and uncertainty in our country. Look: the entrepreneurs who have reduced access to credit by EUR 300 billion since you are a government, believe me if I tell you that you are outside those supposed certainties of your policy. The only truth you know is that you have to pay fifty more taxes since you are government. To workers with contracts of less than 20 hours, to workers with salaries of less than 640 euros a month - who are 34% of employees in our country - believe me if I tell you that your declarations of confidence in your policy are alien to them, Mr Rajoy. What they find very proper, very daily unfortunately, is the uncertainty that causes their labor reform, not knowing if they are going to arrive at the end of the month, not knowing if they are going to continue working. Believe me if I tell you, Mr Rajoy, that the 3,300,000 long-term unemployed in our country are not worried about how much employment you have created but about how much you have cut social benefits. [[Rumors]] Mr Rajoy, step on the street, because if you spoke face to face with real Spain you would see how ridiculous your attempt to impose your favorable vision of the disaster that you have perpetrated. They just have to vote in this House that the Spanish are completely wrong. You will win the vote by absolute majority and will be more wrong than ever. They are becoming more and more alienated from common sense, ladies and gentlemen, they are becoming more and more alienated from reason. Mr Rajoy, when you speak I hear you very carefully; indeed, I hear you very carefully. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: We see it.]] I have been observing that displifying tone that you use to qualify all your political contenders for months, and always, ladies and gentlemen, it always strikes me that you are the one who uses that tone. You are very prodigal in disqualifying the adversary but very park with you and your government. [[Rumors]] Although you did not say anything about it in the debate on the state of the nation, two ministers have fallen this year, Mr Rajoy: Mrs Mato and Mr Gallardón. The law against abortion was not a Gallardon law, it was your order, it was your law, and when people knocked it down you hid behind the minister. [[Applauds]] And it wasn't Mrs. Mato, ladies and gentlemen, who made Bárcenas a treasurer, the treasurer was yours, you appointed him. She was paid for the trips, yes, but you were paid for the B reform of Genoa headquarters, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] You hide behind the plasma when you can't and behind your ministers when you think it's necessary and what you run away from is called responsibility and, no matter how much you try to avoid it, it's your responsibility. [[Several Members: Very well!]] I was talking to him about his discriminating tone and warned him that I was surprised that it was you who used that tone because I was amazed by Mr. Rajoy's inability to see himself. Is the President of the Government not aware that it is the Spaniards who have given him the worst, most painful assessment ever recorded to a president in the history of democracy? How do you intend to look over anyone's shoulder? You have done a lot of damage to the Spaniards and also to the country, so be humble because you have failed in your task. Most Spaniards accuse him of being unable to see the reality in which Spain lives and, after many months of observing him, I am not surprised. I consider you incapable, Mr Rajoy, of seeing your own reality. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] I say this, first of all, because in economics, what is not up to you is up to you and what is up to your government alone is down to you. [[Rumors]] You have lowered the price of oil - I said it in the first intervention - and, I'm sorry, Mr Rajoy, but it's not for you. To the growth of unemployment, of labor poverty, to the increase of foreign debt and of public debt, to the massive growth of taxes you have contributed to your government action. And this is the truth: present Spain is an ill-treated Spain as a result of its policies, a Spain without opportunities, a Spain in which you broke the pact between generations of its citizens. It is true that you - we have seen it in this second intervention but also in the first - do not like to talk about these things, prefer to hide yourself in the inheritance received, but your policies have indeed led Spain to the past: to the salaries of 1990, to the investment in public education of the end of 1970, to the investment in R & D+i of a decade ago. You talk so much about inheritance, Mr Rajoy, that you forgot about the future. Speaking of Andalusia, you're talking about Susana Díaz, my partner, the president of the Andalusian Board. [[Several Members: Ohhh!]] Don't worry. [[Rumors]] Quiet. She's talking about the president of the Andalusian board. [[Rumors]] Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u28	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Sanchez. Please don't talk to the speaker, but listen to him. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u29	You speak, Mr Rajoy, of the President of the Andalusian Council and of the next winner of the March 22 elections. [[Applauds]] And I suppose to reply, Mr Rajoy, I should make some comment about your candidate in Andalusia, but it is the same thing that happens to most Andalusians, Mr Rajoy, who do not know you, do not know what you have done and hardly know your name. That's the problem. [[Applauds]] That's the problem, Mr. Rajoy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to tell you one thing: the President of the Government confronts me with cases of corruption and I say to you, Mr President, that lessons from you about corruption none, I am a clean politician, I am a clean politician, Mr Rajoy! I am! I am! [[Greetings.- Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros: At least just like you!]] I have to admit, sometimes you guys have bright black moods. Let's see, ladies and gentlemen, how and where did Barcenes get his fortune? Let's see, Mr. Rajoy, let's think about you and me: Bárcenas was manager of the PP, then treasurer of the PP, handled the PP's accounts, paid for the works of the PP's premises, bought the PP's headquarters, distributed the envelopes for the high offices at the PP's headquarters, it is even said, ladies and gentlemen, that in boxes of cigars; Bárcenas hired the companies that worked for the PP and paid for the PP's election campaigns. Mr. Rajoy, you trusted Bárcenas so much that you ascended from manager to treasurer and from treasurer to senator; and you had so much confidence in him that messages were sent lovingly. [[Rumors]] Barcenes, Mr Rajoy, obtained the fortune from the same sources with which you paid for the black works of the People's Party headquarters. Barcenas drew his fortune from the same sources and with identical methods by which the prosecutor's office has applied for eight years' imprisonment for irregular financing from the People's Party summit in Valencia. Mr. Rajoy, Bárcenes and the PP shared sources because Bárcenes and the PP were the same. And that is your big problem, Mr President, which is why you will never be credible in the fight against corruption, because your name and your history are inextricably linked to the name and history of Bárcenas. [[Applauds]] So, Mr. Rajoy, lessons from you, none, because I'm a clean politician. [[Rumors]] For you, neither Mrs. Aguirre, Mr. Rajoy, nor Mrs. Aguirre puts her hand in the fire. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying the following. Mr Rajoy, I have come to defend those you do not defend; I have come to put a voice to those you want to silence; the Socialists have come to tell you that we want a just recovery, different from yours; we want a Spain, ladies and gentlemen, where politics returns again to the hands of the citizen power, a Spain where politics is clean and serves the majority. We want a Spain where people and companies are protected, where we forever expel the word corruption and tax fraud, where we collectively defend our economy so that we can progress all together. We want a policy commensurate with the dignity of this country, ladies and gentlemen; we never want a country of broken hopes again, Mr Rajoy, we want a country of shared dreams. [[Several Members: Ohhh!]] I tell you very clearly, Mr Rajoy, the Socialists are here to protect those dreams, to protect the majority. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u30	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. President. [[A Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Be strong, be strong.- Various Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: Come on, Mariano]] I pray silently.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to reply not to Mr Sánchez, but to the reply he brought in writing, which he has read to all the honourable Members here. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] It's really not easy to discuss it like that, but since you have chosen that model, at least they make a reasonable intervention because, if not, you're going to end up having a very serious problem. [[Applauds]] He said that this is the last major debate in this legislature. [[Rumors]] I'm not going to take your mind, but, of course, what I can tell you is that you have not taken advantage of it at all. He has not even given the size by far to be president of the Government of this country. [[applause.-Rumors.-Laughter.-Mr.Pradas Torres: You're not funny!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u32	Mr. Congressman!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u33	That yes, it has managed to create some doubt for me, I no longer know if you are more concerned with Mr. Iglesias or Mrs. Díez. Of course, what does not concern him is the general interests of the Spaniards. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]] I thank you for your concern about what sociological studies say about me, but I am also concerned about the place you have taken for the first time in history to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in the polls. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Your Honor, I can tell you these things because I do not bring the written reply and I have to do it there on the march. [[Applauds]] And now what do you want me to tell you about your intervention, Mr. Sanchez? [[Rumors]] He has come to say that I have come to make propaganda, that I despise people, that mine is quite contrary to stability, etc. It is that he has given no reason or argument or said a minimally sensible thing about what interests the Spaniards! So, whoever does the second turn of the line, tell him to snoop around a little bit. [[Laughter]] Because here we come to talk about the issues that matter to the citizens, not to that suffocation that you seem to be trying to get used to in Congress. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] I'm not doing it! Your Honor, you said that the action of the Government was what you said, I will not repeat it. I would like to recall that throughout this legislature there has been an objective that was clearly marked from the beginning and that I have repeated to the point of satiety because it has been more than three years, since 19 December 2011 when I came up here: objective one, one must have a priority, which is to overcome the crisis, to grow and to create jobs. It was very difficult and we had to make a great effort of fiscal consolidation. We arrived at the government with a deficit of 9% and a target set by the European Union... [[Mrs Batet Lamaña: Again!- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u34	Quiet, please! Attend the speaker!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u35	And a European Union target of 4.4%. It is clear that it was not possible with a recession like the one we were living at that time to fall from 9% to 4.4%, but we negotiated, there was flexibility and in the end Spain took decisions on fiscal consolidation that made us recover much of the credit that we had lost in previous years. And we are carrying out a comprehensive programme of structural reforms. I announced on 19 December, and here is the Chamber's hemeroteca and "Diaries of Sessions", which were to be the first to be the Act on budgetary stability and financial sustainability, the reform of the labour market and the restructuring of the financial system. Hey, and today it's all changed. They are very important structural reforms such as education, energy, administration and market unity. And we are carrying out all that government program - a serious government program and not what you haven't told us here today because you haven't told us anything - that has served to put Spain in a different situation. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, do you have any proposals? Because this morning I clearly explained what we had done in the legislature and what we were going to do in the coming months and set targets for the coming times and I think they can be achieved. Instead of being worried about so many typhisms and what the newspapers tell you, you should worry about the general interest of the Spaniards and it would be better for you too, it would be better for you. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Sánchez, I take it much more seriously than many of yours and my work costs me, because it costs me work. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can only say that I repeat myself in the speech I gave this morning. [[Protests]] Don't you ever do anything here again and say anything, it's been pathetic. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Duran has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]] [[Rumors]] Please, if anyone has to leave the Chamber, please do so immediately and quickly. [[Pause]] Please clear the halls.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, this morning you talked about the economy, so let us talk about the crisis and the exit from the crisis. He has not talked about inequality and we have to talk about it; he has not talked about the tension of certain social policies and we have to do so too, as we have to talk about re-centralisation of the State with effect for all the autonomous communities and, of course, talk about Catalonia, to which you have devoted a section and I will do so too. The balance sheet, you said, is not just this year, it is for the whole legislature. Mine will be globally critical, but respectful, as I always try to be and, in any case, knows that as always I will not remain alone in the criticism but I will also move on to the proposal. However, before we enter the debate, let me make two clarifications regarding some of the statements you made this morning. You said textually that the big decision of the legislature was not to ask for the ransom. I agree, but it will allow me to make two additions, Mr President. The first is that I want to remember and bear witness to the story that Convergència i Unite, this spokesman, never asked for the rescue, I always told the President of the Government: it is in your hands, you have more information and knowledge than we, you will know better than anyone what to do. Secondly, it was a good thing not to ask for a ransom in this legislature, but it was also a good thing to avoid it in the previous one, and if it was avoided in the previous one, apart from the government in charge, it was thanks to Convergence i Unió. He should be responsible when he was in the Government and when he was in the opposition. Second of all, you said that no red stripes have been crossed. I think yes, some, and one in particular, which refers to dependence, and then I will refer to it. I shall enter the debate by asking a question, Mr President. The question is: what society do we want for the post-crisis, a society in which middle-aged people can never again return to the labour market and maim the rest of the days with official help? A society - I recall that 61% of unemployment is long-term and persists - in which many young people have significant difficulties in accessing the labour market? I would like to remind you that there is a scandalous 52% - European record - of youth unemployment. A society where families have to pay mortgages for floors they don't have? I know that you said - and then I will talk about it in detail - that you were going to present the second chance project. Or a society in which the middle classes are weakened until their disappearance? I also know - I appreciate it - that you were complimenting them this morning, but the reality is that, beyond praise, they have suffered during these years; attention!, these years and previous. [[Rumors]] In any case, this is the society we have right now. It is also true, Mr President - I would like to acknowledge this - that there are some positive economic figures, and they must not be ignored or disregarded. GDP has risen and growth forecasts are even more important, the risk premium is very low and there is a rebound in consumption; everything is true, as much as we have a rate - you recalled - of 23% unemployment, intolerable and improper of a developed economy. This is as true as Spain leads, behind Lithuania, inequality in Europe - it is the second European country, so far we are from the state of equity - and as true as for hundreds of thousands of families the crisis has not ended and its situation has worsened. If I may, the renewal of unemployment and the decline in the rate of coverage of the benefits of this unemployment are a very strong expression of this statement. I remind you, Mr President - however, you know this - that the coverage rate in July 2014 is 60.6%, 4 points less than in July 2013 but 20 points less than in 2010; the average amount of the benefit is 788 euros per month, a decrease resulting, among other things, from cuts imposed by your cabinet in July 2012; in addition, the budget allocation foreseen in the 2015 budgets for employment policies is reduced by 40% compared to 2011. We're taking stock of the legislature. Therefore, recalling that European concept of flexicurity, you have remained flexible and have abandoned security, while Convergence i Unió continues to spell out the purpose of the Commission of the European Union as a whole: flexicurity. Jobs have been created, Mr President. Yes, it is true and when you say it you are absolutely right, but I must add - you have said it too - that it is insufficient and - I think you have not said it - of a socially alarming precariousness, even dramatic, if I may say so. Over 40 % of contracts are part-time and temporary, and 40 % of temporary contracts have a duration of less than three months, i.e. short work or temporary contract. There is an explanation, Mr President, which clarifies what I am trying to reason with. In 2014, according to the EPA, employment grew by 2.5% and - it has been repeated - the gross domestic product by 1.4%. How is it possible that GDP, gross domestic product, the country's combined wealth, will grow less than employment? Simply because the jobs that are created are of low quality, of great precariousness and of low productivity. These are the reasons why GDP is growing more than employment, because the growth in employment would normally be the same. This, logically, has an impact on something that has not been talked about today: at poverty levels - more people, more families at risk of poverty and exclusion -. According to the European Network to Combat Poverty and Social Exclusion - I will probably discuss the figures, so I quote the source, so that it is not a personal opinion - 11.7% of the poor have work in Spain. Why, then, is there talk of poverty when you have a job? Because in the rest of the family there are many people without work or have precarious or poorly paid jobs. There are high rates of child poverty, Mr. President. In our view, the crisis should serve us - not done - to reflect and make decisions beyond the conjuncture and electoral prospects on whether or not what we have seen happened because of the effects of the economic crisis questions the economic model. Our answer is that it does question the economic model. We must go - little is said here - towards a social market economy, towards an economy of the common good; language that is used in other countries of our environment, but here we do not talk about it. We have to talk about well-being, of course! But understanding that it will only be achieved from the commitment of society as a whole, starting with the family. Here's a first question. What comprehensive policy for the family does your Government have, beyond ad hoc measures? I am talking about a comprehensive policy, taking into account - much more in the future - that the family is the driving force and guarantee of social welfare and that obviously we have to evolve from the economic data of the welfare state to the welfare society. Now that I am talking about family, the impact of unemployment in many cases has been reduced because many children and grandchildren have lived at the expense of savings or grandparents' pensions while they have not had a job. Here, therefore, the strength of the family is demonstrated. Our parliamentary group has proposed to them on several occasions - I think a legislative initiative is still alive - that child benefits should be fully reformed. I proposed to you, Mr President, a plan to combat poverty, but only EUR 17 million have been allocated and poorly distributed among the autonomous communities. I asked the Ministry of Finance a question that has not yet been answered - I do not complain, because it must be within the deadline - about what resources the Ministry of Finance is obtaining from the regularizations of capital that were abroad after the tax reform. What's the income? Can't those incomes be devoted to fighting poverty? Is it not possible to devote income that was not intended to help the weakest in this inequality society? Mr President, in order to continue to guarantee the welfare society to which he referred, we need a linked society that strengthens families, just as we need to strengthen the third sector. I have not heard the third sector expression in the whole debate so far. They can offer more and better guarantees for well-being, but they must be encouraged. Families must be helped and the third sector must be helped. As I have asked you in every debate - not only in the debates on the state of the nation, but also in every budget debate - I ask you once again, Mr President, where is the law of patronage? Convergence i Union presented a project, but you said it was bad and that you would present another much better. We have submitted a second draft, but you said that you would present the sponsorship law at a certain time because, apart from its positive effects on the social sector and the third sector, it would be very important for the cultural sector. You said that when the time came for budgets you would make the law of sponsorship. You have reduced the allocation of culture, you have not made the law of sponsorship and you keep VAT at 21%, to which I will refer later. If that were not enough, the Minister of Education, who is also the Minister of Culture, challenges the amount of 0.25 cents of euro that the Generalitat of Catalonia sets for Internet data lines. Minister, a tax that does not challenge companies is challenged by the government. You do not and do not allow the indignation and perplexity of the Catalan audiovisual sector to be made and transferred in the face of this decision of the Government which, of course, we do not share. Mr President, we need a productive economy that prioritizes industrialization - I do not think that the words prioritising reindustrialisation have been heard in this House today either; that it has a social soul; that it is supported by families, in the third sector, by businesses, especially SMEs and the self-employed; that the principle of subsidiarity is applied, something that appears in the social doctrine of the Church and that we should not be ashamed to quote it, because it was and continues to be a source of inspiration for the Italian left or for the social market economy. On the basis of these premises, the question, Mr President, is: Is government management oriented in this direction? In the view of the parliamentary group to which I have the honour to represent, no, clearly no. Since we are talking in the first place about occupation, I would like to ask you once again where is the plan to tackle unemployment. Mr President, remember that I asked you to do so in every debate, even in every budget debate - then I will talk about it - and reduce taxation on employment. Do also what is provided for in the Law of Self-Government and which you have not developed, which is part-time self-government. Why have they decreased - as I am talking about social policies -, Mr President, by the new Local Government Act and cuts in the Concerted Social Services Plan by 70% compared to 2011? Why have you weakened the welfare network of the municipalities? Why should we draw figures - although I know it can be a bit demagogic to make this distribution in terms of the possible number of beneficiaries and the number of funds allocated - come out at EUR 3 per year and per citizen of the EUR 8 million that must be attended to? I insist, I want to frame him in his fair correspondence. Therefore, all I want to mean is the alarm at that attitude of the Government. They are therefore correcting this error. With how quickly you legislate, with what you like the decree-law you still have time to correct this very serious error that has important social consequences. I told him earlier, Mr President, that a red line had been crossed; I meant dependence. What's the matter with the unit, Mr. President? One in five people who have already recognized the right of dependency, therefore, to receive a benefit, die before receiving it; 100,000 people in 2014. According to the Observatory of Dependency, the contribution of the users is greater than the contribution of the ministry, knowing on the other hand that 80% of the expenditure belongs to the autonomous communities and that the transfers of the Government to the autonomous communities have significantly decreased, not simply in health and education - which you mentioned earlier - but also in social matters, in social services. I have once proposed - and I continue to do so, Mr President - an update on the subject of dependency. We did not vote in favour of that law, but not because we understood that it was not necessary but because we did not share some of its contents and because we did not see it economically viable; and time has given us reason. We would be prepared - I think it would be necessary - to speak, to make a recess, an update, in order to lay the foundations for a genuine law of viable dependence. You have created many illusions, but know that also many frustrations with the Unity Law, and that must be corrected. I'm talking about dependent people, though not always elderly people; sometimes I do. Let's talk about young people. I don't think I heard you talking about the Youth Guarantee Plan this morning, Mr President; I'm sorry if that was the case. In any case, I would like to make one statement: let us invest in youth, since it is certainly to invest in something that tomorrow will allow us to collect. There is a report, Youth Needed, by the Spanish Youth Council, which says: If the situation continues to be the same in Spain, more than €57 billion will be lost between 2014 and 2024 as a result of a lack of tax collection and hundreds of thousands of immigrants, more than 200,000, between 2009 and 2013. Betting on youth is the only possible option for the economic future of this country. I reminded him last year of a letter sent to me by a group of UP students; let us stop regretting, let us stop reporting it and let us invest in active housing policies in favour of youth, youth occupation. [[University-ready]] If the same report were not made - the cost of pensions on wages would be reduced by 12 percentage points. He comes to say: Who will pay future pensions if we are not able to meet employment needs and people leave this country? [[Rumors]] Yes, Madam Vice-President, it is you and not me who are in the government. Therefore, I try to ask the Government, I try to make it, I try to make proposals. You guys then make me the case you make me, and that's how it goes. Let me make one last observation, speaking of youth, because I like to use - the other day I was reminded by a colleague from a parliamentary group - a phrase from Pope Francis: We are in the discard system. We rule out older people, we rule out young people, and this is a big, big, big social problem. We talked about housing. Everyone knows that there is a scourge that causes many people to lose their homes due to lack of payment, mortgages or rents. I do not deny good will to the Government - I stress the Government's goodwill - but I fear that in many cases it has been more media-oriented than effective: regulation of the code of good practice, only 3% of host families; possibility of postponement of the launch, 8,000 families, but I believe, if I am not misinformed, that it will end in May. He created the Social Housing Fund: there are no housing in small municipalities, where there is demand. Today announced the second chance project. I am very pleased - let me be ironic, Mr President - that the Government is following the steps of Convergence and Union in this and so many other things. As a modest parliamentary group - sixteen Members - we have already registered a proposal for a law with its corresponding wording, which, as you said this morning, with regard to the fundamental objectives pursues exactly the same. It's normal. Why have we done this without being a government? Because we live in the reality of society and because the International Monetary Fund and the Commission of the European Union are calling on their Government to do so, and they have not done so in a year. Convergència i Unió, sixteen Members of Parliament, presents an articulated bill, although it does not have the advisers and information that its Government has. Let me add one thing on this subject. There are 500,000 people in Spain with life-long debts, and if we do not correct that situation, we force them to live in the submerged economy, and consequently we stop entering; therefore, we cannot attend to some necessary social policies due to lack of income. Let us resume economic policy, because, Mr President - this is the speech of life and we try to practice it with proposals and initiatives in this House - without economic policy for those who generate employment, for those who generate wealth, there is no possibility of social policies. I've said it before. It is good news the growth of GDP, but - attention, without demagoguery - this consolidation of growth is supported basically by two issues: the first, by the best financial conditions, certainly; and, the second, by the resurgence of national demand - are not words of the spokesman of the Convergence i Unió, but of Funcas - but this requires more prudence than euphoria. Why? Because Spain continues to live in a vulnerable environment and subject to possible effects of changes, market perceptions; changes in the outside or inside, political or economic changes. We are in the middle of a debate in Greece. It's working out, I think, reasonably, how you should think it could be done. [[Some didn't when they were looking for the votes.]] There are other political aspects, there are economies close to ours that do not work as they can, not only macroeconomicly, the Spanish one. Therefore, we have risks, both political and even internal. I have said that on more than one occasion, Mr President. The problem of Catalonia, which I believe is a Spanish problem - I have told you on other occasions - if there is no solution, it can also become a factor that can discourage markets in general. It is therefore a factor for everyone. That should be taken care of, too. We'll talk about it later. On the other hand, the increase in domestic demand recalls that while exports have grown, imports have done much more. So, have we grown anything in competitiveness? Yes, but especially from low wages, Mr. President. That is our view, and that is how we see it; and that is a fairly shared view in many ways. How, therefore, can we gain competitiveness? How to earn and guarantee job creation, with the current fiscal policy? We understand you don't. In our view, there has been no comprehensive tax reform, Mr Montoro. There has been - let me say and without any offense - a patch, sometimes more for purposes not already electoral, than also, but media; I do not say electoral because, look - I will set an example - exempting those who receive less than 12,000 euros from taxation means an average saving of 49 euros per year; 4 euros per month. It therefore seems to be the great proposal and, in the end, it is EUR 4 per month. Welcome be, but it's 4 euros a month. They no longer have time to do a thorough tax reform, but I will suggest some proposals. They reduce the tax on employment. You announced today a reduction of the first 500 euros of Social Security quota for new jobs; welcome be. You know that this group has always called for action in this direction, but we are - I think - rewarding and encouraging job creation. Why don't we also look for something in the social security contribution line for those who have made the great effort to maintain jobs, for that entrepreneur who has maintained, despite the crisis, employment? We'll have to help him, too, won't we? I very much agree to help create, but it will also have to help those who have endured the type, not simply with discounts of profits but, sometimes, with great precariousness, even family, because they are autonomous or small businesses and the family heritage have endured it to maintain jobs. Shouldn't this one be helped? I think so. Second proposal; they already record the real profits obtained by multinationals with permanent establishments in Spain, even if they do not have production centres. It is unjustifiable that the eight largest international technology companies operating in Spain, which invoice hundreds of millions of euros, in 2013 for profit tax simply paid 17 million euros. Lower the corporation tax for SMEs - you are on time and that would also be another boost. It would be an incentive to productive and sustainable investment with the aim of improving the situation environmentally. Please lower the cultural VAT. France has it at 5.5; Germany at 7; Ireland at 9; Holland at 6 previously had it at 19 but they noticed it and lowered it. Let's lower the cultural VAT, please. Only the United Kingdom has a more or less comparable cultural VAT. Allow me to speak of another guild to which, ironically, I can say that I do not often come, which is that of hairdressers. They've shut down a lot of establishments. There are many people who have gone to unemployment. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] There are many boys and girls who open a business - the vice president laughs at me, she is known - who open a hairdresser on her floor and we are condemning them to a submerged economy. Please lower VAT, which is also important. Obviously, it is different from culture but so respectable is one thing like the other. On the other hand, Mr President, can we talk about a competitive economy, about creating jobs, if credit is what it is? The Banco de España - no Convergence i Unió - says that in 2014 the credit has fallen by 6.3%. It is true, Mr President, that a 8.6 for small and medium-sized enterprises has risen, but it is also - you will not discuss it, Mr President - that it is an irritating increase, while we have been coming up with very significant falls in credit opportunities for years. Remember that FROB faucet announcement in 2013; the faucet is open but it just leaks, Mr. President. There is a shortage of credit and expensive. How much does it cost a bank to go to the European Central Bank for money? 0,05 %. How do you find the money or the credit that has a chance in the market? By 6 % or 7 %; therefore, little and expensive. Proposals. I'm tired of saying to the satisfaction: Let's restructure the ICO and execute all the endowments that the ICO has, because it's not done. At least - I hope so and I strongly ask you, Mr President - they will agree on all measures to ensure that we are able to move the EUR 3 billion from decisions within the European Union Commission to credit for our businesses. I'll make a parenthesis, if you'll excuse me. It is something I repeat in every debate. You're right, but we don't do anything. It's not just up to the government, it's up to everyone. It depends not only on the legislative power, but also on employers: rationalization of timetables, Mr President. It is also an element to ensure competitiveness. More rational schedules... [[The President of the Government, Rajoy Brey, made gestures to the speaker.]] I know you say you'd like to, but you have to have some initiative, Mr. President. It cannot be that the initiative is solely in the hands of civil society, which are pressing and very much. We have to find formulas. If we're talking about competitiveness, let me talk about infrastructure. They have reduced not by 25 % compared to 2010, but the level of infrastructure investment is 25 % of what was given in 2010. I know that there are reasons for austerity, but since there is little investment at least to ensure competitiveness or to create social welfare; this is not the case with investments. See, France has 1,884 kilometres of high-speed rail travel, Germany has 1,032 kilometres and Spain has 2.525 kilometres; an unsustainable AVE. They are not words in this case either of this spokesman, but of the president of ADIF: An unsustainable AVE. Despite this difference in favour of Spain - in that we are champions, we are leaders in terms of kilometers of AVE - regarding France or Germany, when explaining the numbers of passengers transported in France are 120 million, in Germany 160 million and in Spain it was expected that at the end of 2014 we would transport 28 million. Therefore, Germany transports six times more passengers and we have 2.5 times more kilometers, and we are no richer than Germany or France. If we are talking about railways and measures that promote social welfare, it seems to us bad that EUR 12 billion has been invested in AVE during these years - and still EUR 1 billion under construction - when the investment is ridiculous in the vicinity. In the vicinity the number of users there is much higher, 518 million passengers. More about infrastructure and competitiveness. We could talk about the A-27 between Tarragona and Montblanc, for the port of Tarragona, which is fundamental to the competitiveness of companies, not only Catalans; the fourth belt; the N-II in Girona, where it has been built 8 kilometers in twelve years, while on the highway of La Plata, to which I have all respect, they have been built 650 kilometers in twelve years; Pyrenean axis, etc. Let's talk about the privatization of AENA, Mr President. Catalan civil society, chambers of commerce, political parties, professional colleges, the Economic Circle, everyone has called for the individual management of airports, of all in general and of El Prat in particular. You don't listen, privatize and prevent individualized management. They do, however, give way to intervention through the share ownership of funds and financial operators, but not infrastructure operators. Look at the contradiction, Mr. President. Spain is a world leader in airport infrastructure operator, but in the privatisation of AENA there is no share ownership of the new company. Isn't that a big contradiction? We are talking about supporting industrial policy, the cost of electricity. There is no energy policy, there is fiscal policy on energy. We have had enough of pleading for the issue of cogeneration to be resolved; half, simply half. Another important issue for industrialization is the movement of trucks. There are paper industries, Mr President, for example, which require large tonnage trucks to be able to operate; they can do so in Portugal and France, but not in the territory of the Spanish State. Conclusion: the paper industries are going to Portugal. Therefore, we lose industries, and this country, Spain as a whole, the state needs to reindustrialize. In that regard, some problems need to be corrected. In innovation, we have decreased. There is no need to rest on private innovation; the public must guide it. Speaking of other sectors, in tourism, let us take advantage of the fact that there is a certain bonanza to convert, in dialogue with the sector and with the autonomous communities that are competent, those already mature destinations that can no longer be asked for, because they have given everything of themselves. Let us look for new markets together with the autonomous communities that have the competition and with the sectors. Agriculture. For the first time in many years agrarian income falls. Why? For various reasons, surely. The CAP incurs the defects of the past. The Russian veto. When decisions are taken in the European Union, the consequences must be foreseen and aid must be given to the victims, and the agricultural sector, especially fruit producers, caught them in the middle of the export campaign, with trucks on European roads. And in the livestock sector, especially pigs, not because we sell to Russia - yes in the case of fruit, which is the second export market, not meat - but it turns out that the European market is saturated because other countries to which we do sell do not sell to Russia as a result of the veto. When action is taken, it must be taken. Purines. The difficulty of incorporating young farmers, which is a very important issue because we are talking about territorial balance, we are talking about the environment. We must help in that direction. Not a word about it. Services. In progress, insurance law: dialogue with the sector - not the Minister of Economy; in progress, audit law: dialogue with the sector. It cannot be that the regulatory body is attached to the Government. Why don't we do the same with audits as with the National Securities Market Commission? The second question I wanted to touch on beyond the economy: recentralisation and autonomous lamination - not just Catalonia, this is a section that serves for everyone in general, for the autonomous communities as well - and for the municipalities. There is a fact that I think he speaks for himself: 90% of the municipalities of Catalonia, starting with that of the city of Barcelona, resort to the Law of Local Regime before the Constitutional. Why? Because they see their skills laminated, among other things. You have to take note of what is said. Secondly, I am not simply talking about competences, I am also talking about income, not about loans, Mr President. I know he likes it and I'm sure he'll replicate the money left to Catalonia, the FLA, etc. I am talking about income, not loans to be returned and fair interest. Why? Because income is autonomy. Note that the concept is not whether to pay or not, it is the loan concept. I'm talking about financial autonomy. Trias Fargas said that without financial autonomy there is no political autonomy. Therefore, I am talking about income, not loans; loans are dependency, income is, in that sense, autonomy. How can there be an increase in tax revenues of 37 billion in the Spanish total during the period 2012-2015, how can you increase VAT and do not distribute anything to any autonomous community? This is the case for the Autonomous Communities, which, while the State collects an additional 37.5 billion, the Autonomous Communities reduce by 10,000. Of course, sometimes we don't pay on time, but you also have to be aware of your responsibilities. You are not fulfilling the obligation to renew the financing system, you pay the Competitiveness Fund two years late. You do not pay what is agreed in the Bilateral Commission with respect to the third additional provision. You do not pay from those revenues of judicial fees that we discussed because we did not consider them correct, but once you enter 316 million, 58 correspond to Catalonia, and not a cent of euro. All of that, Mr. President, reverberates. Therefore, Mr President, it is not surprising that in the face of a situation during this parliamentary term in which we have not once met the bilateral Commission, the transfer and other type of Commission between the two administrations, plus the addition on the lamination of competences, in addition to income and not just loans, there are more and more people who are tired. It must not be surprising to you that there are more and more people up to the hat of this situation. It is not that you simply do not develop, for example, the new Statute that the judgment required to develop, but that you fail to comply with the above. There are approximately twelve decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court that mandate the management of the resources of 0.7 for social purposes and we continue as before. Don't transfer the scholarships. I am humbled to ask you, Mr President, because you and I signed it at the time of President Aznar, explaining publicly and solemnly to the citizens of Catalonia and the whole of the Spanish State that you and I, as representatives of the state and the Catalan side in the Commission on Transfers, have agreed on the transfer of scholarships, and we remain exactly the same. Therefore, Mr President, we must correct, just as we must correct the competitive investments, from the Education Act to the Children's Act adopted at the last Council of Ministers, for not referring to others such as the Security Act, where the Basque and Catalan police forces, the Mosso d'Esquadra, continue to be denied access to Interpol or Europol data. By the way, speaking of police data, Mr President, allow me to transfer to this House a public statement from the Mayor of Barcelona, Mr Trias, my predecessor in the position of spokesman for Convergence and Union. He said: I mean the constant leak of UDEF reports. The problem is not who investigates - I add: not even who publishes it - the problem is who filters it and the passivity of your Government when looking for those responsible for that leak. Yes, you have a responsibility, it's your cop, and it also affects people like Mr. Trias, who already know what it means. [[Applauds]] Well, you don't know until you live it. And speaking of security, allow me one last comment, Mr President. I cannot - my conscience would prevent me - fail to denounce what NGOs have denounced, what the Council of Europe has denounced, what the Catholic Church has denounced: the hot returns. And on the subject of immigration, I quote Pope Francis again: it is convenient to have a broad and new look at the problem and to adapt more humanist reception policies. Pope Francis. Okay, last but not least. I'm going to tell you specifically about Catalonia, which some call a Catalan problem, even though I think it's a problem, as I told you before, Spanish. Call it what you want to call it, I logically refer to the demand for a different status quo sustained in the polls, in the polls and on the street by a large majority of Catalonian citizens. Things are what they are. You referred in terms that I do not want to repeat the participatory 9-N process. In the last elections, where we were already talking about this, the state of opinion in any poll, on the street, there is a large majority that disagrees with the current status quo and of this majority there is one part - God knows I am not among them - very respectable and we must defend them and we must allow them to bet on independence; some for sentimental reasons, others for sentimental and very rational reasons and others because they consider independence as instrumental, but this reality exists and this reality cannot be ignored politically. You recognized it one day in Parliament as a response to my intervention: this is a political problem. And in the face of the political problem, what have we encountered, Mr President? They have not developed the new Statute; they have laminated competences of self-government through economic stifling, through laws that invade competences. A tax pact was proposed to him. He turned him down. Nothing to say so far, but there is no alternative proposal. And to a political problem, Mr President, only political answers must be given. That which should be resolved at the seat of the Legislative or Executive Branch cannot be resolved at the seat of the Judiciary. Not a single proposal, Mr President, to this day. Not one in four years, not one proposal. This will allow me to call you - and do not take it as any kind of insult, it is a political appreciation - a political negligence on your part. It is a political negligence, said with all due respect. At the same time, Mr President, we are going to find that one day the Catalan Parliament unilaterally declares independence and you think nothing more than to appeal it to the courts. No, that's not the point. The courts are to resolve what needs to be resolved, but the policy is resolved with policy, through dialogue. In my opinion, it was a mistake - and I believe that personally on some occasion, I do not know whether you or any member of the Government, as I have told you - to challenge the declaration of sovereignty of Catalonia. You're in your right. Then there was a ruling from the Constitutional Court. But that was a political statement, it wasn't normative. And I say to you, Mr President, that earlier the Parliament of Catalonia had adopted political declarations on sovereignty and the right of self-determination and with them the PP ruled with Convergence i Unió, and nothing happened. And I think it was also a mistake to challenge what refers to the second participatory process. The Constitutional has not yet ruled on the substance of the matter, although I logically have my own ideas about what you are going to say, but you said that the Constitutional had already said it was illegal. No, he has not said that it is illegal; the Constitution has done what it has done to implement what is provided for in the Constitution, and nothing more. And I regret that the President of the Government does not make a reading of that sentence to his recourse to the declaration of sovereignty of Catalonia - then I will refer to it - because I think it is important that no answer be given, neither with contempt nor simply with courts, to what is a political problem. I think it was a mistake, Mr President, the complaint against the President of the Government and the Vice-President and the Councilwoman of Education, a politicized complaint, although you will tell me that no and I will not be able to prove it, logically, but let me tell you, and that is true, that the Board of Prosecutors in Catalonia did not agree with that content. And look where the State Attorney General resigns after ordering the filing of the complaint, when it was also published - even by some source of his party we knew it was going to be done - that he did not agree with the filing of the complaint. I therefore believe, Mr President, that there is a clear inability to put a political proposal on the table. I believe that there is insensitivity to the need for dialogue: not a single response, Mr President, not a single, to the document of the twenty-three points proposed by President Mas on 30 July 2014; not a single response. It does not move, you do not move and surely will not move - we will see what the future will say - until after the next elections, and we will see how. Do you not realize, Mr President, that if the answer is not political, if it does not go through dialogue, the problem will be definitively overcome and eventually affect that unity of Spain that you defend? He has no doubt the right to do so, and he does so, logically, in electoral vigils and for electoral reasons to distance himself from other political forces. Let us read, as I said before - and I finish with that, Mr President - the part of the judgment of the appeal that you brought to the declaration of sovereignty of Catalonia: The public authorities, he says - and especially the territorial powers that make up our autonomous state, are those who are called to resolve, through dialogue - dialogue - and cooperation the problems that occur in this area, said in relation to the problems raised when one of the parties wants to alter the legal status, the political status. Also make use - I know they will not pay attention to me, but it would be in the public interest itself - of article 8 of the Organic Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Tell the prosecution to give the instructions to be filed and there is an end to these complaints, because they do not help or will solve absolutely nothing. In any case, Mr President, with withdrawal or without withdrawal of complaints, it is clear that there is a political demand in Catalonia, as I said before, which requires an answer and which, whatever it is, in its day it must, if it is to be a real solution, submit to the opinion and therefore to a consultation in Catalonia. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Duran. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to give a full answer to Mr Duran's speech on many important issues. I think I've taken good note I hope of everyone and, without no, I hope at least to answer almost everyone. The balance has indeed been, as Mr Duran announced at the beginning of his speech, critical and respectful and I will start - I will also be critical and respectful, at least I will try - saying that I agree that the great decision of this legislature has been not to ask for the rescue, for the reasons that I have tried to put forward in this House this morning and that I will not repeat it now; that Mr Duran and his parliamentary group, Convergence i Unió, did not ask for it; that it was good not to ask for it in the previous legislature either; we also never ask it, and of course it was also good to avoid it. It's not hard for me to recognize that plainly and plainly because it's true, and whenever you say what's true, you end up having no problems. Mr Duran has started talking about the rescue and the red lines. It is true that what allowed us not to accept the rescue, that our economy was not rescued, was to maintain economic sovereignty and, therefore, having as we had to meet, like all the countries of the European Union, the requirements of deficit and public debt and to make a policy of fiscal consolidation, it is true that we were able to decide which policies we were going to maintain and in which policies we were going to make some budget cuts. I had here a record, which throughout the speech I am absolutely convinced that it will appear, where the money from the General Budgets of the State is said to be spent by the Government of Spain. Almost 40% of the State's general budgets are devoted to pension policies; they are approximately - I do not remember at the moment - around EUR 120 billion. Then there are policies dedicated to the payment of debt interest and unemployment policies. In this legislature, what we have tried fundamentally is to maintain social policies, especially pensions and unemployment, which are the responsibility of the Government, and we have greatly reduced the budgets of all the ministries, you know this because it is your duty as president who is of the Foreign Committee, the budget dedicated to cooperation and you know that in cooperation and in many other policies we have had to do this because there is no other option, because, as I said this morning, when one loses €70 billion in income it has to prioritize and see what policies it maintains. We have tried to maintain, I insist, the major basic public services: pensions and unemployment, because that was what the government was up to. And with the Supplier Payment Plan we have also tried to help the Autonomous Communities maintain health, education and other social policies, such as support for the third sector. You asked a question at the beginning of your speech to which I will answer with medium clarity. Have you asked what society we want, a society in which young people find it tremendously difficult to find a job and therefore to live a life and do what they think is right and right in your country? A society in which people over 50 can find a job? Or, on the contrary, do we want a society in which everyone has to live from an aid or a pension? With absolute clarity, because I said this this morning in my speech, I bet that there will be more jobs in Spain. I have said that in 2014 - you know - there have been more than 400,000 people who have found a job, this year will be more than half a million, and I have set as a country target, because I think it can be done perfectly if the gross domestic product continues to grow - and then I will refer to this issue that has touched upon in your intervention - which can reach twenty million jobs at half a million jobs created each year. That is, if we do things right and persevere in the policies that we have carried out throughout this time. [[The lady]] There is a part of your speech to which I would like to devote a couple of minutes, with your permission. You referred to the Spanish middle classes and said the same thing that I pointed out in the morning, that they have suffered and very much the effects of the economic crisis. They have suffered it because in Spain there has been an increase of 3,400,000 people in unemployment in the 2008-2011 legislature, and in addition throughout 2012 and much of 2013 has continued to increase unemployment in our country. It has been suffered by the middle classes because hundreds of thousands of small and autonomous enterprises had to close, even some liberal professions have suffered much more intensely because there are sectors that have almost ended in nothingness, although some, such as construction, are now beginning to recover. And it has been suffered by the middle classes because 70 billion euros of loss of revenue in the years 2000 and 2009 obviously end up creating a lot of problems for the citizens. However, I would like to give you a data that I consider important, rather, three data on middle classes. Note: in Spain, 72% of taxpayers - this is a truly remarkable figure - have a liquidated base of between 12,000 and 60,000 euros, here is 72% of Spaniards, none have a liquidated base of more than 60,000 euros. From 60,000 to 150,000 is 11.9, from 150,000 to 600,000, 3.22, and more than 600,000, 1.05%. The middle classes in Spain are very large, fortunately, because if anything gives stability, security and future to a country it is the existence of middle classes. Well, what have we done, knowing that this is a problem that is there and that we have to make an important effort? Firstly, we have changed economic policy to create jobs, because, as you said again here today in your speech, job creation is the basis of everything, first, because people can work, with what that means, but also because that means that we spend less on unemployment, less on social benefits, that there is more collection, and that means that there is more consumption and therefore more gross domestic product and more wealth and well-being in our country. That was the first thing we did: an economic policy aimed at all, but logically and in a very special way to the middle classes. And fortunately, as we have already pointed out on numerous occasions throughout today's debate, more than 430,000 Spaniards found a job last year 2014, something clearly insufficient but that is there, because if we persevere, I insist, it is the beginning of a good stage for employment in our country. Secondly, we have kept pensions - this has been a political decision - to more than 9 million Spaniards. We have done everything in our hands to maintain their purchasing power and we have had the fortune that inflation in Spain has been historically low and continues to be so throughout the days we are living right now. A great deal of effort has also been made in the field of unemployment in our country, and that certainly helps a large part of Spanish society. There are two or three issues that I wanted to address - I know your group is concerned about - and the Government has endeavoured to address. We have tried to support the self-employed and the SMEs, we would have liked to do so more intensively, but we have done what has been possible in a situation like this. We cannot forget that we have approved the Plan of Entrepreneurs and that very important decisions have been taken such as that of the flat rate of Social Security, which has been very useful. We fought for credit, we fought, and then I'll give you the credit data. With some of the statements that you have made I cannot agree. We have now launched a tax reform based on a reduction in taxes, mainly to the middle classes and Spanish families. Mr Duran, we have approved three checks of 1,200 euros a year that are compatible with each other, one for large families, one for families with descendants with disabilities and one for families with ascendants with disabilities. Today we have announced a new cheque that we will soon adopt in the Council of Ministers for single-parent families with two children. Another very important measure to which you also referred in your speech which we have adopted today is the reduced rate of EUR 500 for social security contributions. This is very important because it affects everyone, but it mainly affects many small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. One of the demands is that the biggest anti-employment tax is social security contributions. That is thoughtable and questionable, but it is clear that it is a very important expense for any company, whether large or not, but especially if it is medium or if it is small it is for much greater reason. That is therefore an important decision and one that is primarily intended for the middle classes of our country. We have also announced today, and you mentioned this in your speech, the second opportunity. Well, this reform that actually exists in Europe and in which I know, because it is my obligation, that Convergence i Unió was very committed, is now going to be approved by the government. It will not be approved, with all my respect, because it says Convergence and Union, but it did say Convergence and Union and, as we think reasonable, we will approve it. It is a reform that is also addressed to the middle classes of our country. Among the reforms that I announced this morning is the bonus to facilitate the reconciliation of self-employed workers. Self-employed workers are the middle class par excellence in our country. This request they have made to us supposes to put us at the same level as the workers on behalf of others. Where a self-employed person has to take care of children under seven years of age or of ascendants, he or she may hire a person and such employment shall be subsidised as if he or she replaced a self-employed person. There is no doubt that much more remains to be done in our country, as we have said on many occasions today, but all policies have a great objective which is to cater to those Spaniards who represent 72% to whom I referred in the first part of this speech. Mr Duran also acknowledged the positive and negative data on employment and unemployment and then had an intervention on a subject that is important that is that of inequality and child poverty, on which I would like to make some considerations. In the end, all these issues that affect people's lives are not resolved by a decision on a specific and determined matter either by a specific rule or by a law or by a decree-law. At the end of the matter is to make a global policy of which some rules, laws, decrees-laws or royal decrees are part simply, also of which budgetary allocations or simply decisions are taken by Governments or by society itself. What we have done in the area of social policy - I will not repeat what I have already said in the morning - is the following: firstly, to avoid the rescue, which, as I explained, has been very important, especially for social policy; secondly, to implement the Autonomic Liquidity Fund and the Payment Plan to Providers, which has also been very important to maintain many social policies in our country; thirdly, the main objectives were: firstly, to create employment; secondly, to maintain the basic services of the welfare state; and thirdly, to protect people in situations of greatest vulnerability. Creating employment, as we know - and I don't want to repeat it anymore - is what contributes most to the well-being of people and their families. Therefore, all strategies of the Government and any responsible Government need to focus on employment. Secondly, we have made an effort to maintain the basic services of the welfare state. This was another of the major priorities of this legislature. There are more people with health cards, more university students who have scholarships, more pensions and higher than there were at the beginning of this legislature. Thirdly, an effort has been made within the economic possibilities, within what we could after the fall in income that has occurred in our country. First, the adoption of the National Plan for Social Inclusion. We have given stability to the Preparation Plan. We have launched the extraordinary activation plan. We have approved - this is important, Mr Duran, and it was a few days ago - the Social Entities Support Plan, with EUR 3 billion for the payment of outstanding invoices. That was very important and has fixed the problems of many social entities. We have established programmes for the payment of food to families in situations of great difficulty. We have strengthened subsidies under 0.7 and created the Social Housing Fund. We have taken action against an issue that is a real drama in our country and wherever it occurs, which is the creation of the fund to combat child poverty. Undoubtedly we could have given it more, but it has been an important amount, which this year will almost double. The specific and cross-cutting plans we have put in place always address the problems of child poverty. In addition, we have improved the protection and rights of children in the reform of legislation to be adopted this year in the Courts. Mr Duran, this is an important issue, but I would like us all to be aware of how developments are also taking place in this area. The indicator 80/20 - all the data I am going to give are data from Eurostat, from the Economic Office of the European Commission - compares what earns 20% more income with what earns 20% less income. According to Eurostat data, for the first time in several years it is falling, which means that there is less inequality. That is a positive fact, because there has to be much less inequality than there is today, but we are moving forward in the right direction, as they are in the economic and employment areas. The Gini index - also Eurostat data, European Union - is falling for the first time in 2013. I do not have the data for 2014 because Eurostat has not yet made them known to us, but it is a positive fact that the trend has also been reversed here. Finally, the poverty rate. How many people are below 60% of average income? For here too in 2013 begins the improvement after years past very bad. Now the goal is to improve this data and that in the years 2015 and 2016 things are getting better and better in Spain on a topic that is undoubtedly one of the most important and of those that worry, and rightly so, the whole of Spanish society. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what Mr Duran has said that for many people the crisis has not ended and that employment is insufficient. I can only agree with you on those two statements you made in your speech. However, I would like to say a few things about the quality of employment, because, as in all matters, we must be fair when it comes to establishing a position. There is a very positive figure and it is that during 2014 more than 400,000 Spaniards found a job. I have been concerned about the quality of employment, because it is one of the criticisms maintained by some, not by you. He used to say that no job was created; when it is created, he says it is of poor quality. The percentage of people working more than 40 hours a week in December 2014, according to EPA data, is above the percentage that worked in 2011. That's an important fact. There are more people working and there are more people working 40 hours. He has also referred to two other issues which are certainly not minor. One of them is the rate of temporality. Of course, we all want indefinite and not temporary jobs. Well, the rate of temporality in the third quarter - that's the last data I have here - of 2014 was 24.6%, but 7 points lower than before the economic crisis in our country. There are many sectors that have temporary employment, as we all know, because they only open up three or four months a year, especially in the field of tourism, at least in many parts of our country, and this is undoubtedly a challenge we are going to continue to work on, but 75% of the workers in Spain are workers with indefinite contracts and it is therefore fair to recognise it. The other issue, which is also very important, is that of part-time work. The big question is: what is best, a temporary full-time job or an indefinite part-time job? It is true that 60% of part-time employees would prefer to work full-time and those people have to be cared for, there must be work - there is 40% that does not, but there is 60% that does - but in any case, if you read the data from the latest EPA you will see that of the work created last year, 367,400 are full-time and only 66,000 - only not, are many - are part-time. And there is another fact that is also very important and that is that many of the part-time jobs have become full-time jobs. I wanted to make this intervention so that they would also know the position of the Government. Employment is the challenge and indefinite and full-time employment too, but I want to tell you one thing. In many countries of the European Union, at the will of people in some cases and in others because it is not possible to do better, there are part-time contracts that solve many things to many citizens, although others do not and work part-time because they have no alternative. Mr Duran has referred to other matters. I agree with what you said about the Unit System, what you want me to say. I agree. When Spain can afford it, we have to devote more resources to the unit, but I'm going to give you a breakdown of the government's budgets to see what we spend the money on. In pensions, 121 billion and we have decided that we will not reduce expenditure on pensions. I'm talking about the year 2013. In unemployment, 27 billion and we have decided to take care of unemployment. In debt interest, 38 billion. This, fortunately, is coming down and is going down more in the coming years, but there is no choice but to pay for it. And the spending of ministries in 2013 was 34 billion, but two years earlier it had been more than 50 billion - that's where the effort was made -. In the case of the unit, the system was collapsed, with 300,000 dependants on the waiting list. It was generating a budgetary gap of 2.7 billion euros, which did not pay anyone - then had to pay it, of course - with respect to the initial forecasts and there was also a debt of 1 billion euros to Social Security by family caregivers. We have reformed the system to ensure its sustainability, to give priority to large dependents, to reduce waiting lists and to improve performance control. Today there are more beneficiaries with recognized benefits served than in 2011 and new beneficiaries are incorporated; in this legislature, 302,404 people until the last day on which my services have been provided to me. Waiting lists have been at the lowest levels since 2006. We have satisfied the inherited debt of EUR 1,034 million with the Social Security Treasury. We continue to work with the autonomous communities to deepen the improvement of the system and, when the budgetary situation permits, we will make a bet to better address this situation. But we have had to prioritize and, since we had to reduce public spending, we have tried to pay as much attention as possible to all matters that really mattered to citizens. Mr Duran, you have also spoken about cultural issues. I am aware that this issue has raised a great deal of controversy. We do not raise taxes because we like it; it is not something that is in the philosophy of our party. I am fully aware that within ten days of coming to the government - ten days! - I had to raise the income tax on natural persons. It's just that if I don't, we'd be broken. And at six months, when the risk premium was 635 basis points, in July 2012, I had to raise the VAT. As always in life, priority had to be given and there were many sectors. You have quoted the hairdressing industry and also the culture sector and you are right, but I do not think there is a single sector that you can quote here in which you were not right. We decided to give priority to a very important sector for Spain, that of hospitality and catering, the tourism sector, which accounts for 11% of Spanish GDP, and we put VAT at 10%. Some countries under rescue have VAT at 23%; I will not quote them for obvious reasons. In any case, I would like to say that in the reform of the income tax on natural persons, which has already entered into force a few days ago, an effort has been made to support culture. Deductions to film productions have been improved. Measures have been taken to encourage e-books by eliminating the current tax competition with other countries. It also favours the performing arts with a new tax incentive for live performances and has increased tax incentives for sponsorship by encouraging fidelity in contributions. They are steps in the right direction that have been taken and we have come as far as we thought we could go, but this is a line in which we must certainly deepen in the future. Mr Duran, you also referred to credit. Here you're going to allow me to make an observation. I have previously cited the credit data that I have collected from the Banco de España; here I have the data from the Banco de España, which is the source I have. In 2007, SME credit rose by 6%, housing fell by 15% and consumption by 4%. That was the last year with positive data, although already housing fell by 15% in 2007. In 2008, SMEs dropped by 9%; housing by 40%; and consumption by 24%. In 2009, SMEs dropped by 26 per cent; housing by 16 per cent; and consumption by 24 per cent. In 2010 it dropped by 20% to SMEs; by 5% to housing; and by 27% to consumption. In 2011 it dropped by 17% to SMEs, by 46% to housing and by 35% to consumption. Look at the year 2011. In 2012, SMEs dropped by 16%, housing by 14% and consumption by 15%. In 2013, SMEs fell by 8%, housing by 32% and consumption by 8%. In 2014 for the first time since 2006, credit to SMEs, housing and consumption grew; 9%, 24% and 19% respectively, as I pointed out in my previous intervention. An important issue is the credit stock. Since debt levels in Spain became unsustainable - we all know it - a part of the Spanish private sector is still in a process of debt reduction that is normal and desirable. This process does not affect all sectors alike. It is logical that it has been more acute in the sectors previously most indebted as construction or real estate promotion; that is very well understood. The key is to ensure that the debt relief process for those in debt is compatible with the re-crediting of households, SMEs and companies that have completed the adjustment process, and all data show that the re-crediting is improving at rates that had not been observed during the crisis. Therefore, that is a very important fact, it is a good fact. In addition, the reduction in the volume of credit is related to other sources of financing that some large companies have been making, such as the alternative fixed income market. I'm going to continue with the unemployment shock plan. It is indeed a classic proposal of its political strength, but it is not clear to me that a shock plan is necessary as such, because all the policies that are adopted in the government and that have the least connection with economic matters have an objective, which is the great objective of this legislature: the creation of employment. This morning we announce that we will bonus the first 500 euros of any contract as long as it is indefinite. So what's the point, giving someone an amount? No, you think you're a job in our country. The same is true of the decisions we have announced today in the area of self-government or of all the decisions we have taken throughout the legislature, such as the Entrepreneurs Act and an endless number of measures we have taken for SMEs and self-government. That is the great objective of this legislature, it will continue to be so until its end and it will have to be so at the next one. He talked about evictions and the second chance. It is an issue that I believe we will adopt next Friday in a royal decree-law; we are willing to listen carefully - since you have already submitted a proposal for a law - to your opinion on this matter. He also speaks of goodwill in evictions, of the code of good practice. Look, it's that some steps forward have been taken; it's that there was nothing before. These things must also be taken into account; it is not the same thing from a certain situation as from a much worse one or a much better one; when judgments are issued about what has been done, we must know where we started. He has made an economic policy observation on GDP growth forecasts which I consider to be very appropriate and which I am concerned about. We must be cautious and not euphoric. I agree, and believe me when I say that I've turned this thing around a few times. So far the government has been more cautious than euphoric - probably because that is my way of being and that of my collaborators in this matter - but in the years 2013 and 2014 we were wrong in the forecast of growth and down; we said that in 2014 we were going to grow 0.7% and we grew 1.4%. I think saying now that we're going to grow 2.4% is not bad. You say we grow for credit and consumption. That is true, but that also means that credit and consumption are increasing, Mr Duran, and that is very positive, because it shows that there is confidence in people and that there is already beginning to be some joy, that people consume more. Now, I want to add some other reasons that have also contributed to GDP growth, because it is not just consumer credit, it is also the external sector, the increase in our exports. It is true that our imports are also increasing, much in equipment goods, but also in cars. I'd like to buy cars produced in Spain, but you'll understand that I'm not going to tell people what cars they have to buy. However, the last data I know of exports in December is very good and the foreign sector is also going to close 2014 in positive. And improving competitiveness also affects GDP growth, but the only reason - you have referred to it - is not the wage agreement made by trade unions and employers at the end of 2012, which was a very useful agreement for our country. We cannot forget that, for example, prices in Spain have been in a better position for seventeen months than in Germany, which is one of the most important countries in the European Union. Therefore, GDP increases for many reasons: for credit and consumption, but also for the foreign sector, because our companies have started to export, many times because they had no other alternative, but there has already been a very important culture for the future, because a country needs - at least I believe that Spain needs it - to have a positive foreign sector and not to live from indebtedness, which leads to nothing good. We have also talked about tax reform. It has asked me to take more decisions, more action on the issue of SMEs, on the issue of self-government. I'd like to, but when it comes to tax reform, we have to consider everything and we have to prioritize it. Is there anything else you can do? It can be. We've announced some today. I do not rule out more things being done throughout the rest of the legislature. We have talked about VAT - I have already referred to VAT - and also about the Bank of Spain and credit. On the subject of timetables I can only say one thing, Mr Duran, I agree; I agree that I always say that I agree, I agree that then, in the end, you do what you can and I agree that something needs to be done. As far as high speed is concerned, the data you have used here, as I have just been told by the Minister of Development, are not from the AVE. Spain has more kilometers of high speed than any European country. Since we arrived at the government, the AVE has grown to a total of 29 million passengers in AVE and in long distance, 162 % in 2014. Here many things have influenced: that other lines of AVE have come into operation and that tourism, not only international but also national, has improved. Therefore, AVE and high speed are something that, in addition to being appreciated by everyone, makes a lot of sense from the economic point of view and not just from the point of view of people's comfort. In addition, prices could be lowered, which has also been an acquittal for people to use. I agree that the tourism sector is working very well. Everything that can be done to improve it would be very important; for example, opening shops on Sundays is very important because it improves tourism and generates well-being and wealth. He has commented on the alleged re-centralization of this Government, the revenue of the Generalitat, the Local Finance Act. All these matters are conceivable. As I have already pointed out many times during this legislature, we have not done everything, obviously it was a legislature to set priorities, but there was one that was in the box: overcoming the crisis, because if we do not overcome the crisis everything else becomes irrelevant. And to overcome the crisis was not only to make an economic policy that led to generating employment and therefore more resources for everyone, for the Government, local governments and autonomous communities, but also to fix the economic problems that many institutions had, and we have arranged it with the Autonomous Liquidity Fund and with the Supplier Payment Plan and we have not approved a new system of autonomous financing, you are right, but we did not think that it was possible to approve a model of autonomous financing in a situation like the one we were living in, when we had just lost €70 billion in income. Mr. Duran, it wasn't possible. The model of autonomous financing must be approved in a situation where income is beginning to grow. Therefore, this is a model that we must leave for later; there were other priorities. One last comment because it is the last subject that Mr Duran addressed in his speech on Catalonia. I agree, so far we could get there, that everyone can think as they see fit and convenient. It would be tremendous if someone could hold a statement against this which I have just pointed out. Second, Catalonia is very plural like many other places in Spain. Some people think one way, then they can change their mind, as happens to all of us so many times in life, and there are others who think differently. When we adopted - and today the Spanish Constitution has been discussed - a few years ago, we made a decision in which we all gave up things that we liked, probably the nationalist parties and, of course, those that we are not nationalists, but we did it to create a framework of coexistence that would be useful and useful for everyone. Of course, to say now that it is no longer worth what was agreed upon in your day does not seem to me to be a reasonable procedure. We are certainly faced with a political problem, Mr Duran, yes, but it is also a political problem - and I think it is even greater - that the law is not being complied with, because if we have any obligation to take responsibility - you, or the members of the government, or anyone who engages in this noble service, as I said this morning - is to ensure compliance with the law. I'm willing to talk and I've never refused to, but for that there has to be willingness on the part of everyone. And when the only margin given to one is whether or not he accepts the call for an illegal referendum, the margin to speak is certainly smaller, because he has only the alternative of yes or no. About the 23 points I'm willing to talk about, and what you want. I already know that the margin is not very large or, in other words, it is small. I will endeavour - as I believe I have done throughout this parliamentary term - to solve the problems of the citizens of Catalonia. But I'm willing to talk, except for what I said this morning. With me, they do not have to talk about Spain's unity, national sovereignty, equality of rights between Spaniards, or fundamental rights. I think you'd better tell him and I think you'd better know. Don't count for that; for everything else, yes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Duran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, I'll start at the end. Certainly, Catalonia is plural, and it will not be Convergence i Unified who denies that plurality to the President; as is Spain. But it would be undemocratic if, accepting the plurality of Spain, the representativeness of this Parliament was not recognized. And it is undemocratic that, accepting the plurality of Catalonia, you do not recognize that the majority of political forces, a broad majority, of Catalonia are calling for this change of status quo. That's the big difference. You tell me: We made a Constitution. Of course I do! And we all give up things. Of course I do! We know better those who defend it than those who did not defend it, and some who did not vote for it, who are in their ranks and not in mine. We know a lot better. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Mr President, I have a democratic right to propose a reform of the status quo and you, if you are the President of the Government of Spain and you have an important part of Spain, which is Catalonia, which some of us consider a nation, and it turns out that the vast majority of citizens express that will in the ballot box, I would attend to that political problem. You tell me: I don't want to talk about the unity of Spain, sovereignty, etc. But talk about something! He says: I am open to the 23 points dialogue. Yes, but it has been a few months since July and there is no dialogue here, and the President of the Generalitat handed him that document. Then there is another question, Mr President. Some of us want to change and therefore put forward a democratic proposal to change the status quo and others are changing it. I have explained this to you throughout my speech, Mr President. You're laminating the competitions. That is to change the current status quo; not to make a legal change, but to change that Constitution by which you say that in your day we all give up something. It's just that you guys are doing it day by day! I explained to him that the Children's Act since the last Council of Ministers only has one competence: to issue non-binding reports. What kind of autonomy do you want? The autonomy they wanted when they were against Title VIII of the Constitution? Because through funding mechanisms and political mechanisms they are reducing it to nothing. Therefore, we have the right to propose a change of political status and you are proposing it from your majority since you are governing at this new stage. Madam President, I shall refer to other issues very quickly. The ICO. I just got a paper from Mr. Sanchez, which I don't have time to play. [[Laughter]] We're still being given the data from the Banco de España... [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Sanchez and Llibre. This one's good. [[Laughter]] I mean the paper, don't be so ironic. I'm respectful of everyone, I mean the role. And our data on the Banco de España is different from yours, Mr President. Then we'll have to contrast each other's paintings, but there's something you haven't discussed with me. There are two issues. First, the ICO does not exhaust its forecasts and instead there is demand for credit, then something is failing. My demand was to restructure the ICO, it's a permanent, recurring demand. I get heavy, I know, but something doesn't work. When they have a credit line and they don't exhaust it, something's not working. Secondly, banks' credit is expensive. There's little and expensive. As for what he said about contracts, I reaffirm myself in what he said. Over 40 % of part-time contracts are also temporary and 40 % of temporary contracts last less than three months. Therefore, shortness of work or temporary contract. Source: Fedea. I mean, I ratify what I said before, I don't make any kind of change in the approach. Pensions and social issues in general. A reform that, to the extent that inflation is normal again, will impoverish pensioners. But we must also talk about other types of cuts, for example in unemployment, especially for older than 50 years, and without a policy of supporting older workers. We have to keep talking about social issues, about dependence. 80% of public expenditure - I told you and I remind you - belongs to the autonomous communities and the co-payment to the citizens is exactly higher than the state's contribution. And, Mr President, it only talks about equal rights when it comes to Catalonia; when it comes to disability, to citizens in general, to what we pay in Catalonia for tolls, what they pay elsewhere, when it comes to other things, there is no equality, there is inequality. I defend equality, of course I do. But families with persons with disabilities pay exactly the same as those who earn 18,000 euros as those who earn 99,999 euros a year. In addition, many people with chronic diseases cannot cope with that copago. That's pharmaceutical poverty, Mr. President. If we are talking about a just society, that must also be taken into account. To combat child poverty is impossible with that precarious employment to which it refers and with a child benefit in charge of Social Security of 991 euros a year, just as it is impossible to combat it through a system that in our view is not useful, such as the tax checks to which I have referred. Universalizing is to increase the child benefit per dependent, which is the approach that has been taking for a long time Convergence i Unió. Now, at the moment, there is still a living legislative initiative in the same direction. You say that you have maintained the two social policies prescribed by the State. But underfunding the autonomous communities and reducing finalist contributions, for example, in dependence; with strong cuts, but not only in dependence but in health and education. Then they save our precarious situation. On the one hand, they take us out, reduce us and, on the other, lend to pay what they have first reduced and lend less than what they reduce. Mr President, there is another issue to which you have not referred and which is very important to us: industrialization. I insist that reindustrialisation should be placed as a leitmotiv in the government's action, and it should also be a milestone, and that once and for all, the differential fact of talking about competitiveness is not wages or euro/dollar change, but investment in innovation. I know that we must prioritise; you said that we have had to prioritise VAT. I don't know if the culture sector is going to like them saying that they don't prioritize culture when it comes to prioritizing. I understand that governance is a priority, but let us try to ensure that the VAT we have here in some areas that are competitive in other European countries can be equivalent to European; and I told you what is the VAT on culture elsewhere. With regard to the reduction of social security quotas, I have no reservations about recognizing that we like it, that we like it, but we will have to think, as I said, of those employers who have kept fixed jobs. Why wasn't it done before? Why does reducing social security contributions mean meddling income or, rather, increasing expenditure? Yes, but you have to think with a different mindset. If one reduces social security quotas, if one makes life easier for businesses and self-employed people, they will generate occupation and by generating occupation there will be more people who will not receive unemployment benefits, more people who will pay their taxes, more people who will consume and more people who will generate income from the State. That is the change of mindset that I ask you, let us bear in mind that it can only be turned around by encouraging the economy, and the economy is what it is from who are the main actors, that is, companies and self-employed, entrepreneurs and workers. I thank you very much for the recognition of our second chance initiative and what I am asking you now, Mr President, is that our text, which is a broad, modest text if you wish, be read well. I have already repeated to you on several occasions that we do not have the capacity of a Government, but we have gone ahead with the Government. I therefore thank you very much for that recognition, but please read well what you are referring to. Taxation, self-employment, SMEs, etc. For example, we do not agree that the retention of the self-employed is 18% and we call for it to be 15%. I'm talking about retention, not taxation. We are making the self-employed fund the state; it also turns out that many people have the declaration to return and you have to pay them the money that you have already made. That weakens the activity and if this happens, we'll go back to the old thing. Here we can be saved by the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are trying to create jobs, and the self-employed. So let us help them and make life easy for them. I repeat that our claim, and it is still present, is VAT for SMEs at 20% and not 25%, as it stands. Mr President-in-Office, my time has run out and I am also aware that I have previously extended. I just want to say that if you are prepared for dialogue, once and for all practice it and if you do not agree with our proposals, do some because at least we will know what to do, because now you are not making any kind of proposals, Mr President. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u42	Thank you, Mr. Duran. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have an excessive interest in this debate, nor do I think it contributes much to this debate that we are involved in on some issues. But there is one thing I would like to make clear, Mr Duran: this Parliament, which is the national Parliament, cannot take decisions on everything it considers appropriate and appropriate. It cannot because, although national sovereignty is represented here, there are competences that do not belong to us. For example, liquidated national sovereignty, because that, according to our own constitutional text, belongs to the Spanish people and that is why a referendum is necessary to amend that article of the Constitution. In the same way, by setting an example that is fashionable or current today, the Greek Parliament, by a large majority which the government in office may have, cannot make a decision on what needs to be done in the European Union or on how to restructure its debt and not even on whether or not its debt can be restructured. Why? Because it has no competence, as it has been credited, over these matters. And in the same way that the Catalan Parliament can take all the decisions it deems appropriate and appropriate in the field of its competence, like all the others. So, I think it's good that we all make these things clear. Of course, you have the perfect right to consider a reform of the status quo. That's where we could get to! You have a perfect right. But what you have no right to do is to do so using a different procedure than the law does. Neither you nor your group, nor any of the Members of this House, nor any of the groups, nor the Government of Spain, have a right. On the other hand, Mr Duran, Catalonia is plural. Yes, in fact, Catalonia is plural as Spain is plural and then we have to think about everyone: in those who raise the need for a referendum, in those who raise some things like the ones you raise and in those people who also have rights and freedoms, who are Catalan citizens who are Spanish and feel it. These too must be thought of, and my duty as President of the Government is to think of them as well. [[Applauds]] God forbid I question Mr. Sanchez's papers. It's never occurred to me. The good stuff I didn't say, I'm not going to go into those details. I do not know, because I do not have the ICO data here; but I do mean that credit in Spain is improving. I mean, that's an objective fact, Mr. Duran. We cannot deny what we all know is so because these are the official data of the Banco de España. Of course, if we question the official data of the Banco de España that I have read here before, then we are already beginning to question everything. So, it's not true; credit in our country is improving. Another thing is that there are some companies in some sectors, mentioned above the construction and promotion, that have to follow - and that is good for them and for the country - with their process of deleveraging. In any case, I believe that credit is capital for everything but fundamentally for the growth of the economy and for generating investment and wealth. I cannot agree with what you have said about indefinite and temporary contracts. What I have said is that 75% of people working in Spain have an indefinite contract and 25% have a temporary contract. That's what I said, and I keep it. Another thing is that there are many temporary contracts that are continuously bound and that is why many temporary contracts appear in the statistics. But out of every hundred people working in Spain, seventy-five have an indefinite contract. He talked about spending, dependency and social services. Now I have the file I referred to in my previous speech. I have only the data, but not the budgeted ones, but those already executed of all public expenditure in our country, not only of the Government. In Spain, in 2012, all the administrations, 23.71 %, were dedicated to paying pensions. It was the first item in the budget. The second item was basic public services; here is everything: general services of administrations, defence, public order, security, external, etc., with 13.74 %. Thirdly, health, very close, less than one point: 12,91 %. Then there was education, with 8.67 %; other social expenditure, 6.52%; unemployment benefits, 6.34%, and there was a part of other economic activities. In that section of other economic activities it was where we made a further budget reduction, because if we compared 2012 with 2013, the pension line went up by 6.30%, that is, it was logically the line that went up the most, as we had said. Unfortunately, debt interests have risen - fortunately they are now falling - and basic public services have also risen and there has been a slight decline in health and education. But the share of other economic activities was 34%. It has been prioritized and sensible and reasonable decisions have been made, and now, overtaken by the worst of times, we can already recover some positions in some items that we have no choice but to lower our budgets, our own, those of the autonomous communities and also those of the local corporations. I agree with what you said about SMEs and self-employed people. We make very difficult decisions in 2012: first, we lower the IRPF; secondly, we lower VAT. But we never touched the taxes of small and medium-sized enterprises until 2013, when we already made a reduction for the first time and made things easier for small and medium-sized enterprises. And then, already definitively, in the year 2014 for the year 2015 we made the tax reform to which you referred in your intervention. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Garzón in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u45	Mr Rajoy, we have come up to the rostrum this day of the state of the nation debate to say three things fundamentally: the first is that, after listening to you this morning, we think that you have more future as a storyteller than as president of the government; but not much more future because you have to know that the end of a storyteller is entertaining and what you have done this morning has been a weapon of mass distraction. Get down to reality, Mr. Rajoy, please. The second - very important too - is that we have to recognize that, however, your policy is being quite a success; a success, yes, for the big fortunes and big companies that virtually no longer have more money in their pocket than you are filling them with. Thirdly, we must also say that fortunately there are alternatives to the suicide policy being pursued by this Government. Your government is brilliant, it is brilliant as a student advanced from Mrs Merkel, the first in the class, there is no doubt, but it is leaving us a truly desolate country. You and Mrs Merkel have confused your governments with a business school and our firm conviction is to build something very different from that: a country where people's needs are served, and that can only be done from the principles and values of the left of social commitment, of social justice. For that, as I said, fortunately we have proposals, some of which we will be making right now. You once said the crisis was history. This morning he repeated it again, but for that he had to torture the statistics until they confessed what you wanted. You have spoken several times about economic recovery, but, Mr Rajoy, economic recovery, your economic recovery, is the increase in inequality, poverty, poverty, environmental aggression, social regression. Worse still, Mr Rajoy, you have described a country in which only a minority of the population is recognized, only a minority of the population. Ultimately, it seems as if you have only spoken to the powerful, to the privileged, to those who have not only not suffered the crisis but have taken it as an opportunity to enrich themselves even more at the expense of the social majority. Listening to you, Mr Rajoy, one could perfectly say that you live in a bubble; you live in a country other than that of most citizens. It's not that your story lacks skin, Mr. Rajoy, it's that you lack rigor and shame. [[Applauds]] It lacks rigour for an essential issue; it lacks rigour because half of the things you said here this morning are directly false and the other half are a blatant apologia of the suicidal policies that have brought us here and that have pushed the majority of society towards the dramatic situation that lives. Therefore, Mr. Rajoy, I must ask you very sincerely: Have you ever left the bunker of La Moncloa? Have you come out to see the everyday reality that is out there, not on the road to La Moncloa? Have you seen her? Have you seen the daily reality of misery, unemployment? Because the way in which the majority of citizens live is not the result of chance or accident, it is the result of their policies, of the policies of their government; the drama of the majority of citizens has to do with what you vote for in this Parliament and with the laws that this government does. You, Mr Rajoy, do not know the street, do not step, do not spend the sole of the shoes, only spend the ink of the pen with which you sign the cuts that cut the lives of the majority of the population. But we offer, Mr Rajoy, that you walk with us through different parts of the state so that you know and hear first-hand what people have to say about words like economic recovery or exit from the crisis. Do you remember, Mr Rajoy, that a couple of years ago we presented in this House a proposal for no one to go cold in this country, to fight energy poverty? The People's Party voted against, voted against preventing people from getting cold, it was just like that. And you have to know, because it seems that you ignore it or that it doesn't matter, that in this country there are people living in the dark, there are people who only eat once a day, there are people who can't see the face right now to you because you don't have to pay for the light and turn on the TV, there are people who are living that reality, that reality you haven't made a reference to this morning. That is the reality you are ignoring, but that reality is your daughter, Mr Rajoy, the daughter of all the Members who have signed these cuts here. That price of light is shooting every day, every month, it is shooting without you doing anything at all; on the contrary, your energy policy is to kneel at the feet of the big energy companies. In fact, this is the only way to explain that you are now thinking of imposing a sun tax, a sun tax! What are you going to do when citizens can't pay that tax, you're going to cut off the sun? To whom are you obeying in energy policies? Because, Mr. President, what do you think of Endesa? What do you think of Endesa? That is a crucial question for us because with the scandal of the looting of Endesa, you, in particular, have said absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing of the looting of Endesa, and you are supposed to be President of the Government. [[Applauds]] Perhaps your silence has to do with the fact that whoever put you there as leader of the People's Party has been head of Endesa for a long time. And that silence probably also has to do with the front bench, with the silence of the Socialist Party, because we do remember that Endesa was first privatized by 33% by the Socialist Party and then by 66% by the People's Party, and that at the moment dividends have been distributed for 14 billion euros - I insist, 14 billion euros - without this government having said anything at all. A company has been dismantled that would have prevented people in this country from passing cold, if the government had wanted, but they have said nothing, they have been complicit in an operation. But you know, Mr Rajoy, that in the new country that we want to build this will be prohibited, the privatization and looting of companies that are of all Spanish will be prohibited. That is why we are launching the first pillar of our proposals: we must tackle the state of social emergency in which this country is now sinking and that can only be done by making the businesses and economic resources of this country available to the people. No person can lack food, no person can lack access to housing, no person can lack access to water or light; that is what a worthy government would do: not allow companies to be plundered, which are instruments to prevent it. Mr Rajoy, you have said that you are creating jobs but you are not creating jobs, you are tearing down the little jobs you have left. Are you proud that people live in the forest by articulating garbage contracts and looking for life hard? Are you proud that nine out of ten contracts are of a temporary nature? Tell us, Mr. Rajoy, would you like to not have a working schedule, to meet with a boss imposing on him a whim that he has to assume, that he is forbidden to protest and that he has to thank himself to be a slave with food before a starving man? Because the country you're creating looks a lot like that. You are creating the Spain of the handler - you know, it is an Andalusian expression -: get up in the morning with the uncertainty of whether the head or the powerful in turn will grant you work with which to be able to bring income to your home. That's the Spain you're creating, which forces people to articulate several jobs for hours, if you're lucky enough to find a job. That probably happens to the parents of that girl you once told us about, to whom you promised - remember? - work and housing. Work is likely not to have these parents today and housing, if they have been evicted, neither. You have not said anything about evictions so far, nor do the proposals you are making seem very credible. This morning there was a eviction near here, another in Orense and so many throughout the state, but the drama is that many of these evictions are made from public companies like Bankia, that is, for which you are the last responsible. Therefore, you are directly the one who is evicting families when that happens. Leaves people, families, unsure, unsecured, unfutured. We need a new country, it is obvious; we also need a country where men and women are equal. Do you think it makes sense, Mr Rajoy, that a woman should cover 24% less than a man for the same job? Well, that's your responsibility, too. Do not now come to us with that that is determined in the market, because you are president of the government, not the correveidile of the big companies and the merchants that you call the market. [[Applauds]] The second pillar of our proposals for our country is called guaranteed work. You try to fool the Spaniards by saying that there is no money to create jobs, but you actually know that it's a lie, that what there is is no political will because you have other kinds of priorities; you are more of the priorities of rescuing banks without money, highways without cars and airports without planes, those are your priorities. But the truth is that only half of the money that Bankia cost to rescue could get a million people out of unemployment and that's when political will is needed. And it could be managed from the civil society sphere with public money funded. It may, technically, be possible, but there is no political will because you simply did not want it. Mr Rajoy, work is fundamental to developing a dignified life. Do you know how it feels when a suitcase is packed, when you have to leave your land, your memories and your family to look for a future in a strange land? Well, that's what thousands of Spaniards do every day. The streets of Rome, Berlin, Frankfurt and all parts of Europe of the Spanish language are being filled by fleeing from the country you have created, fleeing from your policies. His Government and bipartisanism decided to implement policies that have taken the future away from us. Mr Rajoy, with great effort our parents and grandparents have devoted themselves throughout their lives to the conquest of social rights in order to enable our generations, the next generations, to live in dignity. Thanks to people like them, like most Spaniards, I was able to study in a public institute, in a public school and in a public university and, however, I was particularly filled a scholarship a few years ago to go to London too for the lack of a future in this country. Fortunately, today I am privileged because I can tell you exactly what millions of people want to say, the thousands of people who have had to leave this country and the other thousands of people who have had to stay but do not have the tools to create a better society and to live in dignity. That's a privilege to my judgment, the privilege of being able to tell you the voice of the street. And in a new country obviously, in the new country we need to build, we are in favour of giving the keys to the thousands of young people who have left so that they can return and build their lives here decently and not with excuses as you are saying. But do you know, Mr. Rajoy, why people go to Germany? It is not a question of cultural interest, it is a very simple question also and related to the economy: bipartisanism ripped off our industries and left us a desert of bricks and cement, because in the end the German economy is an economy specialized in high value-added products. Do you know how much high-tech they export? 10 %. Do you know how much Spain? 4 %. Do you know how much Greece? 1 %. Therefore, it has nothing to do with wages. You are committed to lowering wages to workers in Spain, you are committed to your strategy of wage moderation which is suicide and not the cause of the problem. Wages are higher in Germany and you know it. You simply use this to increase the profits of large companies because the original problem that makes Spain less productive is its productive structure, and there you, the People's Party and the Socialist Party and the architecture of the European Union, are responsible for the process of deindustrialization. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, you and your Government are looting the social gains that the generations preceding mine have achieved. They are tearing down public health, public education, public pensions and even public enterprises. They are destroying, in short, with all the conquests achieved after the dictatorship. Let's be clear, Mr. Rajoy, you're looting this country to sell it to your friends because only by understanding it this way, with this chastity caciquism, you could understand what you've done with AENA. And I don't just ask you for responsibility because I already know that it started with the Socialist Party, but the truth is that what you have done with AENA is a real barbarity. Five years ago AENA was valued at 30 billion euros and now you have sold it for just over 4 billion euros. In addition, some of those who have been lucky buyers have been handpicked. You are not liberals, Mr Rajoy, you are not liberals, gentlemen of the People's Party, you are freed; you are freed from markets and merchants to make the state available to the great fortunes. [[Applauds]] Only then could it be understood that they sell part of the country. In the hard trenches, the young man summons the country and sells it. Antonio Machado. He seems to have written it thinking about you, thinking about how companies are privatized and privatized what is everyone's. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rajoy, tell me what you've done to avoid rotating doors. I tell you, nothing, absolutely nothing. Large companies continue to pay favors to former ministers and senior officials of the public administration. Rome doesn't know, but Spain is paying traitors. Felipe González, José María Aznar, Elena Salgado, Ángel Acebes, Eduardo Zaplana, Pedro Solbes, Rodrigo Rato - the list is endless -, politicians of bipartisanship co-sponsoring the posts of administration of the big companies, in exchange for what? In exchange for the keys of the public administration, so that it privatizes the public and can be sold better. Access to favourable contracts in exchange for the opportunity to plunder the public. You know, Mr Rajoy, that in a new country these kinds of acts will not fit, they will not fit parasites. Therefore, if you have in mind the idea of leaving that chair when you finish and go to a big company, take it out of your head, because in a new country that we want to build that will be pure nostalgia. Where you govern, Mr Rajoy, Members of the People's Party, hospitals are privatized and education and public justice are deteriorating. You're leaving services only for the rich. It happens with justice. We do not believe his last proposal, because what is needed is to repeal judicial fees directly. You defend the interests of the powerful, of those who can afford to pay for a expensive operation in private health, of those who can afford to access the private university of your friend José María Aznar, but you are still the president of all Spaniards, not only of the most powerful, and therefore you have sold yourself to the best bidder and the rich are the only ones who have the ability to pay for your services. Fortunately, however, the Spanish people are mobilizing more and more: We stop evictions; we defend public health and public education at tides; even justice has paralysed their attempts to privatize hospitals. You know all this perfectly well, Mr Rajoy, that is why you have put the law into effect, and that is why you have articulated with the Socialist Party the hardening of the Penal Code. Because we are not talking about jihadist terrorism, we are talking about the peaceful resistance of thousands of people to their regressive policies. Today, Mr Rajoy, there are 300 trade unionists in administrative and criminal repression for going to demonstrations and pickets. [[Applauds]] It was a long, long time ago, Mr Rajoy, that this did not happen in Spain, because you know that your most active opposition is the organized left and social activists, that's why it criminalizes us and signals us grossly, that's why it tries to turn a social order problem into a public order problem. In a new country this did not happen, because when we went out on the street, we went out to defend human rights, and in a dignified country human rights would be respected and we would not lose money on strikes or waste time on demonstrations if human rights were fulfilled. Therefore, Mr. Rajoy, if you close the Congress and put it on the fence, we will open the Congress and the doors with the keys. By the way, Mr Rajoy, do you think it makes sense that at this time there are workers, such as those from Coca-Cola, who have to camp for a court order to be served? Do you think it makes sense that the police should come and also beat the workers instead of protecting them and enforcing the court sentence? [[Applauds]] Because here, in this country, when justice goes against the People's Party or big companies, you ignore it directly. This is something that leads us to a very relevant fact, to a fact that is unthinkable in a developed country - at least that we should think - and it is the corruption of his party, because hundreds of imputed behind his back is the least of his problems. The Bárcenas case should have justified the resignation of this Government as a bloc a long time ago. However, it seems that you are neither coming nor going. Mr Rajoy, the gentleman to whom you said: Luis, be strong, it is not just a rotten apple, it is the basket that is rotten. They do not have one or two, but several seats of the People's Party financed with black money and right now justice is investigating it, but in what way? You're always very lucky with justice. In the face of cases such as those in Bárcenas or Gürtel, you are changed by the judges so that in the end the process will be extended and the citizens will not be able to know the whole truth. So much so that Bárcenas is on vacation right now. Did you hear me, Mr. Rajoy? On vacation. In the end it seems that the research itself deserves one of the Goya awards, because it is incredible what is happening. Do you remember the complaint we filed with Barcenas and the People's Party with the Barcenas case? Do you remember what they said? They said it was an insult to the Spanish people and you, instead of supporting the truth to be known, put a complaint to us, to the United Left. Is that really a way to fight corruption? Then we had a whole story that we know very well, but fortunately the investigation continued and today we have much more data on corruption in the People's Party, but they are always lucky, in the end even the evidence disappears. The computers and hard drives of Bárcenas, which had a lot of information, disappeared, and as for the investigation that was opened to know what happened to that disappearance, it turns out that the evidence has also disappeared a year later. How lucky you are always with justice when you investigate against it, you are always very lucky. In the end, Eduardo Galeano was right: justice is like snakes, it always bites barefoot. One less poetic way of saying it is what the president of the Supreme Court said, when he said that justice, laws were made for robagallins, but the truth is that in a new country this could not be so. It can't be like that. Justice must have sufficient resources to be independent of the oligarchy, of economic power and of course of political power. We know that in our country the main democratic problem is that those who do not run for office are sent to the elections. We know that we need a third pillar of proposals, a comprehensive democratic reform of the State, a more participatory democracy, a democracy that is not just about voting every four years, but about the active presence of the citizen in the field of politics and, of course, prohibiting corrupt companies from re-subscribing contracts with the public administration, plans to close the corrupt faucet that brings public money to private. And all this, Mr Rajoy, Members of the Group of the European People's Party, is at stake right now, a whole social order. It is at stake in people's lives and it has become clear, very clear, clearly clear that your Government is working to destroy social achievements: health, education, public pensions and all kinds of public services, even beyond our borders, because, Mr Rajoy, we are ashamed of your attitude in Europe. We are concerned that he has sided with the German banks and the French banks in front of the Greek people, who are demanding their dignity. Remember that the Greek people, Mr Rajoy, were deceived by the governments of Greek bipartisanism, who tricked the accounts, who falsified the statistics. All this was done by the governments of bipartisanship, whom you know very well, Mr Rajoy, because you went to campaign for them, you went to campaign for the government that had conned the Greek majority, and above all you now dare to teach lessons to a people that has been able to expel them from the institutions. However, instead of redeeming himself, he sided with the mobsters of the European Central Bank, who had blackmailed and blackmailed the Greek people directly. Well, you know one thing I told Mr. Montoro, too. The European Central Bank and private banks are like the scorpion, which always bites the frog. It doesn't matter what you throw at them or Mr De Guindos or any of your government, because in the end in its nature it is destroying the social achievements of all the peoples of Europe. You know that, Mr. Rajoy. The fate of the Greek people is also the destiny of the Spanish people, so it would have been much better if it had defended the interests of the Greek people, who wanted to get rid of the policies that have led to economic suicide. That is why we also need a fourth pillar of proposals, the need to reach a great European agreement. We cannot allow any longer the impositions of the troika, the neoliberal adjustment policies that are sacrificing the majority of the population; not a minority - I said earlier - but a majority of the population. We need a government that's up to date in history and it's clearly not going to be yours. You have preferred to stand on the side of the executioner, on the side of those who blackmail, on the side of those who believe that bank profits are at the same level as people dying of hunger in the streets of Athens. That's what you've done. He has betrayed the Greek people, although, of course, he does not represent them, but he does exactly the same in Spain. [[Applauds]] It must also be borne in mind that the new country we want to build is going to do so from the values and principles of the left, and we are very clear that we are faced with a historic opportunity that we cannot miss. We're going to ask for everything you're stealing from us, we're going to recover the social rights you've earned. Yes, because you're stealing our rights, Mr. Rajoy, health cards, jobs, university fees; you're stealing our opportunity to develop decently. If you want to check, go out on the street and ask how many people can finance a master's degree of 8,000 euros. Ask yourself, an official master's degree; ask yourself out. [[Applauds]] Maybe the children of many of you can do it, but the social majority can't, so don't look at me that way when I tell you that you steal social majority rights, because you're doing it. The only ones who have to fear are the powerful and privileged in this new wave of change. There's a new country that's being built out there. In this new country there are people organizing beyond this procedural view of democracy to vote once every four years. There are people who have been taking the squares for many years. There are people who talk and talk about politics in bars and on the streets. There are people who are clamoring for a change in their government's suicide policy. No tale like this morning is going to fall into most of society, because we want to emancipate ourselves from the kingdom to which you have led us. You have led us to the kingdom of necessity and not to the kingdom of freedom, because in the kingdom of freedom people are free, and that means they have access to housing, employment, food, light and water, but more and more people in this country are deprived of that. Therefore, we continue in the realm of need that you have created. Mr Rajoy, today is my first debate on the state of the nation, but it's probably your last, because we're going to throw you out. Cheers and Republic! [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u46	For the same group, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, today again, you have presented us with a society that exists only in your propaganda manual. He's trying to sell us promises that are just smoke again. He has ignored the corruption that is affecting the People's Party and continues to refuse to recognize Catalonia's right to decide. Mr Rajoy, your balance sheet is that of a Nine Government: neither dignity nor rights nor democracy. Its government has no dignity when, with the Socialist Party, it compensates Castor's owners with 4.7 billion and gives 3.4 billion to electricians for costs of transition to competition, all while refusing to provide solutions to the energy poverty that millions of people suffer. You have no dignity when you abandon the dependents to your fate. His Government had no dignity when it proposed a Montes Act allowing for construction in burned down areas, facilitating urban speculation, as they had done with the Costas Act. His Government had no dignity when Minister De Guindos said that people were no longer afraid of losing their jobs. What country do you live in? Fear not, they panic at the end of their temporary contract, they panic at being fired if with a part-time contract they refuse to work overtime that they won't pay. They are terrified to be fired to be replaced by self-employed or fellows, thanks to the labor reform, with wages of misery, as is happening today in the media of this country. They are afraid for their personal and family life, because the labor reform allows companies to impose constant changes in the day and hours, as happens to the workers of Carrefour. Mr Rajoy, the day you really want to do family policy repeals Article 41 of your labour reform and allows people to have a personal life and not just trade more of the businesses, because that is what has caused your labour reform. What is happening right now in our country is not only a consequence of the crisis or a biblical curse, it has much to do with the consequences of a labour reform of the People's Party and Convergence i Union that leads us to a society with poor workers, unemployed without benefits and in which precariousness has the face of a woman with a part-time contract and increasingly with wage inequality. That is the reality of this society, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] You have no dignity or shame when, after these anti-social policies and the suffering you are causing, you come here today and thank the citizens for the effort, as if that effort had been voluntary and you had not imposed it on them with your absolutist majority. There is no dignity in a Government whose president is also a party that has been and continues to be a necessary collaborator of systemic corruption. That is why you may have spent as much time today talking about corruption as you have spent time fighting it from the government: two minutes. You can't fight corruption, you don't have moral authority, because you're the head of the family, and so it's impossible... [[Rumors and Protests]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u48	Mr Coscubiela, you have made a hard speech, which is yours, but use other terms, because the term capo in this country has a meaning that neither the President of the Government nor any member of this House deserves. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u49	I see that Mrs. Villalobos, Vice President of this Congress, has well interpreted what she meant; yes, you are the president of a party...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u50	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u51	Can't you say?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u52	No, no, You can say words that do not offend anyone personally, and the Spanish Language Dictionary has many meanings so that you do not have to offend either Mr Rajoy or any member of this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u53	You're the president of a party eaten by corruption. Is it true or not? [[Protests.-Applause.]] The whole country knows. Your government has no dignity or respect for rights, denies unemployment benefits to 2 million unemployed people, while you have saved between 2013 and 2014 EUR 10 billion in unemployment benefits, and comes here and tells us that you have saved the rights of the unemployed. Can you be more ashamed? Impossible. You have defended during this legislature the interests of the mortgage market vis-à-vis the right of families to dispose of housing, and have denied up to ten different occasions - the first was proposed by this group and this server in February 2012 - the right to a second chance for indebted persons. Now, after three years in which 146 families have been evicted in their homes every day, we are presented with another promise, which I fear is going to be smoke again, as Mr De Guindos' code of good practice. One question, Mr Rajoy: is your protest going to include mortgage debtors with retroactive effect, as required by the PAH, or is it going to be another deception that you have us used to? His Government, Mr Rajoy, practiced permanent deception; with one hand they promised tax tips, while with the other they shared and cut social rights and benefits. Citizens, whose health, education and quality of life depend on public policies, do not need fiscal guilds or charity from their Government, which they need to be guaranteed access to basic rights. The serious thing about this situation is that the PP has taken advantage of this crisis in an opportunistic way to impose a society with more inequality and more precariousness. Your reforms, Mr Rajoy, are not socially innocuous, your reforms have winners - the capitalism of friends - and losers - the workers -, and to impose your policies you want a silent or silent society. That is why they intimidate you with the law of gag and the Penal Code, to prevent you from exercising the right to protest or strike; a society to which you hinder access to justice with unfair judicial fees that make justice even more classist. Mr Rajoy, today you have taken pride in the international recognition of Spain and you have forgotten that in a few weeks your Government has received the reprobation of the Council of Europe for violating up to seven different aspects of the European Social Charter, or that a few days ago you have received the reprobation of the United Nations human rights rapporteurs concerned about the restriction of freedoms in Spain. This is the international recognition that this country unfortunately receives from its Government. In 2014 you have repeatedly denied the right to decide on the citizens of Catalonia, and have done so within the framework of decentralizing policies, while failing to comply with the Lofca, which require a review of funding from January 2014. Not only do you not have dignity and not only do you not respect rights, but you also violate democracy. We have made hundreds of proposals during this parliamentary term which you with your majority have rejected, and today we will remind you of some. In order to regain dignity, we propose a social rescue plan that guarantees basic rights and goods; we propose that the millions given to electricians should recover to guarantee access to basic goods, such as light or water, to those who suffer from energy poverty; we propose that we repeal the labour reform with fifty proposals that we have made to ensure that employment is decent and that you stop punishing the recipients of the interprofessional minimum wage, which is among the lowest in Europe. The dignity of the unemployed, Mr Rajoy, requires that your Government stop blaming them for being unemployed and that you return to them, once and for all, the unemployment benefits they had in June 2012. The dignity of people at risk of social exclusion is called guaranteed minimum income of citizenship that avoids the situation of poverty. And financing these policies takes resources, that's right. We offer you two things. First, that you avoid the debt suffocating us and, second, that Spain ceases to have a cadaveric tax system. That is why we are proposing a European conference that addresses the agreed restructuring of debt and gives hope to young generations in southern Europe. Having more tax resources requires you to stop acting in connivance with circumvention, fraud and tax evasion. It is urgent to put an end to the tax havens that act as shrines of all kinds of capital and that are the cemeteries of the social state. You, who so much like to talk about the nation and the homeland, we remind you that there is no homeland without dignity, rights and democracy. Ours, Mr Rajoy, is the homeland of rights, the homeland of our brothers, whether Catalan, Spanish or Greek. Yours, just as you speak Spanish or Catalan, is the homeland of your tax sanctuaries, whether in Switzerland or Andorra. That is the harsh reality of this country. [[Applauds]] Restoring dignity and rights requires defending democracy in all areas, providing justice with resources, restoring dignity. It requires recognition of the right of the citizens of Catalonia to decide our future as part of a constituent process that strengthens the participatory democracy of citizens and not of customers. I'm done. Mr Rajoy, you and your Government, in the opinion of a large part of this country's citizenship, are incompatible with a society with dignity, rights and democracy. The time has come for citizens with their votes to end the inequality, the rottenness of corruption and the abuse of power with which you act. I can assure you that Initiative per Catalunya Verds-Esquerra Unita i Alternativa, within the framework of La Izquierda Plural, we will do everything in our power to converge with the majority of society in this goal of building a society with dignity, rights and democracy, which means, with you outside this government. Thank you, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u54	Mr. President of the Government. [[Pause]] Are you going to intervene? [[Rumors]] Mr. Centella, please. Mr. Rajoy. [[Pause.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Garzón, Mr Coscubiela, I would like to begin by commenting on two comments you have made, because you have both made them. First, down to reality. As I understand it, and I think that we have understood it by the vast majority of Members of this House and those who are following this debate, in reality there are only you. The rest of us aren't in reality. We've never been. We don't know what's going on in Spain. We haven't been to a coffee shop - today there's been talk here about coffee shops - and we're always locked up where we don't know. Be completely and absolutely certain that it is not among my fun to be locked up anywhere. But, in case you don't know me well enough, I will tell you that I was born in Santiago de Compostela, which is a city that is in reality, which is in our country that is Spain. Then I was, because my father was an official, in Piedrahita, which is a village of Avila; then I was in Carballino, in Orense; then I was in Oviedo; and then I was in León and I went to live in Pontevedra. I studied. Like you, I was lucky enough to study. You have studied in a public school, I studied in private school and in public. In public I studied at the Sánchez Canton Institute in Pontevedra. I didn't have a scholarship, unlike you, and not because my father didn't have to pay for four people's studies. You were lucky; I was less, but in the end we've both studied and we're here giving the battle to try to make our country a little better. [[Applauds]] Then I had to do military service, because at that time it was obligatory; and then I was fourteen months, and not as an ensign or a sergeant, but as a soldier in Valencia. Then, I ran for election at the age of twenty-six. They were the first elections to the Galician Parliament and I visited Galicia on numerous occasions. Then I introduced myself to the councilman of my village - as you surely did - and we won. [[Mr. Spiny Garzón Makes Negative Signs]] Well, if you haven't introduced yourself to councilman, then you lose a lot of experience for the future. [[Rumors.-Laughter.-Applause.]] I ran for election to the Galician Parliament. I was part of the first Parliament in Galicia's history, and believe me that it was very comforting to me. I was, moreover, Santiagués and Parliament was at that time - borrowed, since it was the Archbishop who lent it to Parliament - at the Palais de Gelmírez in Santiago, a place to which I invite you when you consider it appropriate and convenient. I have devoted my entire life to politics, like some of those who are here. I've been right a few times. In your opinion, none, but there are those who believe that I have been right sometimes and, therefore, some votes we have had and have been able to govern; naturally, without any correctness in your opinion, but it is that there are people who stand in the way of bringing the opposite to you; what are we going to do to you! [[Applauds]] Mr. Garzón, with all the affection I am able to spare you, I cannot accept that you say that you are in reality more than I am. I just can't accept it. What I can't help is that I say it, but I'm sure you'll recognize my right to say that I disagree with you, or I hope so. [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is another matter that I cannot agree with, and I regret it very much. [[The Lord]] You do not have the patrimony of social policies or the patrimony of feelings. But what do you think, that others don't have in our pension families, that the parents of many of those who sit here or grandparents can't be pensioners or can't have a widow's pension or can't have an orphan's pension? What do you think? Who do you think is sitting here? You think you're not going to public health? I'm going to public health. And don't you think that many of the children of all the people who sit here study? Yeah. And don't they think they can't think that people have the right to public pensions, and that they can't think and work to make public health ever better, and that they can't think and work to make education ever better? Hasn't it occurred to you that you are not the only ones in the history of the world who have feelings and can do social politics? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Ladies and gentlemen, those who sit in these seats, such as those who sit in the seats of the other political forces, will have their good things and their bad things, like everyone else. Fortunately, no one is perfect except you; but it is that you are very little and, therefore, reassures that the percentage of perfects in Spain is not too high. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from there whatever you want; I lack rigour, I lack shame, I do not know the subjects, I am at the command of all those gentlemen who you say... Too bad they don't think like me, but what are we gonna do to him? [[Laughter]] I have not lowered the wages of the workers in Spain because the agreement was signed by the Workers' Commissions - do you know it? Don't you know him? [[Mr. Sanz Remón makes negative signs]] Then I say nothing - UGT and business organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not in reality, but it is my duty to say some things that have happened in Spain on the last few days. I'm probably not right, I'm sure I don't have it or you're never gonna give it to me. Nor do I expect you to have any concern in that regard. But in the last few days some things have happened that are positive. Maybe it's by chance, but what does it matter! They've passed and that's good for the country. [[Applauds]] The economy grew in the last quarter 0.7%, more than anyone else in Europe, despite the government, but it has passed and we were there. GDP last year grew by 1.4%; for the first time it began to generate employment in Spain, and prices had fallen as they had never experienced in many years. Retail sales and sales of large companies have risen as never in recent years, such as tourism registrations, home sales and people's confidence. If you read the data collected by the consumer confidence index, you will see that we are in the best data since 2005. Maybe I've manipulated the polls, but I beg you to believe me, I haven't. You should take those things into account. The sale of housing has increased, unemployment in the construction sector is falling. Much remains to be done, but I also encourage you to make a thoughtful judgment of what is happening in your real country. It's just that you can't walk like this for life, let alone with all due respect. I understand that Mr. Garzón hasn't been here long, but Mr. Coscubiela should have a certain... [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Anyway, no offense. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also talked about prices for essential goods and services. An effort has been made in the light. There was a tariff deficit of EUR 26 billion. So I am a protector of big companies, I am not, the Spanish government with the support of its president, decided that instead of raising the light rate by 42% as some wanted, the cost, that tariff deficit will be paid by the big companies of IBEX, the photovoltaics, which often remind us in the newspaper, and others. I don't know if you know, but it would be good if you were aware that these things happen sometimes too. In the years 2013 and 2014 it has dropped modestly - I would already like it to lower more - the price of light, but it is that in the last eight years the average rise was 6.9%. Domestic consumers have been protected through the reform of the voluntary price for the small consumer, and consumers who are in a situation of greater vulnerability have been protected. Families with all their members in unemployment, pensioners or large families have a 25% discount on the bill, the social bonus... Honestly, I don't think it's serious to come here in 2015 to say that there are millions of Spaniards who can't watch TV because they can't turn on the light, because that's fake. Those things can't be said, you have to be a little more thoughtful in the trials. We have also made an effort with butane candy, whose price will remain frozen. We have taken steps to promote competition in the fuel sector to contain the price of petrol and oil. The law on deindexation will soon be adopted, which helps to contain the price in essential services and helps to maintain purchasing power in citizens. I'll tell you what. Think about it, take the place of the People's Parliamentary Group. Do you believe that the People's Parliamentary Group wants light, butane, fuels and all prices up? No man! He doesn't want to. What happens is that decisions are made, priority is given and what can be done at every moment. Now we've been able to get the price of light down, let's try to get it down more in the future. Do you think that you are the only ones who have the heritage of wanting to lower the price of light? And all of us here, what's going on, that we're excited that the price of light goes up? Please, they should recognize us even if only we also have good wishes, which is also not so difficult to recognize. [[Applauds]] Public rights and freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have a lot of problems in Spain, I believe and we all know that, but public rights and freedoms do not seem to be. I believe that we have an advanced democracy as few in the world, with a system of rights and freedoms of the highest order, and in this I believe that any normal person agrees. What the Government does is to ensure and ensure that we can all exercise our rights with full guarantees, that is, when it is intended to improve citizen security, when it is intended to improve the work of the State Security Forces and the action of justice, what is sought is to guarantee the rights of all citizens. I understand that ideology must be seen in everything, but I recommend that you do not pretend to see ideology in everything. There are those who see in all attacks, cuts, misfortunes, and if the argument that recovery is not there no longer works, the argument of inequality is used, and if you do not walk public freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken about the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security and what it is about is to better protect the free exercise of the most fundamental rights. This is not a law to prevent the right of demonstration, which is neither amended nor limited. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain, the right to demonstrate is exercised in a normal, peaceful and massive manner. Over 90,000 demonstrations have been held in Spain during the three years of the legislature, which is certainly a remarkable figure - I was amazed when I was told - but what is at stake is to protect those legitimate demonstrators from the vandalism of a minority and, of course, to ensure the normal functioning of democratic institutions. That's some pure common sense. I understand that you do not agree, but there is a large majority in Spain that does agree that the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are guaranteed. Therefore, we will maintain our position on this issue. I would not like to close this speech without talking about Greece, because I have heard truly remarkable things when talking about Greece. I actually went to support candidate Samaras, but this is normal, as you know. The Socialist Party has held a meeting here last Saturday at which different leaders of the Socialist Party from other European countries came, it is normal; meet before the councils, as we do, and you will meet with the group you have there, where you are and other Spanish and other political forces from other countries. It's normal. When we have elections, I also ask my colleagues to come here to defend my party's positions. I went, therefore, to defend some positions in which I believed. I believe that in Greece, in recent times, progress has been made; they are still far from where they have to go, but a serious policy has begun and above all the objectives, which was economic growth and employment, have been clearly marked. In Greece growth began and forecasts were not bad for the coming times. That is a very positive fact, after all the difficulties that occurred there. I defended a position there that I'm going to explain to you. Firstly, that it was not in favour of Spain's debt being removed. That position was defended by everyone. You could probably say no, that Spain forgives the debt, 26 billion euros. You could say that, yes, you can say that, and if you don't want to say it, don't say it. I said no. We have disbursed 7 billion euros and of that 7 billion euros you start paying your principal in thirty years. Next, the MEDE, which is the great European body where we have endorsed 18 billion, has also lent it more than 15 billion, and they start paying the main and interest interest within 30 years. Greece currently pays 2 % of its GDP of interest on debt, less than Spain, less than Italy, less than Ireland, less than Portugal and less than most European Union countries. The problem is therefore growth and employment, and I believe that with policies of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and doing things right and seriously, it is those that ultimately lead countries to growth and employment. That was the first thing I defended, and I explain it here because I think it's very reasonable. Secondly, I defended something as reasonable, at least in my opinion, as fulfilling the commitments agreed by the countries. It is that in Europe we are 28, and if every time there is an election in a country of Europe and wins a different one from what was the commitments made by the previous one are not worth, it cannot be governed. When we arrived at the Government there were commitments accepted by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's Government, which we naturally accepted, whether we liked it or not. Then we were able to negotiate some things, as I explained this morning, such as the level of government deficit, because it was impossible to go down from 9 to 4.4 in a year being in recession. That is my position on the subject of Greece. I also said in Greece that what was known to be unfulfilled should not be promised, because it is very dangerous. Just as I said before that this Parliament has no competence for what things, nor the Greek, none of the other countries of the European Union have competence for what things. That's my position. We have today supported the approach taken by the Greek Government, and that approach is because there is still the programme that had to be monitored by the European Central Bank, the Commission and the International Monetary Fund, they continue to have to fulfil their commitments and there is the flexibility that there can be, as there could have been before and as is the case with any country in the European Union. This is a position of pure common sense, it is an absolutely institutional position that has nothing to do with party problems, which is what it seems to me that other political forces are playing, although in some it is no longer known who is who and not even where they are. As far as labour reform is concerned, I understand that you think differently, I understand it and I respect it, but I believe that it is one of the most important reforms that have been made in our country and that have contributed most to a change and a reversal of the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my opinion on much of the issues that you have raised. There are others, but it is very difficult to answer them, because really more than arguments, reasons or questions, are slogans, and obviously arguing for or against a slogan is certainly something complex. I prefer to do it differently. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is, Mr. Rajoy, you didn't know your biography. I thank him; what happens is that he has not reached the most interesting part, which is when he met Bárcenas. [[Rumors]] That did interest me a lot more, and you didn't get there. [[Applauds]] Also know, Mr Rajoy, that it is not a matter of feelings - if I am convinced that you are a nice person; it does not seem to me that you have grace, but it is nice -, it is a matter of what you do, and you what you do becomes laws, and the laws have prejudices in the majority of the population. That's what we brought him to talk about. We're very different from you. The first thing we did when we arrived here, for example, was to give up our private pension plan, which was in charge of BBVA and was paid in Congress. We showed a small gesture, a small ethical gesture, but that forced Congress to withdraw the private pension plan from all the deputies and all the deputies who are here. We're different. Not that we're in another world, we're in the same world, but that world is divided. Have you tried to see reality above the table and below the table? It looks different, it's the approach that's important. Of course, you have on average very different material living conditions than ours and those of the majority of the population. It's that, not feelings, not opinions, which interests us. To do politics with rigour, we discuss facts, not words, because words can be carried by the wind and are also the instrument of demagogy. But we bring laws, we bring their results. Mr Rajoy, I am from Andalusia, and there United Left contributed to a law against evictions, a law that paralyzed evictions in Andalusia do you know until what time? Until his Government appealed the law to the Constitutional Court and thus continued to lead to evictions. [[Rumors]] You argued in a report that jeopardized bank profits. Did it not endanger the lives of those who lost their homes? Don't you remember that? It was you. [[A Member of the European Parliament: The EREs]] They're yelling at me now: the EREs. Well, let's talk about the ERW, Mr. Rajoy, no problem, let's talk about the ERW. We opened a commission of inquiry in Andalusia that the PSOE did not want. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] No, no, we've already opened it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u58	Excuse me, Mr. Garzón. I pray silently. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u59	They don't know the result anyway. It came to an opinion written by the United Left that politically held people of the Socialist Party responsible, which later the trials have determined that this was the case. But what happened? That the People's Party and the Socialist Party voted against, the two of them together. [[Applauds]] That's what they did. Do you want to keep talking about Andalusia? On the day that Susana Díaz broke the pact in Andalusia, she arranged with the People's Party to distribute armchairs in the Chamber of Auditors to shield herself. [[Applauds]] That's bipartisanship and that's Andalusia, too. Right now in the Community of Madrid, where you govern, there are 6,000 minors excluded from the health card; today immigrants, simply because they do not have papers, cannot go to a head doctor, and when they arrive with a tumor in their throats, with a lump, they throw them back because they are not urgent and when they return it will be too late. Those are his cuts, those are his laws. Remember it too and don't talk about feelings. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rajoy, I don't think you're wrong all the time. In fact, Mr Montoro is here and knows that in many parliamentary debates I have given him the reason, even in partial respects, because we too are different from you in that, we recognize the truth wherever you are and when you have raised direct taxes we have recognized that it is better because you are more fair than the indirect taxes you have always wanted to raise. We have recognized those aspects, but what we will never admit is the tax amnesty, the tax reform to lower taxes to the richest and of course we will not allow you to be accomplices of the evaders, such as the Botín family, or all members of the Falciani list, who also knew, yes, PSOE and you. [[Rumors]] They knew the list, they did not make it public, and justice is now investigating, even from the other Government. Mr. Rajoy, you've made some comments about the law gag. He did not seem to agree with the United Nations, which had ruled that it violated human rights. Do you know what the Penal Code does that you have just passed with the Socialist Party? For if a bank is occupied right now to protest an eviction, they are three to six months in prison, and if they leave collectively, six to nine months in prison. These are also the consequences of the Criminal Code. There is no jihadism there, there is peaceful resistance of the population mobilizing. We are fed up with people who call themselves patriots, who wrap themselves around the flag - any flag - but then do not defend the interests of the majority of the population. The People's Party also reformed article 135 of the Constitution to serve Merkel and major international finance. This Government also refuses to pay or, let us say it in a better way, to confront, as other countries have done, multinational pharmaceutical companies in order to be able to pay for the drugs of hepatitis C patients. Other countries have, not you. By the way, Mr Rajoy, since we are talking about patriotism, you have been forgotten - and I have asked you several times - Endesa, what does the Endesa scandal look like. Nor has he answered me and I hope that in this new attempt he will do so; Mr De Guindos, who has just left, did not answer me either. This Government has not said a single word of Endesa, of EUR 14 billion distributed among private owners instead of being public, of all and of all; with that tool, it could tackle the social emergency that exists. You're not just not liberals, it's that you're from amigo capitalism. You, when you privatize hospitals - where you have, you wanted to sell them to companies ultimately related to customer networks, even family members. That's the reality, and whenever we want to discuss it and get all the data out of the hemerotheques. It is not precisely the United Left that has done all that; you have been the People's Party, where you have ruled. I'm done with Greece. You have been forgotten in all your speech that the Government of Spain lent 18 billion euros in a very particular way, because it was not a loan, it was a guarantee to speculators; a guarantee to speculators, to international investors to speculate with Greece. And you know what the consequence was? That if they win, they win private investors, and if we lose, we all lose, which is their policy: socializing losses and privatizing profits. You are not patriots; if you were patriots you would defend the Spanish people, not their friends. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, I agree with you that this is not a matter of feeling. God frees me from judging anyone's feelings; it goes from interests and politics, and that is what we have done: legitimately disqualify their policies, which have concrete interests behind them. True, you have had some successes, it is true, for example in your hidden agenda of labor reform, which you did not explain. Which one? The widespread reduction of wages, not in a cyclical but structural way, and for that it had to weaken collective bargaining, in order to weaken the strength of trade unions and workers. That is a success of their labour reform. Your labour reform, Mr Rajoy, has increased the precariousness in this country, existed before but has increased it. Temporality has not been reduced and you have already recognized it, it is 25%. But new forms of precariousness have emerged, for example, the part-time contract, which is already 16% of all workers, the vast majority of them bound to that contract, the majority of them women, because you want them to work in that way in order to be able to carry out their domestic tasks. Seventeen hours on average, part-time contracts. The jobs that are created today, Mr Rajoy, have 20% less wages than those that are destroyed by their labour reform, and that is another reality. With you, the person who, working, has income below the poverty line is becoming more widespread in Spain. Mr Rajoy, you have frozen the interprofessional minimum wage and the indicator of the Iprem, which regulates social benefits. That's not the responsibility of the social partners, that's what you've done. Mr. Rajoy, I hope your advisors have a good time with the data. The average unemployment benefit fell from EUR 928 per month in January 2013 to 802 in December 2014, almost 14% less than the average unemployment benefit. That is also the responsibility of your policy. After three electrical reforms by Mr Soria the electric tariff rose, according to the INE, by 4.4% during 2014 and the first data from 2015 go on the same path because you, even if you deny it, are at the service of that electric oligopoly that is untouchable. Mr Rajoy, which of the data I have cited so far do not correspond to reality? Are those disqualifications or are they concrete data? Unfortunately, it's the reality, which you say you don't know because you're going to walk the street, but you certainly don't walk the Carrefour workstations, the Coca-Cola workstations, or many other workstations in this country. [[Applauds]] And if you step on them, it's to trample straight. Explain, Mr. Rajoy, please, I asked you a question and you don't answer me. What's gonna happen to your promise of second chance law? Are mortgage debtors going to gain access with retroactive effect yes or no? Look, the question is simple. By the way, Mr Rajoy, who is going to pay this quota exemption that you promised today to the first 500 euros of salary? Because a tax exemption is not a tax bonus, it's less income for Social Security. And I remind you that in 2013 you forced a reduction in pensions and a freeze for many years on the excuse that there would not be enough income in the future and now empty the Social Security coffers with policies that will not create jobs. I told you...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u62	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u63	I'm done. I told Mrs Báñez, Minister for Employment, in the debate on labour reform: job and recruitment subsidies do not create jobs, they water the desert. By the way, Mr Rajoy, as you always put the opinion of the unions in your mouth, I have just read a statement that you have made that says: Rajoy launches an electoral campaign and ignores that the crisis and policies of his party continue to threaten the lives of millions of people. That's what the unions think, not what you think. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u64	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u65	Mr. Garzón, I'm not going to discuss your claim that I'm a nice person, I'm not going to discuss it. Man, I could question your claim about grace yes or no grace, but neither does it seem to me that it is a fundamental debate or that it serves us to fix many problems. What I would like to say is that I did not like that statement that the world is divided. Above all I did not like what has been translucent from your intervention, which seems to be betting that it is increasingly divided. I will always be the union policies, in any kind of union policies. I spoke this morning about territorial cohesion and social cohesion, and those are principles that have always inspired my action in public life and will continue to do so in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that it lowers taxes to the richest, it has been exactly the opposite, and it is simply enough to see the reform of the personal income tax that came into force on 1 January. I do not agree with your statement on Article 135 of the Constitution, it makes no sense to have an insurmountable deficit because then we have to go to the markets and we have seen when there is too much deficit how the markets react; there are some countries in the European Union that have not been able to go to the markets and now what is happening to them is happening to them. That has also happened to some autonomous communities in our country and that is why we had to implement the FLA and the supplier plan. I believe that the decision taken by this House in the previous parliamentary term to reform the Constitution in particular in its article 135 has been very positive for the defence of the general interests of our country. Nor do I agree with what you have said about the MEDE and the endorsements. Spain has made a bilateral loan to Greece, which it has already disbursed, amounting to some EUR 7 billion. That's a loan. In addition, the MEDE, which is a European body, has made a much larger loan to Greece. If Greece does not pay that loan which is almost equivalent to its GDP - it is as if it had lent us EUR 90 billion, see what problem - then we have to pay it by the national states because that is the solidarity of the whole of the European Union. Therefore, I do not know that the speculators and all those gentlemen I certainly do not know are painted here. Things work out, believe me, I'm telling you the truth, as I just pointed out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u67	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Mr Rajoy, I want to start by telling you that I am a privileged person today. A citizen, who said his name was Roberto, told me this morning: many Spaniards would pay to tell Mr Rajoy what we think. Yes, I am privileged, because thanks to the votes of 1,140,242 Spanish citizens I can tell you on your behalf and, by the way, I will tell you. Mr Rajoy, you have a problem today to address the nation. He has a problem, because first we discover his complicity with the corrupt plot: Louis, I understand. Be strong. I'll call you tomorrow. A hug. 20 January 2013. Then we discovered their lies: I am already telling you that in the People's Party there has not been a double accounting or a concealment of any crime. August 2013. Yes, Mr Rajoy, your lies, because Judge Ruz, the state attorney and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office have already proved months ago the existence of a parallel accounting, a B-box in the People's Party, an accounting intended, according to the self - open quotes - to pay expenses generated in election campaigns, payment of salary supplements to certain people linked to the People's Party, payment of various services and expenses for the benefit of the People's Party - closing quotes -. Mr Rajoy, you should have left that blue bank the same day the judge proved that your party was financed with black money, but you have proven to be far below the ethical requirements and come here today to try to cover up your shames with figures and suffamas, but, Mr Rajoy, the real Spain, which you are seeing, is no longer being fooled by you. I will tell you about that Spain of ours, of that Spain of normal men and women who do extraordinary things, which demand and deserve decency and truth. I'll tell you about the people, not the numbers. I'll tell you about your lies, yours. The millions of citizens who have been expelled from the system as a result of their policies are outraged when you corrupt the meaning of words and talk to them, for example, about recovery. What recovery has come to the 3 million unemployed who are not covered? What recovery has been achieved to 12% of employed Spaniards living in poverty? What recovery has come to the swindlers by the prefernts, to whom, by the way, your Government leaves behind? Another citizen, who says his name is Javier, has sent me a question on my Facebook page. Ask Mr. Rajoy if he's invested his savings in preference. Mr. Rajoy, have you invested your savings in preference? And if you had, do you know, Mr. Rajoy, who would have defended you? Mr Rajoy, the macro figures you have presented this morning and throughout this afternoon have mud feet. The debt has grown more than in any European country, almost one hundred per cent, bringing a huge burden, a heavy burden to the next generations; industrial activity is getting cold; wage costs are frozen and/or under zero and the purchasing power of the Spaniards continues to be eroded. However, you allow yourself to boast, for example, that Spanish consumption is up by 2 %, after having fallen by 7 % in the last three years. Having fallen in three years by 7%, rising by a shy 2%, do you think that the Spaniards consume more or consume more the Spaniards? And what about the job recovery. Despite the precariousness, in January 2015 there are 650,000 members less in Social Security than when you came to the government, and in three years you have consumed 38% of the Reserve Fund. At this rate, if you continue like this and if you continue in the government - the Spaniards do not want it - in three years you would exhaust the bottom and, as you like, whoever comes after you pull. Mr Rajoy, politics, although at some point in this afternoon's debate, which is particularly important for you, does not seem to be so, is to provide solutions, and that is why I am not going to discuss figures with you. I'm going to give you some, but I'm not going to argue about figures. As you know, politics is a Greek word that means relative to citizens. I remind you of this because today we have talked a lot about Greece in this debate and because of the obstacles you have put to the agreement with Greece, forgetting for sure the obstacles that other countries put when Europe had to help rescue Spain. I'm stopping. Yes, Mr Rajoy - I will tell you again - Spain has been rescued by Europe. It has been a complete rescue, with conditions, in charge of the debt, which we have to return with interest. Meet all the requirements of a rescue; yes, a res-ca-te. Financial, but ransom. Accept it. You must be the only Spaniard who hasn't heard or just want to lie to us on that issue too. Let us demand - you have made yourself demanding, I insist - the Greek Government to comply with its commitments - it would miss more! - but let me demand that you be equally implacable to recover the money that the Spaniards had to put in order to rescue Bankia and other entities sunk by your chieftains, those of you. Be equally relentless to pursue fraud and corruption, which costs more than 118 billion euros to the Spanish. That has created, Mr Rajoy, poverty in our country and that is why you and your party, alone or in the company of others, are directly responsible. By the way, with regard to corruption and corruption in language, there has been another person, this one is called Mary, who has made a reference to what it means to corrupt language. You have heard you speak this morning about the asset recovery office and sent me a message saying to me: Woe to see!, you have to have face to announce the same day that the FROB makes use of bail from Bankia, a bail that has been fixed by Judge Andreu precisely so that they can recover what they have stolen, that they open an asset recovery office. People follow him and he realizes these things. Paul Valéry said that there are those who turn politics into the art of preventing people from dealing with what concerns them. What is it about people? The Spaniards, who are the ones who are in charge, according to article 10 of our Constitution, are concerned with two things: treatment and treatment. I'll explain. Treatment would be all that the politician can do from the institutions of power, which he carries out to improve the quality of life of citizens or to make it worse. Let's say that's what we could call, Mr. Rajoy, the technical part. In medicine it would be equivalent to administering an antibiotic instead of another, leaving the patient sedated or giving an order to start resuscitation. In politics, Mr Rajoy, it's not very different. In politics - you said that it is about choosing, setting priorities - the politician wonders: Do I raise the tax X in order to be able to give the Spaniards better services? Do I sign the Y deal to export arms to a country of dubious reputation, but with which I will prevent many workers from staying on the street? That's the treatment. The deal, however, Mr Rajoy, is the human part. Returning to the simile of the hospital, to understand me, the treatment is the smile of the nurse who comes to change the bottle of serum, the visit of the doctor when he approaches the patient and informs him in person how his disease evolves and how he intends to cure him. Dealing with politics, Mr Rajoy, is honesty to tell people or the patient, with plain and intelligible words, what happens and what needs to be done to heal. The patient, like the citizen, apologizes for human errors in treatment, but does not forgive lies or mistreatment. Therefore, demands in hospitals - the policy is not very different - occur almost always when, when the error is detected, the doctor does not want to recognize it, avoids its responsibility and sometimes even gets pimped with the patient. I'll explain this to you, Mr. Rajoy, so you know why you're going to lose the election. He is going to lose the elections because of what Mr Zapatero lost in 2011: for lying to the Spaniards. It will be mainly because of that, but not only because of that; it will also lose them because it lives behind the back of the country. I will explain this to you in a different way from what my colleagues have explained to you before. You were the one who proclaimed not too long ago and without blushing that you wanted to live in Spain by Jaume Matas, because you wanted all Spain to be the same. The Spain of Jaume Matas, that is his country model. However, even if you have forgotten, the Spaniards are much better than you think and do not want to live in Spain by Jaume Matas. There is a Spain that repudiates lies and mediocrity. In that Spain, which is Spain of the majority, your heroes - yours - we put them in jail for corruption. Spain is a country very far away from those little characters that you like. We have the greatest novelist in the world, the greatest poet, the best football team, the greatest painter and the best tennis player. I tell you that you live in a country with exceptional talent, a country whose language is the second most spoken in the world, whose music is known from Japan to Tierra de Fuego. Yes, you live in an extraordinary country. The Spanish mark, Mr Rajoy, is not the gross domestic product or the risk premium. The Spanish brand, that for which we are known and respected throughout the world, is talent and creativity; and you are throwing them off the edge, you are shredding free and creative thinking. Yes, because you are the ones who put the VAT on cinema and theatre at 21% and the VAT on porn at 4%. By the way, this morning you didn't say a word of culture, which, knowing what you think and what you do, is perhaps the best thing you could do. You should know that the Spaniards who are out there face each day with dignity the consequences of their disdain and their lies. They are the ones who make our nation great. They make it great by protecting their own; by caring for their elders, their children and their youth; by surviving cuts in education, health and social protection. You insist on convincing us that everything you are doing is not to favor your friends, that your people - your bank - would also like to do other things and that they do not do what they do to relocate thanks to the revolving doors. When you get out of here we could admit that while you were here you chose the easy path, the one of the cuts and the one of obedience, but I ask you a favor, Mr. Rajoy: do not tell us again that they had no choice but to do what you have done. We do not lack respect; not to us but to all the Spaniards to whom you speak. Don't take us for fools. I don't know if you know the story of that mason who had fractured his two arms falling off a scaffold and went to the hospital to be cured. After a few weeks the sheath was removed and the mason saw that his elbows were soldiers on his shoulder. The mason said: Doctor, but what is this? And the doctor replied: Don't worry, man; the important thing is that the bone has soldered. Just so you want to close this crisis, a crisis that has healed backwards, like the arms of the mason. The Spaniards are poorer than before and you and your friends from the revolving door are richer than before, richer than ever. [[A Member of Parliament: That will be you.]] Like the bad mason's elbows soldiers, with the crisis most Spaniards are poorer, but they are richer you and your friends. You, committed to corrupting the meaning of words, have decided - among other things - to thank us, not only those who are here but all the Spaniards. As if we had arrived at this situation voluntarily and not at the blow of the Official State Gazette! As I said before, people are very smart, the Spaniards are smart, they have judgment, they have imagination and they look at what we say, what you say. Another Spaniard who says he is Eduardo wrote to me about corrupting the language, the meaning of the words, and he said to me textually: what - a word - is this about irregular behaviors that Mr Rajoy says when he refers to corruption? What's this about irregular behavior? Stealing is stealing, man!, stealing is stealing and point. [[Applauds]] Do you think, Mr Rajoy, that those Spaniards who are going to leave behind a country with 30% of its inhabitants at risk of poverty, with 25% unemployment, a country full of black cards and mass scams to pensioners will understand that you are going - in addition to some sort of squatting - and thank them as if they had done it for pleasure? By the way, about the black cards. A lady who says her name is Maria Yes, there are people who have an interest in this debate, they are Spanish citizens who would like to ask questions and I want to put them to you on her behalf, if you don't mind and you don't laugh. This lady, who claims to be from San Blas and to be eighty-two years old, makes the following reflection for me to move to you. I imagine that gentleman - he refers to those of the black cards - who bought underwear with the black cards will have cost him a dough. I wear one-euro underwear because I can't spend money on good clothes, which I'd like. With all the money Rajoy put in Bankia because it was ruined, why do I get my money from the prefernts and not get it? They say we understood a lot to take it away from us, but they now say they didn't know what black cards were for. Gentlemen with a career, because after all I am an illiterate, I only know the four rules. Ladies and gentlemen, although you have wanted to turn this House into a theatre where prepotence is law and lies come out for free, this is the home of national sovereignty, and each one of us here represents - by doing the average - 132,880 Spaniards; we got more expensive the seat, we cost 228,048, but in the average each one of us represents - by the way, we do represent all Spaniards - 132,880 Spaniards. That is why our group takes this debate very seriously and seems to us to be a very important debate. I would now like to speak from this rostrum about what I consider to be good and bad news about what the state of the nation is, in addition to what I have already told you. Finding out is not too bad either, Mr. Rajoy, but the bad news is that the treatment you have used, Dr. Rajoy, to heal the Spaniards is not even a safe placebo but has proven very harmful to the vast majority. You tell us now that if we want to heal completely we have to finish the antibiotic box; that's what you say with more cuts, more sacrifices, more inequality, more bleeding, etc. But, Mr Rajoy, the Spaniards are very familiar with antibiotics and the older people and the one who likes the study is even familiar with the leeches - those who suck blood, you understand me - and we know that antibiotics start to work from day one. In other words, if austerity had healed, Mr Rajoy, we would have already realized, we would have known. You've been giving us your antibiotics for thirty-six months, and the Spanish literally die of hunger and cold. Yeah, literally. Food banks in 2014 have served 1,640,000 people; Mr. Rajoy, it is unheard of that with the amount of taxes you pay you have to go to private solidarity, to so many NGOs, so that so many people can eat. The cold. Not having money to turn on the heating, you won't tell me that's not true, it causes 7,000 premature deaths per year. More than 100,000 dependents have died in Spain since 2012 waiting for the aid recognized by the State that never arrived. I mean, the Spaniards know, we've already realized, that their treatment doesn't even cure the pain. Another bad news, Mr Rajoy, is that the Spaniards are extinguishing us, I will not say like dinosaurs, but rather extinguishing. This year, for the first time, and it is official data, the number of deaths in Spain will exceed the number of births. If your party, God does not want it, or especially the Spaniards do not want it, will rule in Spain for long enough, within a few chandeliers there would be no one left. This is a country that languishes, but you are committed, despite the announcements that you made today, to Spain remaining one of those seven European countries in which there is no universal child benefit. Yes, he has made a commitment because he voted against a parliamentary initiative. You prefer, rather than a universal help per child in charge, to know which box you will pay for, thank the Spaniards. Thank you. Why? For not being born? To die before they get the help they were entitled to by the State? So far the bad news. The good news is that the vast majority of Spaniards do not resign themselves to living with their senseless and mediocre way of doing politics. The good news is they're going to fight to build the Spain they deserve. The good news is that we know that the way out of the triple crisis - political, social and economic - that we suffer is by uniting the Spaniards in front of the gigantic scam of the old parties. Yeah, scam. That is what makes this nation great, Mr Rajoy, the decision of the Spaniards to unite to achieve a common goal, demonstrating, once again, as many throughout history, that we are prepared to make difficult decisions and to fight for all that we love. You, Mr. Rajoy, practice saving yourself who you can. We don't want to leave anyone lying around. By the way, not to the citizens without papers that you spoke of this morning lying, once again, by saying that all Spaniards had coverage. No, no, You have left hundreds of thousands of citizens who live and work or have worked in Spain. They've been left without health care. We will not leave anyone and not the citizens without papers. Mr. Rajoy, do you know within this good news what is most dramatic? The most dramatic of this situation is the minimum distance between the enormous suffering that its policy is inflicting on the Spaniards and how little it would cost to begin to alleviate that pain from now on. Eradicate child poverty, Mr Rajoy, costs €9.5 billion. Save science and research, only 320 million. End cuts in health and education, 15 billion euros. In sum, less than 25 billion euros. Health. By the way, you talked here today about how good our health is. It is much better, despite you, than you would leave it with your measures, but I also have a question, rather than a question, a reflection. Take it seriously because it's serious. There's a guy who's working in pediatric emergencies. His name is David. It says: Right now, a lady gives whole milk to her baby because she can't afford continuity. A mother who cries for not being able to pay for the vaccines. That's today and it's Madrid. It's not something out of where we're meeting right now. By adding up, Mr Montoro, if we ended up with corruption - I say Montoro because you're the one with the numbers, not because you have the blame directly; forgive me, I didn't want to allude to you - which are the extra costs in public contracts - but from you that has enough, eh? - according to official data, we would save 48 billion. Look, we would still have 23 billion left that we could devote to the productive economy and to alleviating suffering. Add to these figures 25 billion in doubles and 70 billion in tax fraud - official data - and we will have an extra 125 billion to put the country into operation. I'm talking about official figures, so official they're yours. Tell me, Mr. Rajoy, what kind of politician refuses to do that? One like you, obviously. Being part of a community, Mr Rajoy, is a very positive thing. Spain is not a unit of destiny in the universal world, as others would, as some would like, nor a country of nations as others preach. The Spain we deserve is a nation in which the effective exercise of our rights under the Constitution does not depend on the place in which we are born, nor on the language in which we speak, nor on the money we have. Rights depend only on the strength of our institutions. A united nation is one in which there are no medieval privileges granted throughout centuries of Spanish black history by central power to leave those of Madrid in peace. A united nation has an efficient territorial model, which prevents waste and duplication, which guarantees equality for citizens and good management of services. That is Spain that deserves the 46 million Spaniards that we represent here today. The second good news, Mr Rajoy, is that, unlike you, Spain is a progressive nation. Progress is not a market ideology, Mr Rajoy. Progress is essentially the excellence in education offered by the State to its citizens. That is why our party advocates a great national pact for education; a pact that guarantees the quality and sustainability of the system. Mr. Rajoy, those macroeconomic data you've been talking about, these that you display these days as if they were war plates or medals in the sin of a Russian marshal, only tell us skewedly - but only - how the country is now; a photograph as useless, as ephemeral, as Mr. Zapatero taught us, by the way, when he sold us that we were in the Champion League. The income level - our GDP - tells us what we are. The level of education tells us what we're going to be tomorrow. His Government had reduced investment in education by 10% in three years. Students in engineering, architecture and science have fallen by around 25% over the last ten years. That is the future that you, Mr Rajoy, offer us. Do you believe, Mr Rajoy, that the country of Lorca, Cervantes, Paco de Lucía, Giner de los Ríos, Ortega and Gasset, can be located between positions 27 or 31 of a total of 44 countries? Shouldn't it be placed in the top five? With you, Spain languishes, Mr Rajoy. What is reflected in OECD data is that education does not give Spaniards the opportunity to be creative and that the transformation of the whole system is needed. Labour markets demand critical thinking, creativity, intuition, teamwork; the four virtues that characterize the proposal that I am defending today on behalf of my group. Spain, by the way, Mr Rajoy, is also a secular Spain. But make no mistake - let no one be mistaken - secularism is not a question merely related to religion; secularism is, substantially, the separation of powers. Therefore, a secular State guarantees absolute neutrality in identity matters by preventing institutions from pressing citizens to integrate into a particular identity model. The progressive Spain is the Spain that fights vigorously against corruption despite its rulers. A friend who was watching the debate this morning told me that when you talk about corruption - he is dedicated to the theater - goes, as you say in the theater, with the hook put, which is a thing that actors do when they are reading or saying a part of the text in which they don't believe much, then they go with the hook put because they are eager to get quickly to the next paragraph. When you talked about corruption this morning, you went with the hook on, and by the way you were just looking at your bench. Do you really want to end corruption? Don't set up an office, stop appointing the Attorney General of the State and instruct him; stop monitoring the General Council of the Judiciary or the Court of Auditors. Like we did, by the way. Progress Union and Democracy has been the only party that has given up participating in that dirty game where they offered us to be because we had representation. Check it out, Mr. Rajoy. Three times we have said no, like San Pedro, three times not in the Community of Madrid: not to the Council of Telemadrid, not to the Council of the Canal of Isabel II and not to participate in the Council of Control of Accounts. Facts, Mr. Rajoy, not words. Can anyone in this House say the same thing? Well, no. It is progressive Spain that guarantees real equality; real equality also between men and women. Is it not embarrassing that a Spanish woman - more colleagues have asked her, but I think it is opportune to insist - has to work three months more a year to win the same as a Spanish woman? That's all right, man!, we're in 2015. It is a shame, yes, a national shame. Maybe to solve it Spain needs a woman's look. In democracy, Mr Rajoy, there are codes of conduct that limit us; call them ethical or ethical codes, but those codes exist. I don't know if you know that, but there are millions of Spaniards who don't do certain things, not because it's a crime, but because they seem ugly, insolidary, harmful to their compatriots, little exemplary. For you, the only code of conduct to be respected in democracy seems to be the Criminal Code. And don't quit when they lie or leak tax agency data to journalists to harm their political rivals. Does that ring a bell? With regard to that, by the way, Mr. Bárcenas, his former treasurer, his trusted man, the one you appointed, explained a few days ago, when he left prison and went on vacation, that he had made public the messages that you exchanged because he was of course going to resign. Instead, there you go, in the blue bank, waiting to see if you escape, to see if the Spaniards forget that you have paid the headquarters of your party with black money, with box B, to see if you forget all the Spaniards who have paid for the elections by financing them with black money. Mr Rajoy, let me tell you, you despise democracy. As I said, there are codes of conduct that limit us because when you lie before the Congress of Deputies you must resign, even if there is no law that obliges you. To ascertain, by the way, that you have lied does not require a new order from any judge, it is enough to read the "Diary of Sessions". He ends his term without us knowing what his country idea is. It lacks, as in so many things, ambition; ambition of wisdom, ambition of a country, ambition of prosperity, ambition of innovation, ambition of decency and honesty. Spain deserves an ambitious Government, a Government that believes in this people and that helps to create a project that is not only going in the short term but also leading the future. This country, this Spain, is what we could call Spain 5-0: 5% unemployment, 5% school failure, at least one university among the top five in the world, 5% public-private investment in R & D+i, 5% increase in gross domestic product and, at the same time, 0% corruption, 0% poverty, 0% projects that seek to break up our coexistence. That's the 5-0 Spain we deserve. [[Applauds]] In a country in which talent has been given more weight in recent years than talent, in which the word excellence has denoted more to an official position with a driver than to a researcher or artist of merit, I claim on behalf of my group - on behalf of Union Progreso and Democracy and I dare to say that on behalf of millions of Spaniards - Spain of Lorca and Dalí, Spain of Albeniz and Falla, Spain of Sánchez Ferlosio, that of Ana María Matute. I re-vinced the Spain of Mariano Barbacid and Grande Covián, the Spain of Marañón and Besteiro; yes, two politicians, a liberal and a social democrat, both good men, Spanish without complexes. That is Spain that we deserve, Spain that all Spaniards deserve, Spain that again has hope and that trusts in its future. Mr. Rajoy, I'm glad to thank you. I'm done, Mr. Rajoy. At no time - you will not have noticed - throughout my speech have I called you President. It has not been a coincidence, believe me, because, except in strictly legal terms, I, a prime minister who lies again and again in parliamentary office, do not consider him my president. Good night, Mr. Rajoy. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard some things a while ago, but we do not know any other things at all. In any case, I will try to respond to those we have learned and I will try to find out, if I am able - a difficult thing because there are efforts that are very difficult to achieve - to find out from someone else. So soon we've learned that the People's Party is going to lose the elections, I don't question it; instead, look, I think you're going very well, judging by what I see out there, and it's going to have a very brilliant result. [[Laughter and applause]] I congratulate you in advance. He says that real Spain is not fooled by Mr Rajoy, but I fear that for you much less than for Mr Rajoy, much less. [[Applauds]] In any case, I must thank him for his speech; he has been kind and generous and I consider myself privileged. He has treated me infinitely better than Mr Sosa Wagner, than Mr Maura and all the people of his party, who will leave her alone within a few days. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The only thing that's worrying is that once Sosa Wagner left, or they kicked him out - in what way! - or Mr. Maura or everyone who's gone, as others continue to go, I'm going to stay alone and stop being privileged because all the inquisitorial anger is going to fall on me, Mrs. Díez, and that worries me. [[Laughter and applause]] You have to be a little more modest, a little less proud. Mrs Díez, I strongly disagree with what you have said about the macro figures of the Spanish economy. I don't agree. I am also in a much bigger disagreement because I see that you take away the importance of macro figures; it is metaphysically impossible to make policies that create jobs and benefit society as a whole without what they call some - it is true - macroeconomics going well. Spain had a big problem, had many; one of them was imbalances. It is very difficult with a very high public deficit that there will eventually be economic growth and employment. It is very difficult, with a financial sector with the situation in which ours was, that this should happen; it is very difficult with an external sector, which, due to lack of competitiveness, is in the negative, that we can do something. It is very difficult, with an external debt that is almost GDP, that we can generate well-being for the citizens. There are many people who recognize - man, you can deny it! - that the effort that has been made over these three years has made it possible to correct much of our imbalances and that is why we are starting to grow and create jobs. I therefore do not agree with the statements you have made in this House. He also states that there are positive data, and many, in the Spanish economy; that employment is better. Why do you insist on denying the evidence? You could say that there are some things that are going well, because for the first time since 2006 last year, 2014, jobs have been created in our country and unemployment has not increased. I could say it, and nothing happens because it's true and everyone knows it. I could say that last year the number of people employed in Spain increased - the EPA says - by 450,000 people and the number of members of Social Security by more than four hundred. Why does he not recognize what is true if, then, to criticize the government, he can have a lot of arguments? The next time you come here, as in the previous case, I will also give you a role and I will tell you: Look, here the government is wrong. And you will be right, because it will also be very difficult for me to defend myself from what I myself have said. I think it would do you good, because to have an intervention like the one we have seen today, frankly, you have a small problem. Politics - he says - is to give solutions. Note: I'm not giving numbers. Well, I do give numbers! Because numbers are indisputable, and you offer slogans that are value judgments. He uses slogans and in the end we don't know what he thinks about anything. Let's see. On the economic imbalances, on what has happened in Spain at this time with the economy, in this country in these three years, do you have any opinion? Any? What do you think of the government deficit? Do you think that we are doing well, that we are doing badly, that we did well in reforming article 135 of the Constitution, that we are right, that we are not right, that it has been useful, that it has been beneficial? What effects do you think it has produced? Because he hasn't said a word about important issues. On the outside, do you have any opinion? Do you think it's good or bad that I'm positive or that I'm negative? How do you think it affects competitiveness in the external sector? Do you know what that is? What do you think are the most important decisions the Government has taken to improve competitiveness? What do you think of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, the restructuring of the financial system, the reform of the labour market, everything I have said here today? I said, therefore you should have an opinion on that, which I believe has been useful and positive for Spain. In social policies, what do you think the government has not asked for the ransom? Do you have any opinion? Today I don't know if he has it, but in his day he had it because on December 11, 2012 he said in the SER Chain: In Spain the rescue is not an option, it is a necessity; we are only incapable. I'd be incapable of you! The Government of Spain was very capable and avoided the rescue. [[Applauds]] Do you have any opinion on that? Ah! [[Rumors]] Well, it would be very interesting if you could explain it to us here tonight. Do you have any opinion about what has happened to countries that have been forced to ask for a ransom? I'll give you some data. I'm not going to quote countries because it doesn't make the case. Pensioners in a rescued country have been cut by 20%. Public employees' pensions in another country fell by an average of 4 % and pension taxes increased. In another country, a special contribution was introduced for the highest and the rest froze. The Troika forced a reduction in the number of civil servants in one country, including redundancies in one country and the application of salary cuts of 12 per cent in one country and 15 per cent in Cyprus. Social benefits in those countries were also affected. One country reduced the time and generosity of unemployment benefit and the public spending reduction programme in another country included strong cuts in social spending. In another country, direct support to families was eliminated. They forced another country to raise taxes by 2,850 million or 1,245 million increase in income tax in another country. When you stood in favour of the rescue, did you care anything about what could happen to all the Spaniards, the pensioners and all the people? Did you mind what happened to him in those countries to which I have just referred? Do you have any opinion? Do you recognize that you were wrong? Or did the press misinterpret it? Well, that's what we need to talk about. You have to give opinions on serious issues and not come here to tell us your life. What do you think of the FLA? Do you have any views on the Autonomic Liquidity Fund? Because this is very important. All the people who have spoken in this House today have spoken about the FLA, what it has served and what it has not served. Do you have any opinion of the Supplier Payment Plan? Because some opinion will, and it's an important issue. Do you have any views on tax reform? From the regulation of pensions? Of the decisions that have been taken in the field of unemployment and in the field of education? Do you have any opinion about anything? [[Rumors]] Hey, and about Europe, do you have any opinion? I have talked about the banking union and the single resolution mechanism. Do you have any opinion? Electrical interconnections? Is it right or wrong that there should be a meeting here between the President of the French Republic, the Portuguese and the President of the Commission? This is a fundamental issue for the price of light and for the competitiveness of our companies. It's very important, and I don't know if you have any opinion on that. I am not going to ask you for an opinion on Ukraine or Greece - I suppose the subject will be known as the rest of the matters. Your Honour, do you have any opinion that your country's government is saying that next year the economy is going to grow by 2.4%? I say this because that is also a very important issue because it affects the well-being and wealth of the Spaniards. Do you have any opinion on the forecasts I have announced today regarding consumption, for example, investment or growth? What do you think about me saying in this House that this year more than 500,000 jobs will be created in Spain and that between 2014 and 2015 a million jobs will be created, that the goal has to be to reach 20 million and that if we maintain the same economic policy in four years we will be able to achieve it? Do you have any opinion? I am telling you this because this is also a very important issue. Mrs. Díaz, I have the feeling that you have no opinion about anything but yourself, and so it goes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u71	Mr. Rajoy, it's Diez, by the way. First - and very seriously, very seriously - we are not here today to discuss either your party or mine. [[Rumors]] ; maybe you do, but I'm not here to discuss either your party or mine. This is the debate on the state of the Nation, not on the state of the People's Party, which we already know is, by the way, corrupt. [[Applauds]] We are going to talk about the problems of the Spaniards, to make a diagnosis and to give solutions; to contribute those that belong to each one. If you want to talk about the health of your party and that of mine, we go to a TV whenever you want and to the one you want and we discuss it. Do you think so? But today we are here to talk about the problems of Spanish citizens. Neither are we to name people, but if you want me to name those members of the People's Party who are no longer in it because they are in jail or accused, I make a relationship. Do you think so? [[Applauds]] There is no longer in the People's Party such a Mr Bárcenas, nor such a Mr Matas, nor such a Mr Fabra, nor the Albondiguilla - I don't remember his name -, nor such a mayor of Pozuelo, nor such a Ricardo Costa. Am I? [[Rumors]] No, the judges have taken you to jail for corrupt doing business for you; because you did not drive you out, you have had to take you to jail. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Second question. Turning to the debate on the state of the nation, you have asked me a few times, as well as making grace at the end of your speech, if I have any opinion, any opinion. Look, Mr. Rajoy, do you know what's wrong with you? That comes very little to the Congress of Deputies and on all the issues that we have addressed today in this debate this parliamentary group, on behalf of whom I am speaking, has put forward proposals over these three years. [[Rumors]] By the way, you have thrown them all away to recover them a few years later: for example, the Second Chance Law, if it had been launched three years ago, when we introduced it, would have avoided the suffering of many thousands of families who have been evicted for not doing what you should have done. [[Applauds]] I mean, of course I have an opinion. We have brought them in, we have discussed them, and you have voted against them, by the way, because they were good for the Spaniards; but all you were concerned about was that a parliamentary group called the Progressive Union and Democracy was bringing them to this House. I do have opinions! By the way, during my previous speech you see that you do not listen; there is no worse deaf person than the one who does not want to hear. You can see that you do not listen, because during my previous speech I have also given you an opinion of many things. [[Mr Moragas Sánchez speaks words that are not perceived]] Well, another one who doesn't listen if he hasn't heard it. On all these issues I have given you an opinion today and for three years; but in addition to an opinion I have a certainty, we all have a certainty, the ones we are here and the millions of Spaniards - by the way they also have it on their bench - that you lie, lie every time you speak and lie in this rostrum. That won't be a crime, but it's entrepreneurship, improper for a gentleman to sit on the blue bank. We have an opinion and we have a certainty, that one. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Then you say that if we have an opinion on the issue of social security, on debt. I told you about that in my speech. You say the figures are important. Of course, some of those I've given you are important, for example there are 650,000 fewer social security affiliations now than when you arrived. Does that seem like an important figure? Do you or don't you think that's an important figure? Do you think it is important that there are more than 3 million unemployed workers who do not receive any kind of subsidy? Do you think it's important or do you think it's ballady? Do you think it is important that there are 1,200,000 workers with jobs living in poverty? Do you think it's important or does that sound like a ballad? I have also used figures, for some reason official figures. Tell me about the debt. Does it not concern you that we have a debt of one billion euros, at the end of the year more than one hundred percent of GDP? And next year even more. Do you not worry that for every hour that we are in this House together the debt continues to grow exponentially? Is that not worrying or does it not affect the lives of citizens? Don't you know that debt will be paid by our children and grandchildren? Is it important or isn't it important? What do you want, to give you reason using your own figures, because when I use different ones to really talk - and I'm giving official data - you ask me if I have an opinion? Anyway, you have a little strange way of doing politics, apart from rudeness, but that's what I'm used to. [[Rumors]] You have a rather strange way of doing politics. He likes these debates in which you can come up here to put up with each other, a debate like that which took place at five o'clock this afternoon; a debate in which we were watching half of the House blame the other half of the House for what you did, for what you stopped doing. The worst thing is, do you know what it is? That you two were right, because you have destroyed this country together, man. [[Rumors and protests.-Applause]] Together, together. He asked me if I had an opinion on the reform of article 135 of the Constitution. Of course I have it! I was alone when you guys snorted that. When they agreed I was sitting up there alone, and I voted against, yes, and I still think the same; that is, of course I have an opinion. I've said it, I've manifested it in its time and after. He asks me again - he insists - about the rescue. Listen, when I came up to the rostrum, you would be distracted or thinking of something very deep, because I know that you have some very deep thoughts that this poor Member of Parliament does not reach. [[Rumors]] No, no; in short, you have some very deep thoughts. You would be there in your deep thoughts as a great statesman as I explained to you that in Spain there has been a rescue. You come out here and ask me, "What about the ransom?" Well, the rescue does. Spain has lived a rescue. [[The President of the Government, Rajoy Brey, makes negative gestures]] Yes, you have asked for a ransom and granted it to us; a financial ransom, but a ransom. [[Rumors]] Shall I tell you again? Come on, come on, [[Rumors]] Are you the only Spaniard who doesn't know? It is true that his deep thoughts and all the responsibilities he has on his shoulders may well mislead him a little, but they have rescued us and put us thirty-nine conditions. They told us what we couldn't spend that money on, we have to return it and we have to return it with interest. Yeah, we've been rescued. Don't tell me I said it in the past. I said it in the past and I say it in the present because it's the truth, and I like to tell the truth. I said it in the past and I say it in the present. About growth - you have also talked about it in the replica - do you have any opinion about our growth? I have the opinion that it is best to grow little - if you grow much, much better - but what you cannot accept is that you lie also about growth. It is not true that Spain is the fastest growing country in the European Union. It's official data. [[Several Members: You have not said so!]] Yes, he's said it several times. [[Rumors]] Yes, man, who has said so, read the "Diary of Sessions". [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u72	Don't get into discussions. Follow you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u73	A couple of times Mr Rajoy - to stick to the strict truth - has said of the big countries - I repeat, a couple of times - and at least four times has said that we are the fastest growing country in the European Union. [[Rumors]] Greece and Ireland grow more than we do, Mr President, and there are fourteen that grow equal or more. Even in official data to boast you come here and lie to us. Then you come here and you want to examine me. The blue bank is yours! For now, but yours. Perhaps you are very keen to pass on to the opposition, but for the time being the Spaniards have voted for me to examine you and to tell you the truth that you do not want to say either here or out of here, and the first of the truths is that Spain will not come out of the political crisis, nor from the economic crisis, nor from the social crisis as long as you have a president who lies. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u75	Your Honor, I did not intend to make any examination of Mrs Díez, but if she thought that she was being examined, I have to say that the note is an absolute suspension. I'm so sorry. [[Applauds]] We have learned that he has an opinion about something; of course, what he has is not an opinion about anything, which is not exactly the same. You've done a prestigitation exercise with the rescue here. What I said was that you were one of the few Spaniards who sat in this House who spoke in favour of a rescue such as that of Greece, as that of Ireland or as that of Portugal, and that rescue did much harm to those countries. [[Applauds]] You cared about everything; what could happen to pensioners, what could happen to social policies, budget cuts, decisions that could impose on us, nothing. There were some who said that Spain continued to maintain its economic sovereignty, although this is not the case. You and some others who continue to circulate and give lessons for our country wanted Spain to be rescued. Luckily, there was a majority here. I have to say that the vast majority of this House, except you, did not accept it. That would be good for you to recognize it; it is difficult for you to do so, because it is the greatest political mistake that a person who sits in this House can have to renounce the sovereignty of his country. I'll never do that. Thank you very much. [[A lady Member: Okay.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-02-24-CD150224.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and thirty minutes of the night.
