ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we met with the stupor of the death of a teacher at the Joan Fuster high school in Barcelona, at the hands of a 13-year-old student, who also wounded four more people. Today, dismayed by the tragic event, the Congress of Deputies wants to join the pain of family members, friends and the entire people of Barcelona, and to express its support and solidarity with the educational community. AMENDMENT OF THE AGENDA
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u2	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House that the agenda for Thursday morning be amended in item 30, concerning the debate on the whole of the draft law on the management, supervision and solvency of insurance entities, to be discussed after item 28. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] This will be done and the agenda will be changed.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u3	Firstly, it is appropriate to discuss the consideration of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposal for a reform of the Regulation on the processing of proposals for popular initiative legislation. For your presentation, Mrs Batet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the establishment of democracy in our country, there has been a mechanism for the direct participation of citizens in relation to the legislative power, such as the popular legislative initiative. In this regard, article 87.3 of the Constitution already provides for this. In fact, it provides for the need to collect 500,000 signatures in order to bring this popular legislative initiative to this House. The number of signatures would certainly also be another relevant debate on this subject, but that would entail a reform of the Constitution and therefore escapes this parliamentary procedure. Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies also provides for and develops this mechanism of direct participation, as well as Organic Law 3/1984, which regulates the popular legislative initiative. This is the regulatory framework for reference in this area. Today the Socialist Parliamentary Group is bringing this issue to debate, as it seems obvious that this regulation has not favoured the instrument of participation of the popular legislative initiative to function as it should. For their verification, I invite you to review the initiatives that have been taken into consideration, that have prospered and that have ended up being approved in a recognizable manner by the promoters. I will begin by sharing with all of you why the Socialist Group has decided today to bring this initiative to plenary. In almost all legislatures there has been an attempt to amend the Rules of Procedure, aware that addressing the improvement of the functioning of the Congress of Deputies should be a priority for all parliamentary groups represented in this House, but the lack of consensus has always prevented these changes from coming forward. Therefore, since June 2012, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has presented proposals for partial reform of the House's Rules of Procedure. The first was for the Committee on Petitions to become a genuine civic participation commission. They were all rejected by the People's Parliamentary Group, arguing that it was not the right forum for its debate. A presentation was therefore requested to discuss the reform of the relevant rule, i.e. the Rules of Procedure of the House. In April 2013, such a presentation was made to reform that Regulation. In April 2014, a year after there had been total immobility to convene the presentation and, therefore, also avoiding, simultaneously, that discussions on this subject could be held at the plenary session of this House, the first meeting of this House took place. It is agreed to divide the paragraphs to be reformed into blocks, with the aim of being adopted as they are agreed, in order to avoid precisely blocking the whole text by specific details, as happened in the so-called Marin reform or as happened in each of the proposals and impulses that have been attempted to amend this Regulation. Since that date, the presentation had been held almost monthly and it had been agreed that the legislative procedure would be the first paragraph to be reformed as the agreement on this issue was to be more easily reached a priori. In January 2015, the Socialist Parliamentary Group launched an ultimatum to the People's Parliamentary Group to comment on the proposals for reform of the legislative procedure that had been put forward, bearing in mind that we were already on the way to two years of making up the paper and had addressed only the first of the points set out. Of the 28 amendments proposed by all the parliamentary groups, the People's Group accepted three. In March 2015, my group announced its withdrawal from the paper for the reform of the Rules of Procedure, as it was quite clear that the majority group had no intention of making any changes to the text. In fact, the People's Party made the presentation with the aim of blocking any public debate on the reform of the Rules of Procedure, having deliberately delayed the debate throughout the entire legislature. It seems that we are immersed in a kind of eternal Nietzschean return. So we will return to the beginning and the Socialist Parliamentary Group will again put forward proposals for partial reforms in plenary, with the aim of making public the political position of each of the parliamentary groups on this matter and the genuine political will to take steps to adapt our institutions to new realities. This bill is the first of these initiatives and we propose to discuss, as I have already announced, the improvement of a direct participation mechanism such as popular legislative initiatives. In fact, the organic law regulating this initiative already provides for the participation of a person by the promoters to defend this initiative or, even, the Organic Law of Political Parties also provides that he may participate in the Commission. But the truth is that, as all honourable Members know, those of the People's Parliamentary Group too, if it is not included in the Rules of Procedure of the House, none of these legal provisions will have any effect. The proposal for a law that we want to take into consideration proposes the participation of the promoters of popular legislative initiatives at two points in the legislative procedure. First of all, in the debate that is always taking account of the plenary - like the one we are having today - and for whose defence all the proposals of law have a voice: the proposals of law presented by parliamentary groups of Congress; the proposals of law presented by parliamentary groups of the Senate, which support their debate in the Senate, or the proposals of law presented by legislative assemblies or autonomous parliaments. All but popular legislative initiatives. The second point at which we also consider it relevant for the promoters to appear in this House is when the debate begins in the Commission, that is, once all the amendments have been tabled by the parliamentary groups and the report of the presentation is in existence and is known. As I said, this citizen demand arises to materialize a constant participation in political life and public decisions, beyond the vote issued every four years. My group is aware that this proposal for a law is not enough and is partial to what is actually sought and needed, but it is certainly an important element of confluence and sum, symbolically of bringing Parliament closer to its citizens and citizens to its Parliament. It is also true that, in any case, the person who comes to defend the ILP also comes on behalf of 500,000 people who have signed this initiative, so all the paths lead to representation; it seems reasonable that the 500,000 people do not come to defend the text presented. In fact, the vast majority of citizens are not asking for a pure direct democracy, but for representative democracy to work, and for it to work well, and for the mechanisms of direct participation to work, and to work well. They do not ask for direct democracy because they do not ask for everyone to participate all the time above all, but for public institutions to function and be strong in the face of other institutions or powers that do not represent the whole of the citizenry, that is, that represent non-democratic powers. The decency of politics cannot be left alone in the hands of people's goodness, but institutional strength is needed. That is what gives genuine guarantees and security to citizens. Strengthen the media; do not weaken them, as this legislature has passed with Spanish Television. Strengthen public employees; do not discredit them with frivolous comments. Strengthen the various levels of government, local and autonomous; do not cast shadows of constant doubt or legislate directly to dismantle them, as has happened with the recent local reform. Strengthen the Tax Agency, justice or the police; do not take over these institutions. To strengthen Parliament as an organ representing popular sovereignty, listening to the opposition and taking its proposals seriously; not to play three and a half years with the reform of the Rules of Procedure, knowing that there was no willingness to reach agreement. To legislate by deliberating and not making decrees-laws for all and against all. Do not use the procedure of amendments to introduce, without debate, extremely controversial issues on which the parliamentary groups in this House were known and it is well known that they do not have an agreement. Appear to explain policies, to explain decisions and to assume responsibilities. None of that is being done by the absolute majority of the People's Party. Thus, existing shortcomings - because they exist - of our institutionality are aggravated by the policy and praxis adopted by that absolute majority. Because having good laws and good regulation is certainly something very important, but believing in the institutions, ensuring their proper functioning and committing to what Parliament represents has a lot to do with the political attitude; it has a lot to do with a genuine defence of the public and it has a lot to do with wanting the openness and permeability of the institutions before the citizens. However, we would not only improve each of the institutions, but would help to strengthen the democratic system itself. The improvement of the direct participation mechanism of the ILP improves the legislative role of Parliament. However, there is no doubt that the improvement of the other major role of this House, such as control of the Government, must also be addressed. The assumption of political responsibility, which has nothing to do with criminal responsibility, by means of appearances or by allowing the setting up of commissions of inquiry, should be a democratic culture normally assumed by all the political groups that are part of this House. [[Applauds]] I will give you an example: the consequences of this government's approval of a tax amnesty do not seem to bear criminal responsibility, of course it is not for this Member to judge it; but I have no doubt, absolutely no doubt, that it does have political responsibilities, and many. Those are the ones that should be examined and clarified in the Congress of Deputies, in this House and by all parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]] The debate we intend to put forward with this initiative goes far beyond the simple issue of the ILP, it is not simply a debate to improve an institution of direct democracy, but, above all, a debate on the need to improve the quality of our democratic system, to change it to ensure its survival. This is the time to raise this debate, ladies and gentlemen. The growing poverty caused by the economic crisis and also corruption has exacerbated criticism of the democratic model, so that politicians and political parties have gone from criticism of concrete behaviour to criticism of the same model of representation and democracy. That is why it is essential that we be precisely the representatives of the citizens, and therefore all those who are part of this House, of the sovereign, who wonder what needs to be done to improve the system, and we need to do it and we need to do it now. The Government is carrying out the entire legislature by announcing measures, sometimes up to four times, often in a coup d'état, measures that never arrive, and by vetoing the proposals made by the rest of the parliamentary groups in this area. The People's Party and its Government are not in a position to address this task, nor do they believe in public institutions and the need for their strength to build a better society, nor do they have the political will to listen and reach agreements. The majority, or I would even say that all the parliamentary groups in this House, share the need to improve this instrument of direct participation as is the popular legislative initiative. I ask you, in this procedure of consideration, to vote in favour of this bill by all groups. This will break the paralysis of the work of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, improve a mechanism for direct participation and thus improve the democratic institution par excellence, as is precisely the one that represents - as I said - popular sovereignty, that is, this Parliament. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u5	We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Is it necessary to reform the Regulation to ensure the participation of the committee promoting popular legislative initiatives? The answer is clearly yes and therefore we have already announced that we are going to vote in favour of the proposal. Is that enough with what you're proposing? We understand that you could go much further. Compromis shares the idea that the processes of forming the institutionalized political will in parliaments are connected with a public opinion that is not formally articulated. Democracy would require the participation of citizens in the system of parliamentarianism to the greatest extent possible, complementing our work as representatives of sovereignty with the permanent flow of public opinion and the institutions that represent it. Parliament can only be strengthened if the people are involved in the decisions that are taken, and people are involved if they perceive that their contribution is taken into account, that is, if they are heard. To participate, as has happened so far, to be deceived, as happened with the popular legislative initiative of the mortgage-affected platform, obviously unmotivated, although perhaps that was the goal: to demotivate so that not many popular legislative initiatives are presented. It is necessary to address a reform of the Regulation together with the reform of Organic Law 3/1984 in order to update it in this line. The first necessary step relates to legislative matters that are susceptible to popular legislative initiatives, avoiding the limitations of matters that coerce citizen expression. As far as budgetary matters are concerned, the possibility should be opened that citizens can request an improvement in budgetary content for certain matters through this mechanism. With regard to the number of signatures required, it should be adapted to the population reality and the number of signatures required in countries in our environment. I give you an example, in Italy, with more population than the Spanish State, the minimum required is only 50,000, and in the legislation of the European legislative initiative the minimum number has been set at one million, i.e. only twice what is required here. Applying the same percentage, only 63,600 signatures should be required in the Spanish State. As for the minimum age for participation, so that it is an optimal mechanism, so that young people - like this one we have up here today listening to us - are part of the political debate and decision-making process. Compromís therefore proposes that, in order to begin the exercise of citizenship by means of the proposal, it should be possible to sign from the age of sixteen. As far as parliamentary processing is concerned, the drivers of the initiative have to be an active part and protagonist in the process - that is why we agree with this initiative - and they have to have a voice and capacity to propose appearances and to be heard. In addition, in the face of the Bureau's non-admission of the legislative initiative, we call for the filing of an appeal for replenishment, without having to go directly to the Constitutional Court. We also think they have to have obligations; the promoter committee should make public the origin of the funding of the legislative initiative, the entities supporting it and the public accountability. In short, we will vote yes to this proposal knowing that it is a small step towards opening the doors of this house to the citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u7	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the same group, Mr Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to involve you in our solidarity with the Movistar workers, both the contractors and those who are employees of the subcontractors. I will be allowed to send you a message, I repeat, of solidarity. They're on strike because they're against working conditions that break into slavery. I conclude by saying that on Thursday 23rd there is a great demonstration in Madrid of all the Movistar workers, which we hope will be a great success because, I repeat, we are already...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u9	Mr. Tardà, get back to it, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u10	Yeah. He said that working conditions are scratching in slavery. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of the proposal put forward by the Socialist Group. We ourselves presented one in the Commission's work; in fact, we presented fifty proposals, one of which was related to the popular legislative initiative. Perhaps they could have gone a little further, they could have been a little more daring to understand that it is not only a question of giving citizens between the ages of sixteen and eighteen years the possibility of signing a popular legislative initiative, but why it must be limited to citizens of Spanish nationality. If it is to encourage popular participation, all those who are registered, even if not of Spanish nationality, should be able to sign a popular legislative initiative. We also understand that once the popular legislative initiative has arrived at the Congress of Deputies, the Congress should commit itself to discussing it at the session at which it was presented by the citizenry. Of course - and this is the case in the Catalan Parliament and it is possible that it will happen in parliaments in other territories of the current Spanish State - the legal services of the Congress of Deputies would have to advise citizens wishing to carry out such an initiative and it should be possible to present and defend it in any of the co-official languages of the current Spanish State. I believe that the Socialist Group has been short, but the important thing is that it can be discussed; in its process we would already try to have the Socialist Group or the majority who conformed to accept our proposals. We agree that representatives of the People's Legislative Initiative must be able to take part not only in defending the initiative, but also in the presentation or in the Commission to consider its opinion. In general, we might quite agree. If I wish to mention, even if it is quickly, that our parliamentary group, which is basically represented by comrade Uxue Barkos and myself, Joan Tardà, we have been very active in all the work that has been carried out by the presentation and the Commission opened by the President of Congress, Mr Posada, and which once again ended in failure, because when they are not one, they are the other. This X Legislature will also end without reform of the Rules of Congress of Deputies. I must say that in the first parliamentary term of President Rodríguez Zapatero it was not possible because in the end the People's Party and the Socialist Party were unable to recognize the linguistic rights of Members of Parliament. Then, in the last legislature, very little progress was made and, this time, naive of us, we believed that at last the People's Party and the Socialist Party would be able to agree and conclude with this need for reform of Congress so that this House, this institution, would cease to have these nineteenth-century airs and would really be a leading and functional House according to the times we live of demand and participation. Once again, I must say that we have worked as the most, although as always the Catalan Republicans are frustrated because once again we have been fooled. There was a time when the Socialist Party took us away and now the People's Party has taken us away. In fact, you are real hairdressers and we are victims of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Basque Group, Mr Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking from the seat because this has already been discussed a thousand times and I do not know what this proposal is now about when we have just been discussing the possibilities of amending the Rules of Congress. In any case, it seems to us that the people's initiative can have a defence in the process of being taken into consideration and even at the start of the legislative committee. I do not know whether it is presented for election campaign or simply the way of thinking of the Socialist Party; in any case, it seems good to us, for us it will not be that popular participation does not come forward. What we would rather dislike is that this became a contest of who is most popular, which can become the most populist of the whole class. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u13	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Esteban is right when he says that this is quite debated or very much debated, but in the opinion of the Progressive Union and Democracy, not by much debated, it must no longer be necessary to address this issue. It is, as Mr Esteban and the spokesman of the Socialist Group themselves said, the proposer, debated and even, supposedly, agreed because in the debates of the paper, when this issue was addressed, it seemed that all of us who were part of it were quite in agreement. It is true that the Group of the European People's Party did not see very well that it would appear at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies who presented the popular legislative initiative, who thought that it was necessary to do so in the Commission, but it is also true that we all wanted to change the system so that whoever presented the initiative could come to defend it in the House. The truth is that it gave the impression that we were all in agreement on this matter, which has to do with the control of citizens over their political representatives, which has to do with a citizen demand and a political demand to open institutions to citizens from the perspective that we do represent citizens, although there are citizen participation formulas that at this time of the century require a better channelling, a better way of participating than the one that so far has those who defend a popular legislative initiative. It is true - Mr Esteban said - that someone might think that this proposal arises because we are facing an election. I prefer not to think badly, to think that this arises because we have not done what we were committed to do. I am not going to defend here the right of each of the groups to present the initiatives at any time; we have been penalised many times by almost all the groups in the House, let alone all, at the time when we are presenting the initiatives, but the truth is that this issue is appropriate, it is a matter on which we should have reached an agreement, it was among the issues discussed in the presentation and the presentation has failed. The fact that the Socialist Group is bringing this proposal here today, even if it is partial, for the reform of the Rules of Procedure, is the explanation, worth saying, of a failure in the work of a paper that has failed because there has been no political will for that to happen. There has been no political will on the part of the majority group, there has been no political will. And besides there is no political will, they have not had the courage to explain that they did not want to do so. We have been deceived by all those who participated in the paper; there has been no political explanation of what the difficulties were. They deceived us because they made us believe that we were going to agree everything possible, unlike the previous legislature, in which the Rules of Procedure were a whole and there was some sort of agreement between the parliamentary groups; I was not at the time in the Congress of Deputies, but the agreement in the debates of the Marin era was that if there was no agreement of everything, there was no agreement of anything. The first meeting of the presentation in this legislature was to decide that what we could agree, we would take it forward. And in that you have not told us the truth because you have packed up at a certain time, when you wanted to, and when there was enough chance of reaching agreements on the chapter we had decided, you have put on the table the regulation of the lobbies, which was not in any of those chapters; by the way, we have not agreed on that either. You have led us to deception consciously; you did not want an agreement but did not want it to be known that the majority group did not want an agreement on the reform of the Rules of Procedure, which was a request of all. We need to reform the regulation to regenerate democracy from the point of view of giving citizens more tools to control politicians, so that the House is more transparent, so that there is more publicity of all our payrolls, all our work, all our agendas, so that there is more transparency. The regulation must also be amended to encourage new instruments of participation - one of them is on the table today - so that Parliament can be more agile, so that questions can be raised on the same day that they can be answered. In short, so that this Parliament may look more like Parliament in any of the countries in our environment, democracies we say we admire. None of that they have wanted to do, none of that, but they have dizzy us - let me express it -; always good words, all saying that maybe next week, that we will agree to the departure of the meeting to say that although we have not made enough progress the following week we will do it... It has been a manifest deception, a deception to parliamentary groups and, therefore, a deception to all citizens. That said, the reform proposed by the Socialist Group is indeed a very timely, very partial reform on a single aspect: popular legislative initiatives. Is that all we need? No, not much less. Is that the most important thing we need? Probably not either; perhaps the most necessary thing is for Parliament to be more transparent and more agile, but it seems to be the simplest thing because a priori we all seem to agree that the system of presentation of popular legislative initiatives needs to be changed, it seems that we could agree on this. It's a small advance, but it would be a breakthrough. Hey, take the witness! If this is a small step forward and we all believe that progress must be made in this area, as they admit the initiative, let us take it into consideration and then debate whether it is presented in plenary, whether it is presented in plenary and also in the Commission, whether it is defended by the proponents in plenary and in the Commission, if it is only defended in the Commission... The steps, let us discuss them through the amendments, but let us move forward in this area because it is not that it is a demand of those who are outside, it is that - unless they have deceived us in that too - it was a demand of all, even of you, except that they have deceived us in that too. So let's admit it. I ask you to allow it to proceed, you have an absolute majority, in the debate on the amendments we will have the need to agree on the content, on how, until when, on how the proponents defend this initiative, and let us even make progress on this. That is why reforming the regulation as a whole is going to be impossible, because we are reforming it, which will be a good message not only to the respect that we owe to all of us but also a message to the citizens who are seeing us from the outside and who demand a greater degree of commitment and control for all of us from a perspective that is fundamental precisely because we represent them, because we represent the citizens and because we know that there are other forms of representation and that there are other ways of channelling citizens' concerns. Let us not be afraid to open Parliament because if we do not open Parliament, it will be democracy who will actually pay for it. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr. Centella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that this legislature is not the first time that attempts have been made to amend the regulation, which had already occurred in other legislatures, but this time it was of a special nature. This time it was not only a question among the parliamentary groups, this time when the debate to amend the Rules of Procedure begins is the result of a broader debate, a debate provoked because many citizens shout on the street that of not representing us. and because there is a demand that we have to change the way politics is done, the way people are represented. It was therefore a debate on democracy itself, so our group brought an inquiry, which we then turned into a motion, by which we proposed that a Commission should be set up to see formulas and mechanisms for making a Parliament much more open, a Parliament much more plural and a Parliament much more democratic. And that is why when the process of this reform began, it was born with illusion, with the illusion that for once the citizens' demands could be heard, that they could be heard the demands that on the streets and in the squares shouted that of "more democracy". But from the first day we realized that the People's Party was, no more or less, a very partial reform. We immediately saw that there was no will for any kind of reform because the People's Party is well equipped with a bounded democracy, a bipartisan Parliament and it was therefore very difficult for it to admit a reform that was really at the heart of the problem: that today we have a Parliament that is far from the social reality, a Parliament that is far from the demands for direct participation and the exercise of democracy, a Parliament that is not the Parliament that today the majority of the Spanish and Spanish demand. That is why we first put forward a series of proposals that were aimed, first of all, at doing that, at making a Parliament that could have more control, more intervention and also a Parliament open to citizens, with the illusion that what was being shouted on the street could also be heard in this house. But it is true that here we have met with dilatory tactics - as has already been said - tactics that have basically made the Commission's work bear fruit completely null and void, despite, and must be acknowledged, the will of the President. I have to admit, at least in order for it to appear in the 'Diary of Sessions', that the President of this House has taken this challenge seriously and has tried to the extent possible for the groups to do the work. I would therefore like to record that goodwill and interest, but from there we are indeed in a debate that is the result of a failure, a debate that is the result of the failure of the Commission's work. And that which from the first moment we thought was not a whole or nothing; we knew that everything was impossible and we thought that at least those things that were important and in which there was agreement arrived at the plenary debate; that at least the topics that were possible and that meant giving more prominence to citizenship - as has been said, that Committee on Petitions which is nothing more than a box of suggestions or the processing of the ILP - we could bring them to the plenary so that in this legislature - the legislature in which there has been more social pressure to change democracy, in which there has been more social pressure to open the Parliament, so that the days of open doors are not exclusively tourist visits but the expression of popular sovereignty - citizen participation was something more than a desire, was a reality. But the People's Party, I repeat, is at ease; it prefers a Parliament surrounded by fences, a Parliament guarded by the police, to a Parliament open to the people; it is comfortable in this protected democracy, guarded, when not a democracy of low intensity and, therefore, little can be expected and we have realized half of the parliamentary work of this Commission. From there, today we are presented with an initiative that highlights this failure and puts on the table one of the issues that we have discussed, that we have valued, that we have agreed but that today cannot be approved because it has been decided that this amendment is not being dealt with. It is a necessity, something that the Constitution recognizes as it is the possibility that citizens make a legislative initiative and that this is more than just a pose, is more than just a process and becomes something that can be really affordable and that shows that citizen participation. That is why we see this procedure relevant, which could also open the door, if admitted, to further amendments to the Rules of Procedure. We understand that popular legislative initiatives need to be modified. It is true that it has already been tried in another legislature and that there was some problem even with the Constitution itself, but, as far as possible, it was appropriate for this procedure to be opened, for citizens to see how the Constitution is not interpreted in a restrictive way; the Constitution, which is great to you, is becoming smaller and smaller. It was good that the possibility should be raised that if an ILP was brought to this Parliament, it could be defended by someone who had promoted it. The curious fact - I do not know if the proposer would like to recall it - is that an ILP promoted by trade unions against a labour reform of the Socialist Party was defended in this House in favour of a Member of the Socialist Party; greater contradiction I think it is difficult to find. Well, that is one of the contradictions that can be avoided if the ones who defend it are the ones who have driven it. Moreover, participation in the Commission is rigorous because we have also encountered the fact that an ILP promoted by the mortgage-affected platform and the unions to try to end this scourge of evictions - there are still more than a hundred daily evictions that occur - it has been processed - it is also true that due to social pressure, even that day it was dramatic, suicide included - but taking advantage of such processing to completely change the meaning and that what came out of this House was something entirely different from what the promoters had wanted to move. A law which, of course, has not only stopped evictions, but in some cases has even been able to make them worse. It is therefore true that the ILPs need to have a different meaning, that they do not become a mere process and that they really mean the possibility that citizens, who are sovereigns, can promote legislative changes. That is why we believe that the procedure should be followed, and we also think that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure should be made so that this House is really a more plural, democratic and open House so that we do not have to bear the embarrassment that causes us to be unable to even discuss here the possibility of debating the creation of a committee of inquiry because the People's Party can veto its constitution no longer, but the debate itself of that initiative. That is, a House that is not tied up, a House that is not bipartisan, a House that ultimately responds to what must be a Parliament of the 21st century. That is why we are going to support this process, and that is why we believe that the People's Party should explain why there has been no chance at this time of agreeing even something as minimal as this, why they have not shown will and above all why they are still clinging to a reality that exists only in their seats and for as long as this legislature lasts. That, together with our support for this initiative, is also our commitment that in the coming legislatures we will go this way, hoping that those who are today's opposition, if they are to be in the government tomorrow, will not change their sides and we will have to see the People's Party calling for the change of the Rules of Procedure and the Socialist Party clinging to the non-amendment, which, on the other hand, has happened in other legislatures. We therefore agree with the initiative; we believe that it is partial but relevant and that it would allow us to open the way to other possible changes. In short, it is a unfortunately lost legislature, which has more frustrated thousands of citizens who demand more democracy and millions of citizens who demand that things change. You will be able to stop it until the day the next elections are called. From there, it will be the people who put everyone in their place. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u17	Thank you, Mr. Centella. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Surroca. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Parliamentary Group is presenting a proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, which seeks to give greater prominence to the promoters of popular legislative initiatives during their parliamentary process. In Convergence and Union we share the need to reform this instrument of citizen participation. We have always advocated the need to improve and deepen everything that encourages greater involvement of citizens in decision-making. Is the Socialist proposal enough for us? We consider it insufficient. Honestly, we think we should be more ambitious. We are convinced of the need for this revision and also to update the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, but as a whole, not only with regard to popular legislative initiatives. And that, for what purpose? To improve and adapt parliamentary activity to the demands of the new times. That is the great outstanding subject and what citizens expect of us today. On the contrary, what the Socialist Group is proposing today is a timely, concrete, unambitious and limited change to the Congressional process of popular legislative initiative. Although in her speech the Socialist Group Member said that the proposal she was defending went further, ultimately the text they are proposing tells us what she says and is only talking about a reform of the Rules of Procedure to improve the popular legislative initiative. And it is surprising that I asked for it with this proposal when the study paper on the reform of the Rules of Procedure has been drawn up for months, a paper of which the Socialist Group, the People's Group and the rest of the parliamentary groups in this House are members. Therefore, we believe that it is forced and obeys the pure scenography that the Socialist Parliamentary Group defends today and here this initiative, when the coherent thing is to do so in the presentation of the reform of the Rules of Procedure. One wonders why they are bringing this initiative to debate in plenary today. The answer is obvious: because the People's Group and the Socialist Group have broken down the negotiations to push for the reform of the Rules of Procedure. That is, the two majority parties, excluding the others, intended to reach an agreement for the reform of the Rules of Procedure, but for partisan, and probably electoral reasons, have been unable to do so. There will therefore be no profound reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure in this legislature because the People's Party and the Socialist Party have not been able to defend their party interests and do not have a genuine will to reach broad consensus on this matter. That is why the paper's work has failed, as some speakers who have spoken before me have already said. Our parliamentary group, Convergence i Unió, has proposed and defended the need to reform the Rules of Congress with different objectives. First, strengthen political debate and increase citizen participation. Secondly, to improve the technical quality of parliamentary activity. Thirdly, to increase respect for the will of the legislative proposal - here we do agree with the socialist proposal we are debating today -. Fourthly, incorporating linguistic plurality into the parliamentary debate. Fifthly, to strengthen respect for minorities, especially when there are absolute majorities. And finally, to increase ethics and transparency in parliamentarianism. All this is necessary in order to renew the pact of trust between citizenship and politics, as a faithful reflection of the representation of citizens' views expressed in the ballot boxes. The values of efficiency, integrity, honesty, transparency, austerity and effective commitment to citizens must govern the rules of Congress and therefore parliamentary action. Unfortunately, we are still far from achieving this. Also, as I said earlier, we must strengthen the political debate and increase citizen participation by incorporating, for example, changes that dynamically drive the House's control of government members or bet more forcefully by electronic means that will allow citizens to multiply their participation in the debate on legislative initiatives. The Rules of Procedure must also be adapted to allow citizens' proposals to be incorporated into drafts and proposals for legislation when they have passed the full debate. Civil society and interest group approaches could also be collected and heard by setting a regular agenda item in the commissions with appearances responding to citizens' doubts, as is the case in other countries, for example, in Chile. And a forum for discussion on ongoing parliamentary initiatives could be opened on the Congress website where citizens could present their views and be referred to parliamentary groups. This happens, for example, in Catalonia with the model of the 136th seat of the Parliament of Catalonia. On the other hand, we must be able to improve the technical activity of parliamentary activity by avoiding, for example, the cumulative legislation of various themes or by facilitating means for parliamentary groups, among other issues. Convergence i Unió also defends the need to increase respect for the will of the legislative proposal in a much broader way than the proposal that the Socialist Group has defended today. With what measures? With two very clear measures. On the one hand, draft laws on the reform of an autonomous statute, if amended during the parliamentary procedure, should be able to be evaluated by the relevant Parliament or Autonomous Assembly and, where appropriate, withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure if so decided by the proposing legislative institutions. Secondly, in the case, for example, of the popular legislative initiative, the meaning of this should not be changed. We believe that, after their proceedings, they should be subject to the evaluation of the proposers, who should be able to withdraw the text if they consider it relevant. Another important issue that should be addressed by this comprehensive reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress and which the Popular and Socialist groups do not have the slightest interest in promoting is the possibility of using co-official languages other than Spanish. Precisely, as you well know, this was the main obstacle two legislatures ago to approve the reform of the Regulation. If today we do not have a Congressional regulation adapted to the current needs, it is because neither the People's Group nor the Socialist Group accepted that the use of co-official languages should be incorporated into that reform. With regard to strengthening transparency and ethics in parliamentarianism, Convergence i Unió has repeatedly advocated the need to regulate lobbies or interest groups in order to follow the lead of the legislative process. A motion for a resolution was even adopted, driven by our parliamentary group in the 2013 state of the nation debate, to regulate the registration of lobbies, but once again the Government failed to comply with resolutions adopted by this House, a failure that undermines and undermines the democratic quality and confidence of citizens in politics and its institutions. To this day there is no registration of lobbies in the General Courts or in the other institutions of the State. In the study paper on the reform of the Regulation, Convergence and Union repeatedly insisted on the need for registration. We make very clear and concrete proposals, because we believe that it is an important and effective instrument to improve transparency but also to fight corruption, but again, as in so many other things, the response of the People's Group has been silence. In short, Convergence i Unió considers the socialist proposal to be pure gesticulation. The presentation of the Rules of Procedure is already in place to address a deeper reform of the rules governing the functioning of the House. Unfortunately, the work of this paper is paralysed by the inability of the People's Party and the Socialist Party to make progress on the agreements, there is no real will to reform the Rules of Procedure. We share with the Socialist Group the need to reform...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u19	Mrs. Surroca, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u20	I'm finishing up, Madam President. ... popular legislative initiatives, but in a much broader sense than that proposed by the Socialist Group. However, we are not opposed to the process of this initiative and we will vote in favour of it being taken into consideration because it is necessary to descale the reform of the popular legislative initiative in order to encourage citizen participation in the legislative process, which should be done within a broader framework than that of the mere reform of the precepts of the Rules of Congress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. Mrs Serrano, for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is in favour of strengthening democracy by maximising citizen participation. That is why we have done it, because in the People's Party we are of doing it; we are neither of us nor of those who when we were able to do it because we did not want to do it or because we did not know it. Having said that and reading the proposal that the Socialist Group has brought, my first feelings are surprising and, if I may say so, also outraged. Surprised because what they are asking for has just been done, but it is not that it has been done during this legislature, it is that it has been approved on 30 March, less than a month ago. Besides, what you're asking us to do when you ruled didn't. You in the 2004-2008 legislature amended the popular legislative initiative and did not do so in the sense that you are claiming now, but it is that in the Organic Law 3/2015, on control of the economic and financial activity of political parties, in the third final provision, this is regulated and has been approved, as I have already said, exactly on 30 March 2015, very recently. So, surprise. And I am also surprised that you expressed your agreement when the report of that presentation was discussed precisely. This was expressed by the group that comes to propose it here today; the person who represented it, Don José Enrique Serrano, not only agreed, but also made it explicit in the debate itself saying that they were claiming it. That is to say, the group that was in agreement less than a month ago now comes to propose exactly the opposite and I hope, ladies and gentlemen - it is only necessary to take the "Diary of Sessions" of January 15th and read page 31, where Mr Serrano explains it by saying that it was also a claim of the Socialist Party -, that the Socialist Party, you, are not becoming that which is so fashionable of parties persona: that depending on the person being fashionable we go to one party and if the person is no longer fashionable we go to another. I hope that your ideas and ideologies will be supported by the whole group and that Mr Serrano will have the same ideology and ideas as the rest of you. [[Applauds]] I am also surprised that you rose very recently from the Rules of Procedure, but I am going to tell you that lately it is less surprising to me, because we are used to seeing how you have given the scare or raised yourselves from the agreements in the Transparency Act or how you have risen when we have been debating the reform of the Criminal Code or how you have risen when 70 measures have been implemented, a very important package for the democratic regeneration of this country. I am not surprised that you rose from the presentation of the Rules of Procedure, breaking the serious work and the will of all those who were there, since there was a clear will for consensus, but let me tell you that it causes me indignation that with the one that is falling in this country, with the problems that we Spanish people have, very serious problems, very quiet problems, real problems, problems of almost survival on some occasions, are incapable, by the color of the shirt or by partisan, strategic or tactical positions, not to agree to solve the problems that the Spanish people demand. You will agree with me that it is outrageous that when the bleeding of unemployment was falling, when school failure was 30%, when in the lack of transparency we are suffering some very serious cases of corruption with great impunity in many of them, when we were approving in the worst of cases more than 60% or 65% of all your suggestions, you, on a partisan issue, do not agree, do not rush to work, to solve the problems of all the Spaniards, which is what we are here for. [[Applauds]] It was already said by Concepcion Arenal, that very great writer our nineteenth-century Galician; it said that when the forces add up for good, they do not add up, but multiply. But we don't need to go to Concepción Arenal or the 19th century, we read in the "Diario de Sesiones" on January 14 of this year what Don Enrique Serrano, his colleague, said; he said exactly the same thing, that we should get everything out of our heads to help improve our political system and our democratic system. The proposal that you bring us here today has been widely debated; since the People's Parliamentary Group tabled the amendments to amend the People's Legislative Initiative on 18 December until 30 March, which was adopted. We have been discussing it for three and a half months and now you are proposing to change - look at what you want to change, look at your respect for this democracy - what was approved here on 30 March by the majority of this House, that you do not forget that we are the representatives of what most citizens want and what you also agreed on; and now you come here to change it. It is absolutely unheard of, and that is why we reject it. I wonder, why are you doing this? If you just approved with the majority that is legitimized, why are you now proposing a different thing? I understand that you can only obey a lack of ideas and do the hacking or you may be looking for the photograph permanently or you may be trying to follow in that government's wear-out strategy or you may be frightened by some populism that's been eating you on the left... I do not know, but what I do know is that it does not defend the interests of the Spanish, and as it is also something that has recently been supported by the legitimacy of this House, what we will logically ask from the People's Parliamentary Group is that they withdraw it. That they withdraw it by consistency, seriousness and responsibility. Consistency because the Organic Act on the control of the activities of political parties already modifies the popular legislative initiative, precisely by enhancing and encouraging citizen participation and the state of the channel. By consistency and seriousness, because the Rules of Procedure of the House themselves, in Article 44(4), say that when experts have to appear, for example, they do so through the committees because they are sectoral aspects, and so it has been done on unbalanced issues such as, for example, the reform of the Criminal Code or the Transparency Act, with the appearance of experts in the relevant committee. By consistency and seriousness, since the Constitution - I think you mentioned it at first - in article 87.3 it says precisely that matters which are organic law cannot be regulated by popular legislative initiative; it excludes them and leaves them only for ordinary matters whose normal course, as it cannot otherwise be, is the Commission. And also for consistency and seriousness because in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure we all agreed and repeated it to the point of satiety. This is a political forum and here comes the political debates; the technical and sectoral debates go to the Commission. Therefore, for consistency, seriousness and also responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is time for responsibility. If you have been a party of government and want to remain a party that one day has the opportunity to govern, you must begin to have the responsibility to defend the interests of the Spaniards, which is what we all care about, not just being against what the People's Party proposes, because that is what I am seeing in recent times that unites the whole left. It unites you, Socialist Party gentlemen, with the plural and varied left, with the radical and nationalist left of those who are here, with those who are not here, those of the absolutely nightly and very radical ideas, and I do not know if to the left again. But what brings you all closer together is us, the People's Party. It is, all against the People's Party. That's his ideology, that's his ideas lately. All against the People's Party. For they are wrong because we are the party of the people, we are the party of the middle classes and we will continue to work because many philosophers have already said it and I think they have taught us all: only working constancy will make the works bear fruit. I do not know whether this position of yours is the product of those populisms which come to you on the left and which cause you to be placed not only in party but again in populism, rather than in Parliament. What do you put on...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u23	Mrs. Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u24	I'm finishing up. Thank you, President. Or that you put more on the picture than on the job. Well, in the People's Party, we're going to keep working. In the PP to work, in the PP to do to grow because for that we are here, to give opportunities to all Spaniards. Let's remember everyone who put us here to work for and for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Silby in the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u25	Please, we're not in a football game!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u26	We turn to the second item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on company tax reform to replace the deduction for investments with environmental improvement objectives. [[Convergence and Union]] For your defense, Mr. Sánchez i Llibre. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Catalan Parliamentary Group is putting before this House a proposal for a law to try to reform the company tax in order to replace the deduction of environmental investments to encourage investment, competitiveness and, at the same time, the consolidation and generation of jobs. [[Convergence and Union]] This parliamentary initiative pursues relevant objectives. One of the basic, fundamental and relevant objectives of this Convergence i Union initiative is to achieve as quickly as possible the reindustrialization of our country so that it can be based and consolidated on solid foundations, such as these mechanisms which are in the direction of promoting investment, as well as to consolidate this reindustrialization with maximum standards of quality in all those aspects which refer to topics proposed and oriented by the European Union which are aimed at greater convergence with the dictates of Europe. Therefore, a first positive, relevant and important point, from our point of view, is to achieve this reindustrialization of our country in order to move towards the modernization of the productive structures on which the Spanish economy can be based in the medium and long term. There is another no less relevant and important aspect that we also consider fundamental, which is to stimulate the green economy, proposing measures so that, in the immediate future and also from a long and medium-term perspective, those aspects that are in the direction of increasing industrial pollution can be prevented. For this reason, we understand that it would be necessary for this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, through its parliamentary groups, to be able to give important support to this initiative that we are presenting. On the first issue, we believe that the replenishment of this tax incentive is an easy way for the government to align with Community mandates, facilitating the achievement of the objectives that Europe demands of the Member States with two very concrete examples that I will quickly detail. Firstly, on energy, as you all know, one of the objectives of the European Union is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% in 2030 compared to 1990. In this regard, it is clear that it is urgent to review our policies in the face of climate change in order to adapt them to the new Community objectives. In the short term, it is easy to see that one of these proposals which would help to achieve this objective is to encourage companies to invest in environmental improvement objectives on a fiscal basis. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it has been a mistake to abolish this deduction from corporate tax, as the Government has done in the recent tax reform, because, in our view, it means moving away from the policies that allow us to converge with Europe, because we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that in the coming years the European Union is going to require more investment in all aspects of the environment: investing in emission reductions, investing in energy efficiency. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us start here; let us begin today with the reintroduction of this fiscal mechanism which is in the direction of being able to promote and produce cleaner energy. The second aspect that we consider relevant is related to energy and that is also what we are going to propose from an industrial point of view. Europe calls for increasing the European weight of industrial GDP over general GDP, for us to bet on industry but to encourage sustainable industry, not contaminant, ladies and gentlemen. Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions - integrated pollution prevention and control - proposes ambitious requirements which must respect industrial activities with the greatest potential for pollution in order to achieve a high level of environmental and health protection. These requirements include the need for industrial installations to use the best available techniques, which we could sum up as BAT. Europe requires industries to apply the most effective techniques to achieve a high overall level of environmental protection as a whole. That, for practical purposes, ladies and gentlemen, for you to have information, means that some 5,400 companies throughout the Spanish State will have to make significant investments in the next eight years. How are you going to do that, ladies and gentlemen, if the state, which on the one hand wants to increase the weight of industry in GDP, reduces a number of investments in the direction of less pollution, more clean energy and more competitiveness? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not adopt this initiative with the favourable vote of all the parliamentary groups, Spain will find itself in a situation of unfair competition with other countries of the Union which do enjoy these tax incentives, such as the United Kingdom, Sweden, Germany, Norway, Belgium and so on. The third reason why we have brought this initiative to this debate is because we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposed fiscal incentive is a rapid way of reinvigorating the green economy; a stimulus that goes in the direction of encouraging, generating, consolidating stable employment and productive wealth from a sustainable perspective with regard to the environment, something that at the current juncture is very important according to the Convergence i Unió criterion. In our view, ladies and gentlemen, environmental taxation must have a dual objective, as we have proposed on different occasions, which is to generate economic incentives for good environmental management or behaviour and to discourage certain actions and/or behaviours. It is therefore essential to have a tax that discourages certain behaviours but encourages practices that enhance investments that come from pollution. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, a number of taxes, taxes, environmental taxes, taxes on hydrocarbons, electricity, gas, etc. have been generated over the past few years, and it is true that all these taxes are corrective measures, i.e. they penalise companies after pollution has occurred. The use of a policy of establishing environmental charges, taxes or taxes on the polluter is, in our view, insufficient to ensure that polluting companies stop polluting, that is, the burden has become, ladies and gentlemen, one more element of the cost of the product passed on to the customer. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of environmental charges that follow the criterion that polluter pays is not the only way to reduce the impact of companies on the environment, but quite the contrary; we must tend to focus on the implementation of pollution prevention measures in accordance with the principle of pollution prevention, as set out in a wide range of legislation, as I have just explained to you in my intervention, which are perfectly reflected in the EU Directive 2010/75, which I mentioned earlier. Environmental taxation, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of Convergence i Unió, is a complementary means of contributing to the protection and protection of the environment and is articulated around tax figures whose purpose, ladies and gentlemen, is solely and exclusively to stimulate and encourage behaviour more respectful of the natural environment. There is another aspect to this proposal for a law that we have already put forward in different parliamentary initiatives. On the basis that all that is to promote the green economy, all that is to promote clean energy, all that is to promote energy in order to be able to meet the objectives for 2030, we can incorporate a relevant deduction, in our view, such as including 10 % of the investments for the acquisition of new industrial road vehicles with a Euro-superior category, which will contribute to the reduction of air pollution. The aim is to recover a beneficial deduction to meet the environmental objectives of sustainable transport set by the European Commission and the Spanish Government itself. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of trying to correct some of the Government's approaches, as we have done on different occasions, such as in the debate on the state of the nation by our spokesman, Mr Duran i Lleida, and also in the budget debate, in which our spokesman, Pere Macias, had a magnificent speech and explained to Minister Montoro and to the President of the Government the specificities that could change the Government's thinking on environmental deductions that were so far contained in Spanish tax legislation. At that time we thought it was a mistake to continue in that direction; we failed to change it and the Government continued in the direction proposed by them to eradicate from our tax legislation 8% of the deductions that went to gross fixed capital formation in environmental matters. Both in the meetings with Minister Montoro and in the speeches to the President of the Government, we have always maintained the possibility of changing the government and the parliamentary group that supports it before the end of this term, so that we can reintroduce fiscal measures that go in the direction of increasing investment, that go in the direction of consolidating in certain aspects jobs that are key because otherwise probably these industries that are not going to be competitive are going to relocate and we are going to lose those jobs and, more importantly, from the perspective of modernising the Spanish business and productive structures, it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to have modern tax legislation, just as the countries of the European Union that I have just mentioned have. I conclude by asking all of you, above all the People's Parliamentary Group, which supports the Government, a change of approach, a change of direction so that this proposal for a law is a reality and finally we can have European mechanisms and modern mechanisms so that this reindustrialization and modernisation of our business and productive structures can be approved by many countries of the European Union. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u29	Thank you, President. I will speak very briefly from the seat to fix our position on the proposal for a law that is being brought to this House today for debate and vote by the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]] Ladies and gentlemen of Convergence and Union, we fully share the philosophy and the proposal made by your parliamentary group in this bill. Respect for and preservation of the environment, of course, must be one of our political priorities. The idea of sustainable, resource-efficient and environmentally friendly growth is no longer questioned; in our view, it is accepted and promoted. The use of environmental taxation to promote sustainable growth is therefore both a success and a policy obligation. To encourage companies that make investments that avoid pollution and are environmentally friendly by means of tax deductions is a policy that has been of the past, it has to be of the future, but it is not of the present in the Spanish State, taking into account the framework of corporation tax. It is good that these incentives, benefits to citizens, the environment and the economic performance of companies committed to these objectives are recovered. In Euskadi, the three outlaws apply these tax deductions to companies' investments for environmental purposes. Thus, for example, Article 65 of Bizkaia's foreground tax rule refers precisely to this deduction for investments and expenditure linked to projects that promote sustainable development, conservation and improvement of the environment and the more efficient use of energy sources. In addition, the deductions to be applied - as proposed by CiU's proposed law - are to investments that are considered in a list that comes from the Basque Government in reference to clean technologies, which are those that can be subsidized. We therefore agree with the content of the proposed law 100 per cent. However, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, as you well know, is faithful to our custom of abstaining from voting on those tax matters whose regulations correspond to the outlying finances of the historic territories, we will do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Anchuelo has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, political logic differs greatly from Aristotelian logic and any subsequent logic. Political logic allows approaches such as wanting to increase income but at the same time no one pays more, allows approaches such as wanting to cut expenditure and no one gets hurt, or allows approaches such as being above average; approaches that are difficult to achieve even with an absolute majority. I say this because this political logic, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, also applies to the problem that you are raising today. There is a fairly widespread agreement among specialists that there is an excessive number of deductions in our tax system, that there is excessive tax expenditure, and that about €40 billion, four points of GDP, is no longer paid each year as a result of these deductions. In general fiscal policy discussions there is a fairly broad agreement on this issue. However, when it is necessary to specify in which deductions to remove, the agreement disappears, and even some disappeared want to reimplant. It is a little contradictory to want to reduce the tax costs caused by deductions without getting rid of any and even increasing them. We share, as it cannot be otherwise, the environmental concern behind this initiative. The problem of climate change is something with overwhelming scientific evidence, it is incorporated into the European 2020 strategy and the climate challenge can be seen as an opportunity for the future industrialization in sectors related to the green economy. All that, of course, we share; the question is what are the best instruments to achieve these objectives. The instrument that you propose to us, the tax deductions of the kind that you propose to us, have important drawbacks; many specialists consider them costly and insufficient. Why inefficient? Because on many occasions companies make these investments for other reasons, legal regulations, for example, and do not change the behaviour of the tax incentive, they behave the same; the only difference that the tax incentive entails is that they reduce their costs by obviously increasing the costs for the public finance. This will be of interest to you as a SME advocate, as this type of discount is of fundamental benefit to large companies. They usually don't change their behavior and cost public finances, so they're expensive and inefficient. On the other hand, there are very different alternatives to achieve these ends. In the fiscal sphere, the orthodox thing, when there is a negative external effect such as pollution, is to internalize the cost, that is, to tax the polluter, not to deduct. That is the orthodox response in the Public Finance against a negative external effect, internalizing the cost. There are other tax policy measures. Posts to tax incentives, why don't we encourage families to rehabilitate their homes and make them more energy efficient? A proposal by the Progressive Union and Democracy is that the IBI, the property tax, should be shaped according to the energy efficiency of housing, which would, by the way, create employment in a depressed sector so far, as has been the case with construction. Out of the fiscal sphere, other possible alternatives have to do with regulation, with the change in environmental legislation and, of course, with action via energy policy. As can be seen, there are multiple possibilities of sharing these objectives more efficiently than the one proposed. On his initiative, rather than the specific proposal, we are interested in reopening the debate on corporation tax which, in our view, was closed in error when tax reform was debated in this House. We believe that corporate tax, as it emerged from that tax reform, has major problems. Firstly, there are some essential tax principles that do not respect; for example, there are some costs that businesses cannot reflect as such, which causes the tax benefit to differ from the real economic benefit. I'm thinking about the provisions for deterioration and how they're treated. Another problem has to do with nominal gains, which are not corrected by inflation. Thus, as inflationary effects are not adequately corrected, fictitious gains are being taxed. A third essential tax principle that is not respected is to avoid double taxation of dividends. Along with these essential principles that are not respected, we are concerned that the different routes of circumvention have not been closed sufficiently. In Spain we talk a lot about tax fraud, and rightly so, but we forget the tax avoidance, important and different, which is to avoid paying taxes within the law, taking advantage of the holes provided by the tax system. To close these holes, these ways of tax avoidance, in the company tax, would be interesting, as we proposed in the tax reform, if the collective investment institutions, including the famous Sicav, were to tax under a regime of transparency, that is, that the profits were imputed to the partners when they were generated in order to prevent them from indefinitely deferring the payment of taxes. It is also important to combat the interposition of merely instrumental societies. One last issue that I quote for its topicality has to do with the treatment of deferred tax assets, of which we have read again in the press over the last few weeks. We proposed, during the tax reform, greater control of these deferred tax assets, that the Tax Agency be more likely to verify that the conditions are met in order to be able to require them from the Administration. We will be voting in favour of taking account of this proposal for a law in the sense that I have expressed, as a possibility of reopening the debate on corporate tax, which, in our view, was closed in error when the tax reform was debated. Our vote will be in favour of this and, if it is accepted, we will amend the proposal that you bring us in the terms I have mentioned. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset we want to make it clear that we share the motivation that Convergence i Unite has in its proposal for a law, namely: To advance environmental policy, using the instrument of fiscal policy for this purpose. We share this objective, among other things, because our group, La Izquierda Plural, has been presenting different initiatives during this legislature; by the way, it has already been done by comrade Joan Herrera in the previous one, when the then government proceeded to the progressive elimination of tax deductions with the commitment to develop a green taxation, which was then never fulfilled. This country continues to need an environmental policy worthy of this name and green taxation is a good instrument, especially because we should not forget that Spain is one of the countries of the European Union with the lowest green taxation, 1.83% of GDP, according to the 2013 Eurostat data, only behind Lithuania. Only that should cause us to reflect on the value given to the environment in this country. So far we have come to our coincidences about environmental taxation proposed by Convergence i Unió. Again, in an old speech, it contrasts the environment with industrial competitiveness, and that is to have a concept as old as the possibility of using the environment in competitive terms. That obsolete view was already made clear at the time, when CiU was in favour of the abolition of the fluorinated gas tax, with the argument that this would mean a decline in competitiveness, when it is clear - and the European Commission expressly says - that a green tax and this type of action is not only the most efficient way for sustainable development, but also for job creation, bearing in mind that the great employment site of the 21st century will most likely be the one for sustainability. We openly disagree with a fiscal policy that has been retaliated and constantly changing, and also with the orientation of the proposals and policies sponsored by CiU in relation to corporate tax. Let me make a general reflection here. Spain has one of the world's most cadaverous and unjust tax systems. It is variegated because of its low collection capacity: 8% less of GDP than the EU average. That means that if we could close that gap - which is certainly not a matter of a day or a year - and put ourselves on the average of the European Union, this country would have about EUR 8 billion more revenue to be able to develop many policies. In addition to being cadaveric, our tax system is profoundly unfair, because to fiscal insufficiency - which is already unfair in itself, because it does not allow to practice public policies, social policies - it joins that it continues to fall too much on the incomes of work and consumption, to which it penalizes, while protecting the incomes of capital, property or taxation on societies in different fields. From this point of view, in this policy of defiscalization and corporate tax, CiU has played a leading role and I want to recognize it: whatever government was in Spain, of the color it was, CiU has always used its capacity of influence to influence that tax system and to do so, in our view, more unjust and insufficient. It has done so directly affecting citizens and also affecting the whole of autonomous communities, in Catalonia, because if the cake is small, the part of the cake that belongs to the autonomous communities is also so; otherwise it is very difficult. In this sense, it would be good for CiU to stop crying in Catalonia about the consequences of the policies it has voted on, when not driven from Spain. I think I remember that the last time was in 2007, in relation to corporate tax. It was you who were most interested in reforming that tax, as always, for such a laudable purpose as today, which is to take precedence over small and medium-sized enterprises and reduce their real rate. And they did, they lowered the real rate of corporation tax on small and medium-sized enterprises to 25%, but as a result of this policy of making corporation tax a thing similar to gruière cheese - forgiveness: emmental, which has more holes than cheese - they have become co-participants and co-protagonists of a phenomenon by which SMEs currently have a legal rate of 25% and an effective rate that comes little to 22%, when large companies, with the legal rate of 30%, have an effective rate that has come to fall in some financial years or in some financial institutions up to 10%. In that sense, I can only agree with Mr Alvaro Anchoelo, when he said that just one of the problems of our corporate tax is that process of permanent erosion, via deductions, which is constantly occurring and which does not change the behaviour of companies. As with social security bonuses and deductions, all it does is reward companies that had already made a decision on many occasions to make that cost lower. From that perspective, they now present us again with this same approach and they do so within a few months of this Congress having passed a company tax law that certainly closed the debate in error, but it did so with an approach that was to reduce the legal rate at the cost of significantly reducing the possibilities of deduction in the company tax. But if in December the legal rate is lowered and in April you are already trying to incorporate new deductions, the process is a new erosion factor of the effective rate of corporation tax. I sincerely believe that this is not the approach. If you want to discuss this issue, let's discuss it and let's do it in full: corporate tax and environmental taxation. We are going to do it in its entirety, not in pieces: today I bite from here, tomorrow I bite from there and, in the end, there is nothing left to bite and, when there is nothing left to bite in taxation, that means that the capacity of the State to decide is limited. We understand that this is the reflection that needs to be done. However, as you propose a law and today we are discussing your simple consideration, we will accept the invitation and we will vote in favour, saying at the outset that the only thing we are in favour of is that it is discussed and then, in the content, we will put forward our proposals. From that point of view, I would simply like to recall three axes of our approach: first, if we want to move forward with the European 2020 strategy, which you cite in your explanatory statement, the first thing that must be avoided is that there is fiscal dumping, defiscalisation downwards, using the environmental argument and, therefore, a process of European fiscal harmonisation also in the environmental aspects is essential. By the way, alert: If you push forward the famous transatlantic trade and investment treaty, it is very likely that what happens is exactly the opposite, that harmonisation is done, but not by political institutions but by the market and down. The second point to be retained from the point of view that we are putting forward on this subject, I say again, is that we cannot have a debate on the whole, on the whole, because the final result is a result in which the objective that is said to be maintained is absolutely disfigured. The third axis of our environmental tax policy is that a balance must be struck between those environmental policies that encourage certain behaviours and those that discourage them. You give us a reflection in your bill which is as follows: Whoever pollutes the most pays more and who pollutes the least pays less. However, when it comes to putting this issue into practice, you only find it in the operative part where the polluter pays less, but there is not a single paragraph that says how it is expressed that the polluter pays more. Besides, it seems to me that you have misunderstood that maxim, that you confuse it. Their approach could lead us to confuse the principle that the polluter pays for the one who can afford to pay is allowed to pollute and pollute, and that certainly cannot be addressed in those terms. In any case, I will take the positive side, and that is that we are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, although, as I say to you, we have a radically contrary position both to your approach to corporate tax and to your understanding of environmental taxation. But, well, that's what the debate is for, to discuss. The People's Party now has the floor. I hope that you will not be afraid to reopen that debate in favourable terms and that I will vote in favour of Convergence and Union - let me ask you very carefully, that you vote in favour of Convergence and Union - that is, that I will vote in favour of the right to be able to discuss this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. For the Socialist Group, Mr González Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u35	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this proposal for a law which today brings us Convergence i Unió on the reform of corporation tax to replace the investment deduction in environmental protection, which must be remembered that it was eliminated by the government's tax reform. It will count on the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as an expression of the will to carry out a reform of this tax figure on environmental taxation. We would support certain reductions in tax burdens on companies if we were to build both a fiscal policy that would promote greater environmental sustainability and efficient growth in the use of our natural resources and we were to meet the objectives of the 2020 strategy, which seeks to harmonize economic recovery and dynamism such as that which Spain must achieve with the care of the environment. The protection of our environment and the search for greater entrepreneurial sensitivity in its relation to the environment is an unquestionable objective and becomes one of the great challenges that Spanish society has in the immediate future. As a general principle, the Socialist Group advocates a tax system capable of raising sufficient revenue to finance public welfare services and boost economic growth, but we must remember what has happened in this crisis. First, public revenue has fallen significantly, more than six points, falling well below the euro area average; in no other country in our environment has such a drop in income occurred. Secondly, Spain is one of the countries in the European Union with lower incomes than GDP, as other groups have already said. Specifically, Spain collected 37.5% of GDP in 2013 compared to 46.6% of the euro area. With the current level of collection, it is very difficult to reduce the high structural deficit and public debt while at the same time recovering the quality of public services provided by our welfare State. As a third observation, corporate tax, in terms of collection, is ranked 18th in the European Union, with 2.2% of GDP in 2012. Corporate tax revenues were EUR 18,713 million in 2014, down 6.2 from the previous year. This tax has become the fourth tax figure in terms of collection capacity, behind excise duties. The recommendation made by the European Commission is the reconsideration of deductions, which reduce effective taxation in a very significant way and make SMEs, despite being subject to a lower rate, pay a higher effective rate than large companies. The Socialist Group therefore proposes a thorough, comprehensive and rigorous tax reform that affects the main tax figures, a reform that seeks to increase collection in a fair way, to bring us closer to the European average, to guarantee the welfare state and, above all, to correct the main imbalances, such as the excessive concentration of collection of labour income and the excessive kindness of the tax system with which great fortunes accrue and with the financial system. In the tax discussed here today, the company tax, our objective, that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is to establish a minimum tax on corporate tax for large companies, so that they help to recover the collection and stabilize it over time and really reform the structure of the tax, eliminating and reconsidering the deductions that primarily benefit large corporations, reduce effective taxation in a very significant way and make SMEs, despite being subject to a lower rate, pay a higher effective rate than large companies. As a general principle, Spain needs a deep tax reform and, above all, it needs to boost fiscal citizenship. At the very least, it is doubtful to qualify the recent reform of government corporation tax as a structural reform, rather than a mere reduction in tax rates. To affirm that the reform recomposes the basis of the tax affected by numerous exemptions and deductions of all kinds and, at the same time, to foresee a decrease in collection constitutes, in our view, an insurmountable contradiction to the reform of this tax figure. The Government itself recognizes that the approved reform implies a drop in the collection of some €3 billion, that is, a tax gift in full to the big corporations, while the self-employed are partially reduced by the withholdings that the Government itself had raised, but in no way are their taxes reduced. The consequence will be that the corporate tax in 2016 has had the lowest weight on GDP since the beginning of the crisis. It is therefore a tremendously unfair policy, which increases the economic gap in our country, which is already large and growing, through the transfer of income and welfare of workers and from a significant part of average income to high income and large corporations. The reform of the Government forgets two major elements of progressiveity: one, including wealth; two, the fight against fraud. Yes, here in the latter the fight against fraud and tax evasion are the great forgotten. This is because the fight against fraud has not been a priority for the Government throughout the legislature. In March 2012, by Royal Decree-Law 12/2012, the Rajoy government decided a fiscal amnesty, executed by Minister Montoro. The consequences of the tax amnesty are clear. It is a scandal that a government in the twenty-first century will bring to a democratic parliament a law that will be used as a gateway so that white-collar criminals and tax evaders can get away with criminal and fiscal rositas. What is truly serious and shameful is that a law passed in a Parliament can serve as a shelter for criminals. The unfair thing is that the fraudsters paid up to 3% of the regularised. The democratic regeneration that our country needs goes hand in hand, among many other issues, with the knowledge of the more than 30,000 defrauders who took up amnesty. Everything seems to point out that the amnesty was designed for friends and leaders of the People's Party: Barcens, Rat. In conclusion, with the amnesty, the Government opened a door to the defrauders, a door that was widening and expanding throughout the process. Here, at parliamentary level, it must be said very loudly that it is necessary to know the list of persons who have taken up the tax amnesty. The Rajoy Government can and should do so by political decency and without amending the General Tax Law, because it only has to comply with the provisions of article 95, paragraph 1 (e), according to which fraudsters can be known through the establishment of a commission of inquiry in the Congress of Deputies, a commission that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has been requesting since 2012. The People's Parliamentary Group has a magnificent opportunity to support the establishment of a commission of inquiry, because with the Rats, with the Barcens, Rajoy's fiscal amnesty, if it has demonstrated anything, is that the People's Party's summit has made politics its private business. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u36	Thank you very much, Mr González. Mrs Madrazo has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to refer to the words of the Socialist Group's spokesman from this rostrum, because he has made an absolutely torturing use of this Parliament and that is a deception to the citizens. He has spoken of an issue that is not the one we are dealing with right now and that is fraudulent use, bearing in mind that what we come to this Congress is to work to solve citizens' problems. [[Applauds]] Entering into the initiative that has been brought, which of course has nothing to do with the words that the spokesman of the Socialist Group has said, which will then be discussed at another point, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to stand against the initiative presented by CiU for a matter of coherence, obviously, coherence with a tax reform that entered into force, as you all know, on 1 January 2015 and that has entailed a substantial revision of our tax system and in particular of our direct taxation on both the IRPF and the company tax. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall in this rostrum what were the objectives of that reform, what was the spirit that inspired it. The fiscal reform of the Government, as we said at the time, has a primary and priority objective: to consolidate economic growth and job creation. And why has such a tax reform been raised now? Because this government has been able to correct the drift of economic recession and massive job destruction that the Socialist Party has brought to us, and it has achieved this with an economic policy based on sound management of public accounts and a continuous process of reforms that has allowed now to be the time to be able to lower taxes on citizens and families, now that we are leading economic growth and job creation within the European Union and now that Spain has been able to stand up thanks to the efforts of all. In particular, what changes has the Government brought about within this tax reform in the corporate tax system? The main one, which you all know and which has been mentioned in this rostrum, has been to substantially lower the nominal corporate tax rate, which is now 28 % from 1 January 2015 and will be 25 % from 2016. In this way, we make business in Spain more attractive and place our tax rates below our main trading partners, such as France, Italy or Germany. At the same time, in this context of rate reductions, corporate tax has been simplified. It has been simplified by eliminating tax deductions that are ineffective and inefficient to achieve the objectives for which these tax incentives were raised. The Spanish company tax before the reform, as has already been mentioned here, was characterized by the existence of high nominal rates in relation to the countries in our environment, while very low effective rates, especially for those companies that were able to optimize the set of deductions envisaged in the company tax, which, normally, Mr Socialist Group spokesman, were the large business groups, which with the Socialist Government, as we have denounced from this rostrum on many occasions, managed to pay zero taxes in the company tax. And they have little shame coming here to criticize this government's fiscal policy! This configuration was totally unfair and inefficient and therefore the philosophy behind this reform has been to simplify tax deductions while significantly lowering corporate tax rates, encouraging both domestic and foreign investment in our country with rates that are more competitive in a context of growing international competition. In particular, in this context, the deduction which CiU proposes to re-implant: the deduction for environmental investments disappears. The People's Parliamentary Group does not consider it appropriate or reasonable to resubmit this deduction, firstly, because Spain, as you know, is part of the European strategy on the environment, within the new climate and energy framework for the period 2020-2030, and that strategy has also been committed by the Government of Spain. This implies increasing environmental requirements, so it is not necessary to encourage tax behaviour which in the not too distant future will be compulsory for all economic operators. Secondly, we understand that the care of the environment and the sustainable use of our resources is an objective that we all share in this House - as many speakers have already said - but we think that it should be another type of incentive and another type of policy that should guide this type of action, because the use of tax incentives as a tool to change certain behaviours that are not environmentally friendly is not always effective, and tax incentives, ladies and gentlemen, find their main justification for the existence of imbalances that exist in the market, and they should be based on principles of neutrality in the behaviour of economic actors. On the other hand, the use of tax incentives to encourage such environmental investments has traditionally been questioned, mainly because the data show that the multiplier and beneficial effect of such investments does not usually compensate for the reduction in tax revenues that these deductions produce, because, according to the 2014 data, for example, this deduction affects only 298 taxpayers, in addition to an amount of EUR 12 million, which in the corporate tax structure accounts for only 0.4 % of the total tax benefits of the same. However, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government do not give up on initiatives that encourage appropriate use and sustainable and environmentally friendly use. We think it is appropriate - and some spokesmen have said so in the rostrum - that a real reform of environmental taxation should be addressed in the future, eliminating the wide variety of taxes from the autonomous communities and local entities, so as to encourage environmentally friendly behaviour. It should be geared towards establishing tax bases based on potential CO2 emissions, so as to ensure the neutrality of our tax system. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group will vote against this initiative, not because we do not agree with the need to take care of our environment, which of course we are; not because we are not as eco-friendly as the most, which of course we are, but we understand that enhancing the respectful and sustainable uses of our resources must come from the hand of other policies, such as those being launched by the Government of Spain, for example with the Spanish Enterprise and Biodiversity Initiative, to promote corporate social responsibility of private entities in the conservation of our natural heritage. I would also like to make two considerations with regard to the taxation of environmental expenditure, because in the reform of corporate tax, expenditure on environmental action is considered deductible, provided that it complies with a number of requirements that will be developed on a regulatory basis. Therefore, this type of incentive for investment or environmental action is not entirely eliminated, and even the Ministry of Finance is considering the possibility of introducing some kind of tax incentives, some kind of deductions related to investment in our mountains, to forestry investment in the parliamentary process of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say that the Government is clearly committed to the preservation of our natural heritage, and is promoting initiatives that promote that conservation, but we think that other policies are more effective in achieving the objectives that we all share in this House, also the People's Parliamentary Group, and that go far beyond a deduction on corporate tax. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group will vote against taking this initiative into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs Madrazo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u39	We turn to the third item on the agenda concerning non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the open government strategy. Mrs González Veracruz has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me as an open government activist to present this non-legislative proposal on the national open government strategy today. But it is also very important for my parliamentary group, because my group believes that the exercise of democracy must necessarily be better, stronger and more mature. Let me humbly say that I believe that this debate is very important for this House, the house of sovereignty of the people. It is our responsibility as representatives of the people to change institutions. At a crucial moment we have to live up to what the citizens are demanding of us. I am not saying anything new when I say that Spain has suffered the greatest institutional crisis since the arrival of our democracy. Political disaffection is brutal. Citizens speak of politics out there, but they do not feel represented by us, by the people they vote for, and the truth is that I am not surprised; I am not surprised that this has been even more serious and intense in the last four years by how this government has developed the exercise of absolute majority, how they have changed a model of public television, plural, to what we are seeing right now, or how they make the decree-law, one Friday after another, their way of doing politics. The further the Rajoy government moves away from democratic best practices, the more necessary it is for Spain to assume an open government strategy. It is urgent and necessary. Many of us have believed this for a long time, but now it is even more because of the context I describe. We must build among all a stronger democracy, a much better democracy where together citizens count. That is why urgent reforms must be thoroughly addressed. The Government, public administrations, the legislative branch and politics have to be opened. There's nothing left but to open up. We have a duty to move forward at the same speed as citizens and society do. It turns out that there are empowered citizens who believe, who participate, who grow together, and the representatives of the public we have to be at that level and at the level of what they ask of us, which is ultimately part of politics and decision-making. And because we have to open it, we have to rethink our institutions, and we have talked here today about the reform of the House's Rules of Procedure. We have to recover without fear the real raison d'être of the administrations, which is the vocation of public service, the attention to the citizenry. And honestly the connection every day is weaker between these administrations and citizenship, something we cannot afford. If we take into account the arrival of the Internet, of social networks, the collaborative initiatives of citizens increasingly linked to politics, it is essential and urgent that we connect and that citizens also collaborate in this that we love, which is politics. For all this it is essential to push forward the state strategy of open government. I stop for a minute to define, to ask us what the open government is. It's a philosophy, it's a different way of exercising political leadership with people. This is what many mayors in their municipalities have done for many years. This is what Manuel Pérez Castel, who was the deputy and mayor of Albacete, with the participatory budgets, did from the very beginning, or how he led himself at the time in Barcelona. And it is also those steps that have been taken in our country as when, during one of the socialist stages, the declarations of property of members of the Government, this House and the Senate were published. Open government is a close government, a government for and with citizens, that listens and fears no one's participation. Open government is empowering citizens and accountability of politicians, governments and administrations. It is ultimately transparency, participation and collaboration, and above all, ladies and gentlemen, open government is possible; it has been doing so, exercising and leading Obama since 2009. We also have successful experiences in our country, more local and smaller, but also very representative and pioneering as was the one led by Patxi López in Euskadi with the Irekia platform, and others in Navarre, Extremadura or also Andalusia. It was in 2011 with the Socialist Government when we were part of the International Alliance for the Open Government, and where we assumed and subscribed to the declaration of the Open Government; when the Aporta project for data opening and re-use of data from the public sector was created. But today we have to run more - and explained the reasons previously -, and of course it is not worth covering files or setting up portals - which may seem to be - that are neither open nor participatory nor transparent, as is the transparency portal of the Rajoy Government. The Government's plans of action are also insufficient, because, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the open government is not e-government, it is much more. By the way, in e-government you have also reduced and reversed positions in participation and e-democracy in the four years you are in government. In short, real open government requires real transparency; and transparency is not a gesture when you have inexplicable cases of corruption; and transparency is not a portal like yours that has nothing to do with a portal of transparency, and in which you have certainly not yet published more than two hundred high offices that by law - by the Law of Transparency - had to have their declarations of property on that same portal. Transparency is active and non-passive transparency. We defend publication and active advertising, from the point of view that citizens' right to information is a right that is not fully respected in our country. Transparency and real open governance is a data-opening strategy, and it is a portal of transparency in conditions, which cannot be a mere repository of documents. And open government is also participation and collaboration, for what is essential is an open governance platform that goes far beyond what is the transparency portal, which is a platform in which you can have a great citizen conversation with the public authorities, that is, that you can evaluate programs, policies and public services, that you can participate in the General Budgets of the State, that citizens can promote their own initiatives, and that of course you can interact with public offices, as some of us already do individually and by conviction. In short, it is not a punctual thing to respond one day to an email or an initiative; it is to incorporate all the talent that exists in our society into the development of public policies and of the State itself. There are many things I could say and little time I have: training plans, fighting the digital divide, culture of participation, but above all, and the most important and the biggest deficit I see for the open government in the 21st century in our country, is political leadership. Where it worked is because there has been political leadership since the presidency of the government: in the United States with Obama, in Euskadi with Patxi López, and here for Spain to be at the forefront of democratic countries is what we would need. Today there are many young people listening to us in plenary...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u41	Mrs. Gonzalez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u42	I'm done. One second. There are many young people listening to us at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies and they are sure that this sounds like free software, data opening, and open formats. Perhaps many of your ladies and gentlemen have not yet heard of it, but the citizens practice it. There is a new culture of participation that this Congress has to analyze and that the Government has to push. That is why I ask for your support for the rest of the groups, and with the little hope that I have left of the People's Party, because I understand that those who do not know how to govern today, with the democratic quality that is supposed to be, with much more difficulty will understand what the open government is. But I still ask you to understand it, to listen to us, and to feel like developing a real strategy of open government that puts our country at the forefront of participation as it deserves. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs González. Only one amendment has been tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group. Mr Esteban has the floor for his defence. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u44	I have five minutes, Madam Vice-President, but I think I will have some left, because today I have no special desire to intervene from the rostrum. With so much mouse scandal, wind, etc., that we're seeing every day I've got a bad body, and on top of that we need to talk about citizen participation. Anyway, I don't know, the caching and low-seriousness that this country is showing with the news coming up, I hope at some point it changes. [[The Lord]] It seems to me to be a timely initiative, and although I believe that the Government has taken an important step with the transparency portal, that is certainly not all and is very partial, especially with the possibilities offered by technology today, and because it has to be an interactive process and a process of turn-around, and that is what the Socialist Group is proposing. On the one hand, what is done is right, but it will have to be perfected, the portal has to be more flexible and easier when it comes to accessing it and locating information. To that end, the advice that is overseeing it should be heard, and those measures that citizens request the Government to implement should be implemented effectively in the shortest possible time. Today an open government demands much more than all of that, requires interaction with citizens, not only that they can collect data, but that there is a dialogue, that there is feedback between them. We should therefore be effectively talking about platforms of interaction, of accountability, and getting some sort of permanent space of interaction between the Administration - in this case it would be the General Administration of the State, but the same can be said of other administrations, starting with the autonomous communities - and citizenship so that we come to a participatory and co-responsible management in public action, where the principles of transparency and accountability are the winners. With our rather prolific amendment, we have tried to develop the points of the Socialist proposal, and this has been understood, and it seems to me that it will be accepted with a small modification to specify a matter semantically. If we need a platform to inform, to show and coordinate citizens' contributions, to promote bi-directional dialogue, so that citizens can address the public administration, both by proposing initiatives and by expressing themselves about what the administration proposes. Participation must be reflected in the definition of public programmes and policies, in the evaluation of policies and the quality of public services, in the elaboration of general provisions, in promoting regulatory initiatives, in making allegations and observations in public exposure proceedings, etc., which are open to them. In this sense, a series of participatory processes must be articulated through that platform, and a series of structures must be created. That is what we have tried to put forward in a schematic way - although not briefly, because it was impossible - in our amendment, so that it does not remain only in generic statements, but that a specific and determined direction is called for on this citizen participation when it comes to putting it into practice by the Government. That being said, this is a non-legislative proposal, and although it is not stated in our amendment because this is not the case, I would also suggest to the Government in voice that it take account of some of the initiatives being carried out, such as that of the Basque Parliament. This is a non-legislative proposal, perhaps we will approve it, hopefully, then we will know what the Government has done, if it has implemented it, what steps it has taken, what it has decided, how it will do it, if it will contrast it with Parliament. In the Basque Parliament, in relation to all motions and non-legislative proposals, every three months the Government is obliged to make a report that is written up with all the steps and progress - or no progress - that the Government has made, so that there is also an appearance before the parliamentary officials. I would encourage the Government - well, I am now giving it to the next Government - to endorse this initiative so that this Parliament truly knows that parliamentary mandates, which we already know are not going to the bulletin and do not have legal force, but that they do have an ethical and political mandate, are truly fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Position-fixing round, Joint Parliamentary Group? [[Pause]] Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. The transparency instruments created or those we have today are much better, and those of participation are virtually non-existent. The three basic principles for changing the model of opacity and being able to speak of open government are: transparency in government activities, recognition of the effective right to participation in decision-making, and the establishment of instruments for citizen collaboration in the implementation of public policies. See if there's any way forward to go. The natural consequence of addressing these reforms would be that we would have a more critical citizenship involved in the day-to-day work of the Government, and that it would mean having tools to fight corruption, discretion, and misuse of public funds and resources. But who wants that? We should all wish this, that is, the Legislative Power, since we are the representatives of sovereignty and those who exercise the control of the Executive; all of us. That is, this Parliament should be given the mandate to force the government to operate under active transparency, the release of data, and free access to public information. The Legislature is interested in knowing - or should be interested in - what citizens want, what they think of the laws being processed and proposed, what laws they want to improve. We are talking about the establishment of a new form of interrelationship between the Administration, the entities, the public agencies and the citizenry, based on transparency and oriented towards the establishment of the so-called open government. Do you think that's what this government offers with its transparency portal? In Compromís we believe that there is substantial room for improvement between what is and what should or could be. One of the blank spaces is precisely that of participation, and one of the examples to follow could be, for example, that of the White House. All you have to do is look at your website. To enable mechanisms to receive proposals, to dialogue, so that people can have an opinion on the laws being dealt with, all this is not futuristic science fiction; it is very simple and happens in countries such as Brazil or the United States. To what extent does this Government take citizenship into account in decision-making processes? With the polls, with the CIS? How can a government justify its decisions if it does not listen to the needs of citizens? To participate, to collaborate, to engage in public affairs are the necessary ways to relate, and they have to cement the pillars of a solid democracy in which people feel at ease, identified and represented, but to do so it takes another way to govern, and surely another Government, one that knows how to listen and dialogue, and not the one that knows how to impose and abuse permanently by its parliamentary majority: the tyranny of the majority that we see every week in this plenary, and that turns its back on a large part of the population; a Government that never listens is a bad Government, but tells all this to people who rule week after week in a coup d'état, who does not dialogue, who systematically rejects any proposal from the rest of the groups, and who sometimes even gives press briefings from a television, is to try to dialogue with a Government that is afraid of people, of the question or the dialogue, and is more comfortable among the shadows. He seems to have much to hide, like the Government of my land itself, that of the Valencian Generalitat, with more than twelve judgements in his possession from the High Court of Justice and some from the Supreme Court, who condemn him for not allowing access to the information requested by our group, by Compromís, and who continues to deny the information over and over again. We will therefore vote in favour of this proposal and of any other proposal aimed at opening the institutions up to citizen participation and control, transparency, open formats and ultimately more democracy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. We will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal because we share the importance of these ideas of enlargement and improvement of the quality of democracy, including the call for open government. It seems to us that it is a matter that is discussed in depth to see what legislative developments it must have in order to bring about something of a higher quality than what we have, which by the way remains very low. I did want to make a couple of comments about this. It seems to me that we should not be dazzled by the importance of technology, particularly digital and the Internet, to improve democratic participation if we do not first improve other conditions sine qua non for such reform and quality of democracy to be real, and not a mere technological dazzlement. Why do we want a much better portal of transparency than the existing one - which seems to me to be a very reasonable objective and there are them in municipalities and autonomous communities - if we continue to have a profoundly unjust electoral law, an electoral law that does not give equal opportunities or participation in active politics in Spain? This is the case, and I want to say this to the Socialist Group, which presents this, because you do not support the proposals for reform of the Electoral Law, which is completely inconsistent, I have to tell you with political loyalty. As long as there is not the same opportunity for any party or group of voters to run for municipal, autonomous and general elections as for already existing parties, we will be talking about a fiction, we will continue to have a deficit of democratic quality in what is a fundamental law that needs to be improved and reformed. So far you - I am referring to the Socialist Group - have not been through the work, and I would like to take this opportunity to remind you because I hope that, like other proposals you have made - like the previous one on popular legislative initiatives - you will go in that direction: that you now do care about improving a democracy that, as I say, is of very poor quality. During the process of the Transparency Act and the Party Financing Act we agree on the vote with you. That seems to me to be very good, but it also seems to me that they have to be more demanding, because they are an important and powerful group to introduce certain types of amendments or certain types of legislative guidance. The truth is that the Transparency Act we have is absolutely insufficient. It would be funny if in a country where the Data Protection Act is much more - already discussed during the processing of this law - hard and decisive for the political activity that the Transparency Act we continue to make small reforms that do not follow up on the issues. With the Party Financing Act it happens exactly the same. If we are talking about open government, that is, more democratic quality, more participation, we must first and foremost worry about a fundamental issue: equal opportunities in political action. The Party Financing Act has worsened equal opportunities in the financing of political activities, because it actually enshrines greater dependence on public subsidies, determined treatment by credit institutions, and greater difficulty in obtaining private funding. So that too must be changed. There are also things that we can do and that the Socialist Group has not so far supported too much. You were comparing Patxi López with Obama being in favor of Patxi López. In the United States and other countries that are models - in this, in other things not, but here yes - it is not only mandatory to publish the agendas of congressmen, senators and even of the president of the United States, who is public - enough to enter the White House website and anyone can see it - it is even illegal to use private mail for public activities. You have not even supported us when we have asked for the publication of Members' payrolls and agendas on the Congress website to be mandatory. This must be done; I therefore cordially propose that you join this insistence of ours so that we truly live up to what is being done in the United States and in other countries from which we have much to learn in this. Finally, I believe it is important for us to be consistent in all political action. Do we want open government? Great. Do we want more citizen participation? Great, but this is incompatible with corruption. I do not understand that they have presented and succeeded in having been elected president of the Parliament of Andalusia, Juan Pablo Durán, who has been condemned - twice, moreover; first by the Bank of Spain and then ratified by the National Audience - by the looting of Caja Sur. How is this compatible with the open government? How is this compatible with greater citizen participation? We don't think it's all about putting better web pages. It is necessary to remove defendants from the lists, to put an end to the stumbling blocks that mean judicial privileges and to put an end to all these distortions that the Spanish democratic system has, which make it as weak and as vulnerable to corruption as the Electoral Act, the bad Transparency Act and those laws that are above fundamental laws do. In short, we will vote in favour with great pleasure and, if there is any luck, we will accompany you in the legislative process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the United Left Parliamentary Group: The Plural Left, Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u50	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the proposing group and, in particular, the partner who defended the initiative. We think it is a good initiative and we are going to vote in favour of it. Obviously, from our point of view, any advanced democracy should necessarily function in the form of open government. As in a democracy, the role of the opposition, of the opposition that is here in this House or of the opposition in the municipalities is regulated, there should also be by law an open government regulation and any government should be obliged, I repeat, to function in a certain way. It is therefore an opportune debate because we are fully faced with a new social paradigm, where citizens, entities, political parties and elected officials can interact in planning, genesis and in the evaluation of government policies in a fluid way. This is what we call, yes, open government, a concept to which three main principles are linked: transparency, participation and collaboration. It must be said that open government is much more than a portal of transparency and much more than the correct use of electronic devices. Open government, ladies and gentlemen, is an attitude, a way of doing politics; a democratic way of doing politics; and possibly, if it does not act as open government, democratic quality is reduced, it is less. Therefore, open government, I repeat, is quite an attitude. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is currently suffering from the greatest institutional crisis since the advent of democracy. There is no doubt that continuous cases of corruption - sometimes several arise in a week - only aggravate the state of emergency in which we find ourselves. The response of the governments cannot be either to increase the opacity or to deny the obvious signs of exhaustion of a system and of a way of functioning where decisions are made against the citizens, against the very programs of the parties that have presented themselves to the elections and, of course, on many occasions we do not know who has taken them, if the parliaments, if the markets, if the troika..., but, in all that process, where are the citizens? That is a question that, functioning as an open government, we would have to answer many days of the week. Yes, those decisions are sometimes made by people who hide behind a plasma TV, but I can assure you that this is the opposite of an open government, absolutely the opposite. And the response to the institutional crisis we are experiencing can only be one: more and better democracy. More and better democracy, no laws gags or coups of the Penal Code. Nor are these adequate responses to functioning as an open government. And the People's Party government, with the support of the People's Parliamentary Group, brought forward in this legislature a law on transparency that some political groups - all but the People's Parliamentary Group - described as disappointing and insufficient. Therefore the loneliness of the People's Party, which currently governs us, to pass the Transparency Act is also a fact to take into account. Obviously, we are in a situation, in a legislature, with a government that has legislated a law on transparency but that still works in an opaque way and a government struck like no other, long and long ago, by the issues of corruption, something that is creating enormous social alarm. To finish. I said before that we are going to vote in favour. We need an open government. Perhaps, as one speaker had said before, this Government may no longer be able, at this stage of the legislature, to behave and to be an open government. That is why the best step we can take to have an open government is to change government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Paramo. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u52	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the non-law proposal is fully in line with the long-standing policy of the Government of the Government of Catalonia with the Government Obert programme, implementing Law 19/2014 of 29 December of the Parliament of Catalonia, Law on transparency, access to public information and good governance. Also with the actions promoted by the Government, before and after the law and within its framework, in a large number of municipalities with their portals of transparency. It is also in line with the most advanced thought streams in the matter. The Catalan Parliamentary Group can therefore propose to vote in favour if clarifications are made aimed at demonstrating the necessary respect for the competences of the autonomous communities. [[Convergence and Union]] The non-legislative proposal that we are discussing is well thought out; therefore, it would not be so much a question of modifying anything as of adding a reference to institutional and territorial pluralism. Information and communication technologies, because of their potential, cannot become a threat to the necessary autonomy, diversity and identity of different administrations. Above all one cannot break the virtue of proximity; one cannot pretend to distance the citizen's interlocution. It is necessary to maintain the idea that who asks, who listens and who answers is not in the hands, as happens in large corporations, of a machine but that they attend and respond people close to and familiar with their immediate surroundings. [[telephones, electrical and so many others]] This issue in a plurinational State is of particular importance and we are in favour of the transfer, but we are also in favour of proximity and respect. It would be disloyal for the central Government, once again abusing its legislative capacity, to impose a system that would serve to nullify the great effort that the municipalities have been making for years and, of course, it would be desirable for any territorial and state administration to assume the principles of non-interference in the communication and transparency efforts that they are already developing. [[small, medium and large]] The State cannot appear as the supreme vigilante over the autonomous communities and local governments. Neither as a vigilante, as a kind of Big Brother, nor much less as a promoter of the idea, among other things because the General Administration of the State comes late, as it has passed in so many levels of services to the citizens, also in the exercise of transparency. The principles that this non-law proposal defends are positive, very positive, ladies and gentlemen; we share them, but we are concerned. The reasons have not given us throughout this legislature, both because of Catalonia's own competences and because of the necessary municipal autonomy within the framework of the European agreements on this matter, but it would also not be acceptable to continue along the lines of the current central government in the sense of inviting, in quotes, the autonomous and local administrations to use technological solutions of their ownership: single portals, electronic systems of citizen care, contracting platforms, digital signature systems, etc., with the loss of autonomy, decision-making capacity and visibility. To complete well the non-legislative proposal, ladies and gentlemen, we urge the Parliamentary Group of the PSOE to introduce a reference, either in the preamble or in the operative part, of the kind: without prejudice to the autonomous powers and with the cooperation of all administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Paramo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest challenges facing public officials today is a society that is increasingly demanding governments that respond effectively to their needs but also that do so in an open and participatory manner. In that regard, this Government and the People's Parliamentary Group, on whose behalf I take the floor, understood from the outset that transparency and accountability should become the fundamental pillars of their political action. I would like to make two premises clear, which I understand to be true, before we examine or proceed to examine the proposals of the proposal put to us by the Socialist Group today. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that Spain has been part of the international initiative of the open government partnership since 2012, together with sixty-three other countries, and, according to the membership of that initiative, our country already has two open government action plans and will adopt the third one in 2016. The second of these open-government action plans contains ten commitments and, with the fulfilment of those commitments, we will be able to move forward on the path already initiated and we will also be able to work on new areas that will enable the consolidation of open-government in our country. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is not true in our opinion that Spain is in the queue in terms of open government, and it is not true because, in terms of both electronic administration and participation rates, Spain is above the world average, above the average in its region and above the average in its subregion. Moreover, if we stick to the specific indicators on transparency and public sector information, according to the indicators of the European Union itself, the state of open data and the re-use of information puts us in second place in Europe of open data, ahead of countries such as France or Germany. Having said that, do we have to keep moving? Yes, certainly, and for that reason and in that direction we are working, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the specific measures proposed in the proposal, I would like to point out that in Spain, with a number of normative provisions in force, practically all of what is included or requested is covered. I am referring to the Transparency Act itself, the Public Sector Information Reuse Act or the Citizens' Electronic Access to Public Services Act. Reference has been made, Mrs González, in her presentation to the pillars on which an open government is based, which are: transparency - it is true -, collaboration, participation and, for some sector of the doctrine and some authors of recognized prestige, accountability. I would like to dwell on the first of these pillars, which is transparency; welcome to acknowledge it, because from this government it has been promoted and these Courts have passed the first law on transparency of Spanish democracy and yet it did not count on its support. You know your ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group that we are negotiating the law with you, that we have incorporated much of your amendments, and yet at the last minute you decided not to support it. You will know your reasons, but surely it was for partisan or opportunistic reasons. Under the Transparency Act, a transparency portal has also been created for the first time in this country, which has much to do with the portal that you ask for in that non-law proposal and in which a great effort has been made to aggregate and add all the information that the law requires the General Administration of the State to lend to the citizens. The portal, of course, is not closed, it is not a finished project but it is constantly evolving and open to all improvements that can be made or that are understood to be decisive both by those who maintain the portal and by society who want to improve it. In addition to all this information, if the citizen does not have enough with what he has there, he has the right to request more information, and the Administration will provide it. In fact, to date, more than 1,500 questions have been raised by citizens and answered by the Administration. This already implies greater citizen participation, but participation can also come through other channels. An important aspect, in our view, is citizen participation in the legislative process. In this regard, the preliminary draft law on common administrative procedure of public administrations greatly expands the participation of citizens and of affected groups in the process of drafting the regulations, as can be seen in the transparency portal itself, in the normative section under preparation. Another example of greater participation, which I believe has been referred to this afternoon from this rostrum, is the amendment established to regulate the popular legislative initiative, allowing the person appointed by the committee to promote the initiative to appear in the committee of the Congress of Deputies responsible for the subject, prior to the debate under consideration. As I say, ladies and gentlemen, all this is progress, although much remains to be done - it is true - but that is the line on which we are working. And if the pillars of an open government are transparency, collaboration, participation and accountability, believe me that both this government and the People's Parliamentary Group are working on that. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cortés. I give the floor to Mrs González to express the acceptance or rejection of the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u56	We accept the amendment to the PNV, but with a very concrete compromise that we will bring to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u57	All right, Mrs. González. This shall be taken into account in the vote. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the introduction of a family perspective into all public policies. [[File number 162/001205]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u58	We continue with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the introduction of a family perspective in all public policies. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Román has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet the members of the Family Watch organization present in this Chamber to hear the debate on this non-legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group on the introduction of a family perspective into all public policies. Welcome and thank you for that struggle to improve family policies. For my group, the guarantee of family protection has been and is a fundamental axis of action. In fact, in recent years it has promoted various initiatives in favour of this institution. President Rajoy said in the debate of the state of the nation this year 2015 that it is fair to recognize the role of families and the dedication of parents because they are building a country and guaranteeing our future. Ladies and gentlemen, the family is the fundamental cell of society. The family is the origin of our society and without it the rest of social and political institutions would not be possible. But the family is much more, because everything that is important for the integral development of the person is transmitted within the family, which plays a decisive role and guarantees coexistence and social cohesion. The family is the true core of solidarity and basic support in the face of difficult circumstances such as those we have experienced in recent years, but not only in these years, but in the history of this country, our society, this country and this society have been supported by the family. This important role of the family remains irreplaceable and must therefore be protected and supported by the public authorities. We are aware that the family is the present, but it is also the future of our society. It is essential to recognize, value and promote the role of the family in society, removing obstacles to its full development and supporting them as necessary for the fulfilment of their ends. Families assume irreplaceable responsibility, making a decisive contribution to the well-being of individuals and society. In order for the family to be sustainable, measures are needed to sustain it. This is an important idea. Measures must be implemented for the sustainability of the family, for the sustainability of society. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is aware of the valuable contribution of the family, on the one hand, to all the components of the family, and on the other hand, to society, and believes that the policies and programmes dedicated to it, as the Government of Spain and the People's Parliamentary Group have done in recent years, need to be strengthened. The Government of Spain, of the People's Party, has adopted or developed economic reforms in recent years aimed at economic recovery and job creation as a guarantee of the welfare state; has prepared reports on the socio-economic situation of the spa family; has prepared the Strategic Plan for Children and Adolescents; the National Action Plan for Social Inclusion; and has increased, for example, the budget for families and children by 20.5 per cent in 2015 compared to the previous year. The Government's fiscal policy has improved the taxation of large families, persons with disabilities and single parents, has extended the status of large families while one of their children is under the age of twenty-one or twenty-six years if they continue to study, and currently, and within the Government's social agenda, it has announced that it is developing, in dialogue with autonomous communities, with family organizations and with the third sector, the Comprehensive Family Support Plan. Since this House, the People's Parliamentary Group has promoted non-law proposals on the protection of the large family, on family-responsible enterprises and has also supported initiatives by other groups, for example, the non-law proposal on the legal, social and economic protection of families. All this shows that the protection of the family is a fundamental axis of the ruling action of the People's Party, of the ideas, of the ideology of the People's Party. People's Party policies focus on people and the family. Furthermore, we believe that family policy is not an aggregate of social policies, but a genuine public policy, which must ensure the cross-cutting of family promotion and protection in all public actions. As I have tried to argue in my intervention, this policy is a priority on the political agenda of the People's Group and reaches all families, I insist, all families, preferably those who have a situation of greater vulnerability: large families, families with persons with disabilities and single-parent families. We believe that we must continue to implement measures to support this institution, cross-cutting policies to support the family. This cross-cutting approach reaches, on the one hand, the different administrations - local, autonomous, central of the State - each in its own competence, and also this family perspective must be given to all the policies of a Government: employment policies, reconciliation of working and personal life, protection of motherhood - the difficulties that a woman encounters at the most beautiful moment of her life, such as bringing a new life to the world - consumer policies, protection of the most vulnerable consumers, pension policies, policies of real equality between men and women, protection against violence against children - should be noted in the very unfortunate event that occurred yesterday in Catalonia - gender violence, violence that sometimes takes place in the domestic sphere, policies of disability, fiscal, educational and health policies. All these policies have to be seen from a family perspective. I'm closing up. We believe it is positive and necessary to introduce a family impact analysis into all the legislative projects promoted by the Government, to include in the normative memory accompanying the draft laws and regulations the assessment of their impact on the family, a prior analysis of how the new legislation will affect the family, just as the different legislative projects currently are assessed from an economic, environmental or gender point of view. Mr President, I conclude by appealing to consensus and calling for support for this non-legislative proposal. Fundamental policies in a society transcend legislative mandates. Support for the family is one of those important policies that must transcend in time and must have broad support in the House. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Members. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u60	No amendments have been tabled to this initiative, so we are moving on to position-setting. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to step in from the seat for the sake of brevity. Allow me, Mr President, to begin this very brief speech by sending on behalf of my party and myself a sincere hug to the family and friends of Professor Abel Martínez Oliva. And I would also like to show my solidarity and that of my party and all our support for the educational community of the Joan Fuster College in Barcelona. Nor do I want to pass up this opportunity for this debate on the family, on the initiatives of the party that supports the Government to orient public policies towards the perspective of the family, to remember the humanitarian drama that these days is living with horror in the Eastern Mediterranean. We're talking about hundreds of dead people. We say that it is our brothers, people like us who for different needs and obligations break their bonds of family and national origin and risk their lives precisely to aspire to live safely with family and to have vital projects with more freedom and peace than those who are suffering in their own countries. For them, too, I want to have a memory. My party and I welcome public policies inspired by the family perspective because we believe in them, but it is also a necessity. I am no expert, but sociologists agree on the objective fact of the importance of the family as an institution - the spokesman has said very well - but also on the need to urgently promote different conditions. Don't tell me which ones because I wouldn't have time to describe them either, but to fight what some have called - something that's coming - the demographic winter. As I say, I welcome the proposal of the People's Group, which in this case calls on Congress to urge the Government to introduce a family perspective into all public policies so that families are taken into account in a cross-cutting manner in all areas, and I would only like to make not two recommendations, but two suggestions. One of them, as stated in the explanatory statement, is to approve without further delay a plan to support the family, as communities such as Madrid, Valencia, Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla and León already have in place, and to do so urgently. Secondly, they intend to introduce a family impact analysis into all projects. Well, I would tell you not to put the accountant to zero; let us not do it from the projects that are coming, but take advantage of or implement this perspective in those projects, in those proposals that we are already seeing in this House and which have open deadlines for the processing of amendments, in which I am sure we will be able to include this new perspective. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u62	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. There can be no lack, as it could not otherwise be near the electoral period, of a new initiative of the empty populist People's Group as it alone, an initiative with which the People's Group becomes again a palm of the Government. Let's talk about family. In Spain having children for many people is simply being a hero or a hero. There are no public children's schools from zero to three years, so many people have to choose between raising or working. They do not exist because the plan for the creation of public children's school places has been stalled. This, in addition to the reduced maternal decline, leads us to a truly desolating picture. When they exceed three years, the cost of school books, dining rooms and buses is high, so when they are integrated into the educational stage these costs are added. School hours have nothing to do with the working hours of the vast majority and, thanks to this Government, the possibility of reducing the working hours and adapting them to school hours is no longer possible, as their work reform limited the reduction of childcare hours. They can begin, if adopted, as will be expected, by adapting this legislation to the family. The maternal discharge is very small and the paternal anecdote. The four-week extension is another of his unfulfilled promises; more work, five times delayed and the new date is 2016. So come here and breastfeed as far as family support is concerned, what do you want me to tell you? To the facts I refer, the birth descends and the deaths already exceed the births, and they are conclusive data. People have no children or fewer than they would like, because being a hero is not easy. The family is not an abstract concept that you can come here and say you're going to protect it. The family is parents with very ridiculous paternity permits; the family is mothers who have to leave their jobs to care for their children; single mothers and single parents who have to rely on grandparents to support the family economy and continue to raise. They are also those families who have been evicted and still owe money to the bank, thanks to their refusal to approve the payment. Children who do not have to pay for school books are also family members. They are also the families who, thanks to their policy of inequality, have to go to the charity eaters. Perhaps those are not the families you were thinking of, because they are invisible to you, but they are families, families in capitals, heroes and heroes to whom this government turns its back over and over again. Therefore, do not come to us with good intentions and do not waste our time, and legislate once and for all for people. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my group to say that our vote will be in favour of this initiative, not because we want to support it, but because we cannot vote on anything else, because we share the content of its operative part, which, on the other hand, is nothing more than a huge obviousness. But, apart from this circumstantial coincidence, we do not want or should give a letter of nature to the banalization and to the interested instrumentalization which in its expository part make such an important element for social cohesion and for the full development of people in their individual and social aspects as the family is. In the proposition of law, not in his speech, shines for his absence, except in a laconic point contained in the first paragraph, the role that the family plays in today's society, not a word about the whys, about the values it represents, about the reasons that have prompted them to formulate it, probably because at the time when they drafted it they were unrecognizable. It is true that his speech has in some way mattified what was set out in the operative part. Ladies and gentlemen, your initiative distills auto-bomb and self-complacency and transparents a clear will to use the family, once again, as a bold weapon, I understand that with a blatant electoral interest, preferably also against the majority opposition group in its work in this field in the periods of socialist government. Meanwhile, they expect the rest of the parliamentary groups to make palm trees out of their superficial singing in the sun and their theoretical argument in favour of it. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen. With the Basque Group don't count. We're not gonna wave them. We will vote in favour, but we will not wave them. They will also be faced with our denunciation on every occasion on which they intend to implement populistly such essential issues as this. No, we will not consent, because the family in our society is a basic institution that is essential because of the importance of the functions it performs and which have to do with socialization, projection and mutual aid, the transmission of patterns of behavior, values, traditions and a long et cetera, which, due to lack of time, I will not quote, especially when the social, economic and labour changes of the last decades have profoundly affected this institution that has had to evolve and redefine to fulfil its functions and, at the same time, remain an area of personal realization for its members. As a result of these changes, different forms of family organization have emerged. The traditional family is joined by single parents, numerous, reconstituted, foster children, adopters, same-sex parents, intercultural ones. Each and every one of them, in view of what some sectors of Spanish society think, must be recognized and supported by both society and the institutions as a whole, because the essential and fundamental thing is that they fulfil their basic functions, that they do so with quality and warmth - I think I have told you on another occasion - and that the relations that develop in them are based, above all, on respect and affection. Moreover, at this time of crisis, the family has accentuated its status as a reduced protection, unconditional assistance to its weakest members, having to cover on too many occasions the huge holes that its governments, the popular governments, have laid on the pillars of the welfare state and also combat the perverse effects that its neoliberal cuts have caused to the people who integrate it. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, being aware that the current crisis is not only economic, but also cultural and values, we must - and I reiterate - emphasize that within families the values of solidarity, sacrifice and effort are being strengthened and transmitted to future generations, in the face of the culture of the ball, the easy success and corruption that have prevailed in certain policies and in the face of the absolute lack of the least ethical behavior of an important part of the members of these popular governments who are committed to defending. Furthermore, your initiative seems to us to be absolutely inappropriate in this sitting today, in a session in my dark opinion, in the opinion of my group, black, like today's. It is as if they want to whitewash with this childish initiative that dark layer that the corruption that affects them has spread over their political making. I too find it rather curious - it has been pointed out here - that they have not had time in more than three years of this legislature to defend it before this House. We're practically finalizing it. Once again, you're late and bad. I also find it very difficult to urge a Government such as the State to implement family policies in a cross-cutting manner. The theme sings a lot. What I'd tell you is, don't grow up because you've seen too much of your ear. We are only a month and a half away from the municipal authorities and these issues are regularly coming here. In conclusion, we will always find ourselves in the loyal debate of all those initiatives that value the family as a catalyst for the best of the human being, as an engine of growth for society as a whole. This, unfortunately, seems to respond to interests of a different kind than under no circumstances will we applaud. In any case, we shall vote in favour. I really believe that they have missed an extraordinary opportunity to devote the vast amount of time they have to defend a deeper, more value-added initiative. That's all I had to tell you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Lleonart.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Román, let us go to the data to generate a context in which we understand why from our group we believe that the proposal that you bring us to the House today really does not concern ourselves with what you say: the family. During the PP's years of government, according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary and Bank of Spain, there have been about a quarter of a million evictions in Spain. How many families have you left on the street according to this data, Your Honor? During the PP's years of government, according to labour force surveys, the unemployment rate has been around 24.43 % on average, losing more than half a million people working on the road. How many parents, who are the sole breadwinners, have been left out of work according to this data, Your Honor? During the PP's years of government, according to a report by Save the Children in 2014, we have found that more than 38% of Spaniards arrive at the end of the month with difficulty or with great difficulty. Since 2007, the number of families receiving no income or subsidy has doubled. It's about 2 million homes. Severe poverty, the poverty suffered by families receiving less than 300 euros a month, affects no more or less than 3 million people and 12% of Spaniards. In 2014, there were nearly 3 million children at risk of poverty and social exclusion; 24% of our children live below the poverty line, one in four. And 46% of children living in single-parent families live at risk of poverty, almost half of children in this situation. How many families, how many children are at risk of exclusion according to this data, Your Honor? We cannot talk about family without talking about evictions, job creation, child poverty and work reconciliation. There has been debate in this House on many occasions. We, since UPyD, have brought initiatives to curb evictions and boost second chances. In fact, it was the first initiative in this regard that was debated in this House in 2012 with the vote against the PP. We have proposed a simplification of contracts that allows, among other things, to change jobs while maintaining seniority, ensuring compensation in case of dismissal, which we also defended since UPyD in 2012 and also obtained the vote against the PP. And even in 2014 we presented a GNP to end child poverty and the risk of exclusion, in which we also called for prior evaluation of the impact that legislative measures could have on the poverty and well-being of children, to which they also opposed from the People's Party. Whenever we have brought to this House from Union Progreso and Democracy measures to help the Spanish families, we have found ourselves, in their case, with the most absolute rejection or the most absolute condescension, promising that they would do something they have never done. Why don't we also talk about conciliation? You may not find the concept alien to you, but of course most Spanish families do, not because of what it means, but because it is out of reality that applies to their lives. In order for a family to be able to maintain itself today, with the low level of the existing wages, its members have to work on schedules that at all times contemplate that they can take care of their children. What kind of family concern is that, Your Honor? But let's keep generating context, please. Answer me Your Honor: Family, what is the concept of family that the People's Party has? The Catholic, the Apostolic and the Roman? What's the PP talking about when he talks about family? Heterosexuals married by the Church or through the Civil Registry or municipalities? And what about single-parent families? What about gay marriage? Yes, marriage, the one you took to the Constitutional to prevent equal rights to equal assumptions. And what about lesbians who want to have children by assisted reproduction using the National Health System and cannot access them because the requirements exclude them, as has been seen this weekend in the media? What about the legislative difficulties in being adoptive families in this country? And what happens in this country when a family has to face situations with dependent people? As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of doubts that we would like them to be clarified before we tell them what the meaning of our vote will be. We need to know whether by families they refer to all those collected by the current Spanish legal order or, on the contrary, we are talking about a family conception that is only due to ideological issues of the People's Party, and we would also need to bring to this House the commitment of a budgetary accompaniment that really demonstrates that their concerns are accompanied by a real bet by the Spanish families. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u68	For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, I have the floor, Mrs García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the elections have indeed arrived and everything is rushing, it is becoming urgent, the pantomime is being resumed that the group that supports the Government urges it to comply with its obligation and to legislate or make rules to help or improve the quality of life of citizens. It must be explained well and slowly so that citizens can come out of their astonishment and begin to understand what we are talking about. Therefore, I will repeat, the Group of the People's Party calls on the People's Party Government to legislate to improve the lives of citizens, when both in Parliament and in the Executive, have been tired of taking measures to cut and undermine rights and services that affect the well-being of citizens, i.e. of families. I could call it Kafkian, but, as you feel a certain aversion to culture, let's leave it in that the People's Party simply pretends to laugh at the face of Spanish society. [[The lady]] Almost four years have passed and, like Saul fallen from the horse, the People's Party Group discovers the light of a comprehensive Family Support Plan that casually developed a People's Government in 2001. You've had time to find out, ladies and gentlemen! It also discovers that during the socialist term this plan did not have continuity, and hence the evils that haunt us. Come on, you repeat the: and you more, but you have not been able to put it in motion or talk about it so far. And in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, inequalities have grown alarmingly in our country during this parliamentary term, especially for families, who have suffered harassment and the destruction of their restrictive policies, evictions and their consequences, which are always dramatic and sometimes the deaths caused by them. This is a real shame for the country. The health system and education are in a state of sharp decline, the social policies cut short and the few progress made towards the achievement of the State of well-being that has virtually disappeared. Child poverty advances unstoppable, youth migrates in search of a future beyond our borders. We suffer unknown percentages of social exclusion so far, policies aimed at equality between men and women have their pale reflection on a role and almost zero in budget. And the reforms that you have introduced, the latest on the voluntary termination of pregnancy, are also a further setback in what we are telling you. From this rostrum my group has repeatedly denounced labour poverty, thousands of people who still work do not arrive at the end of the month, and which affects families, not to mention energy poverty, which also, what a coincidence!, affects families. And do you know what you have done to these initiatives? Vote against, look away, or state that they were already doing what they were being asked to do, even though it was simply a lie. The only truth, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, is that you hastened to rescue the financial institutions, to cut budgets for social policies, to continue with even more harmful labour reforms for workers and consequently for the families of this country. You are going to leave a country to all families, let us have the concept of family that we have - some of you are not clear - in a catatonic state, and now you come and ask us for support to urge the Government to quote the following textually: Introduce a family perspective into all public policies, so that families are taken into account in a cross-cutting way in all areas and introduce a family impact analysis into all legislative projects that the Executive promotes. Great, ladies; late but great; we think it's great. Who can refuse to vote such a generality, even if in our case we think you are masters in the art of not saying anything and then doing less? I remind you of something, you approved and accepted the gender impact, and you do not comply on many occasions, ladies and gentlemen. We have not tabled any amendments, ladies and gentlemen. We do not want nor can we be accomplices of such iniquity. We imagine the indignation of thousands of families when they learn of such a proposal which has as its sole objective, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to regain a vote which is leaving them. We are going to abstain from what I said earlier, although the body - indeed, ladies and gentlemen - my group is asking us to vote against. And we will because we have shown - we have - that we believe in integral policies...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u70	Mrs. García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u71	I'm done, Madam President. ... and because we are convinced that it will be others, we will be others from the left, who will implement those comprehensive policies that we have defended in this legislature and in previous legislatures. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u72	Thank you, Mrs. García Álvarez. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow the Members of the Group of the European People's Party to be sceptical about the content of their initiative. Perhaps raised at the beginning of the legislature would have political value because it would allow the whole House to commit to those objectives, but raised when the legislature inevitably has months to live, it seems to us more like an exercise - legitimate, on the other hand - of political propaganda by the People's Group than a will to develop a solid family policy in this legislature. Moreover, when again from the rostrum the spokesmen of the People's Group announce that family plan, ending April and a few months after the end of the legislature, we can give less credibility to that plan. Clearly, if the Government were to adopt it, it would not be able to start it. Therefore, by sharing much of the rhetoric about the value and importance of the family in our society and by sharing the need for family-oriented public policies, my group today cannot applaud or support this initiative of the People's Group because, among other things, we would be legitimizing a policy that, in spite of what the spokesman for the People's Group has told us, has not been geared towards supporting families. Some of the spokespersons have quoted these realities and I'm going to focus on some of them. I see Mrs Ciuro, who has been a promoter in this legislature of the extension of paternity permits, following the momentum and commitments that Mrs Pigem had made in previous legislatures with the previous majority. It has passed the legislature and that enlargement of one of the instruments that in the rest of Europe allow us to improve family support policies, which are broader permits for men to commit to our family responsibilities, continues undeveloped, and that is family policy. If I may, I myself have defended from this rostrum what in the rest of Europe forms a hard core of family support policies, which is a universal child benefit from Social Security. The majority of the Group of the European People's Party has voted against this initiative, which, I insist, is in line with what central right and centre left governments are promoting in the rest of Europe. Also, with regard to one of the main instruments in terms of service to families, which is a support network for families with children from zero to three years, the People's Party Government has liquidated the so-called Education Plan, which allowed funding not only for zero to three years, but also for the non-compulsory part of the education system from three to six years. We can share the rhetoric. Moreover, I believe that today the rhetoric about the family understood in the broad, plural sense, which incorporates many realities of the families - to which the spokesman of the Basque Group has referred - is no longer part of the discussion between seats on either side of the Chamber. The challenge, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, is to know what policies are effective in helping families to care for their children, what policies are effective in enabling families to have the children they want, what policies are ineffective in helping those families in a situation of increased risk and vulnerability, what policies are effective in reducing the risk of child poverty, and we have not been able to discuss these policies because the Government has decided to renounce them. As I said to you, I am very sorry that my group is not going to vote in favour of this initiative. I hope that those who touch us in this House in the next parliamentary term will be able to move from rhetoric to real politics in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u74	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Pérez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nor does my group cease to be outraged, not to be surprised, by the cynicism of the People's Group when it brings such initiatives to the House: to urge the Government to introduce a family perspective into all public policies and legislative projects. Mr Román knows, this is something that Mrs Mato announced in February 2012, and he also said that they were doing so. What were you doing? What reports? What prospects? From what families? Do you know that there are different types and what in some positive impacts can do negatively in others? For example, tax amnesty. I'm sure Mr. Rat's family looked great, but most of the families in this country don't think it looked great. [[Applauds]] He did not want to refer to those other families of which other groups have spoken here - I am sorry to repeat -: to single-parent families, to extended families, to those grandparents who have to bear children and grandchildren with a small pension, to a family with all its members unemployed and without benefit. That same month, in February 2012, we were told here a family plan that has also been announced later by the two Secretaries of State and the newly appointed new minister in January who came to this House to tell us about it. Where's that plan? Do you guys have a budget yet? Are you going out here without blushing to defend the family or the families, Mr. Román? That's what they have to tell us. It seems that you have not yet learned that there is no family, as you have continually spoken here, a family as you seem to conceive it, as a vertical and autocratic model. They come out here after meeting yesterday with an association that deserves all the respect and with which we have met other groups, for what? To, hiding behind the associations, make you forgive the three and a half years that you have been in government by punishing Spanish families, the measured classes and the working classes? That's what you do. They come out here without blushing and we have to endure being told - after the inequality they have generated, with more than 728,000 households in which no income comes in - to defend families. The nearly three million unemployed without any benefit will be someone's family, Mr Román, I say. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, there are almost 1,800,000 families with all their members unemployed and they go out and talk about what they're talking about here... You protect the family while punishing families, while punishing people, while punishing the citizens of this country, who are the real holders subjectively of rights and duties. [[Applauds]] From that perspective, did they ever think about how it would affect their labour reform to the family of a worker over fifty who was fired for their reform? Or how would it affect the vital projects of so many young people, and not so young, who have come out of that economic exile and who have had to leave their partners and their sons and daughters here? Have you thought about how it has affected that you have eliminated social security from caregivers, mothers and daughters in many cases, and have also reduced the benefit for caring for your dependents? Are those families? Are you worried about families? And the elimination of subsidies and scholarships in education? Did they think of the elderly and their families when they removed almost 500 medicines from public funding from a pen and also imposed co-payments and reposes? With what perspective do you look at the elimination of budgets against gender-based violence and how this affects so many women, their children, their families, this society? [[Applauds]] Tell me how it benefits families in this country to eliminate access to assisted reproduction for families made up of women only. Oh, now! It's just that they were thinking about the others, that's what really happens. Don't tell me you didn't think about how it would affect the seven million households in Spain that are in energy poverty their rise in light, gas, VAT, IBI, their disastrous fiscal policy. Did you think of the families who lost their home because you sold it to a vulture fund? They only intend to discharge their responsibility; in the absence of a state - which is what you like - in the absence of public policies...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u76	Mrs. Pérez Dominguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u77	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u78	No, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u79	...of subjective rights, of quality public services, that families carry with the task of co-heriting and sustaining what you have destroyed. For sample, a button. This is the family that worries them: Valdemoro, a municipality in Madrid. [[shows a graph]] All these contracts are family: husband, wife, brother-in-law, cousin... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u80	Mrs. Pérez Dominguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u81	Not to mention Extremadura, where the first was the employment of the family of the President of Parliament, of President Monago and of one other councillor or mayor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u82	Mrs. Pérez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u83	Those are the families you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u84	Mrs. Pérez, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u85	Motions arising from an inquiry. As I said to you, we are going to see a motion this afternoon, the motion resulting from urgent questioning of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Finance and Public Administration on the development by the Tax Agency of its judicial assistance functions in cases affecting the People's Party. Mr Saura has the floor for his presentation and defence. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, successive scandals in the Spanish Public Treasury damage the Spanish democratic system, its institutions and also the fiscal conscience. The latter has to do with the fact that the former economic president of the Aznar Government has acknowledged that he defrauded the Treasury once he accepted the tax amnesty, and most likely also defrauded when he was Minister of Economy and Finance and Economic Vice-President of the Government. In the face of these scandals in the Spanish Public Treasury and the no reaction of the Spanish Government this Parliament cannot look elsewhere, this Parliament has to make decisions and that is what the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings here this afternoon, to the House: a reprobation by the Minister of Finance and Public Administration for the continuing scandals that are taking place in the Spanish Public Treasury. The reasons can be varied, they can be multiple, but we would like to focus them on three weight reasons. The first has to do with the fact that the Government does not want to publish, hidden, the name of the 30,000 defrauders who took up the tax amnesty. Ladies and gentlemen, your publication will be unstoppable on the basis of the broad, majority consensus in the opposition, i.e. of most of the groups in this House. Its publication will be unstoppable. This morning a high office of the Government of Spain, in a frivolous manner, said that the information available to the Government, the information available to the Tax Agency, is the potato store. A frivolous expression, in my opinion, which cannot be pronounced in a Parliament like this. Citizens, who are paying more taxes than ever in the history of democracy, have to listen to that information, and we wonder, if they have so much information, how it is possible that the names of the 30,000 convicted and confessed fraudsters of the tax amnesty could not be known. [[Applauds]] So what we are asking from the Socialist Group is for that list of shame, that list of the 30,000 fraudsters to be made public. For what reasons do we want it to be made public? First of all, there will be no genuine democratic regeneration in our country until we know that list of defrauders. And secondly, because the publication of the list is the greatest guarantee that there will never be another tax amnesty in our country. It is the biggest vaccine in Spanish society so that a tax amnesty in a democratic Parliament will not be re-approved. For those two reasons, we want the list of fraudsters to be published. And we set out a double path. The first is the approval of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. That is a way forward, as the General Tax Act in its article 95 shows. Another way is to amend Article 95. This week, the draft amendment to the General Tax Act entered the House. Let us put forward an amendment to amend Article 95 to include the publication of this list. There are no problems of retroactivity in the rule, the Constitutional Court has made it very clear, it has stated that it would only be unconstitutional in the case of passing a sanction with retroactive effects, and publishing this list is not a sanction, it is transparency, it is advertising, it is betting on democratic regeneration. Then there is no problem; moreover, according to these theses which say that there would be a problem of retroactivity, the Government itself in amending the General Tax Law would be involved in this issue because it is talking about fraudsters in final judgement, that is to say facts that passed before the adoption of the norm. Or he's talking about the Moors. It is the same case; we are talking here about convicted and confessed defrauders, then there is no legal problem. In addition, there is a contradiction, the Government wants not only the list of fraudsters to be published, but also the list of the late ones to be published. I mean, we're going to know the list of the late ones who have cash problems and we're not going to know the names of the 30,000 fraudsters who, as I say, are convicted and confessed. [[Applauds]] That is the first reason, the most important reason for progress in democracy, for supporting democratic institutions; nothing more and nothing less is at stake than that, no parliamentary majority is at stake, ladies and gentlemen, no government is at stake, democratic institutions, democracy are at stake. That is why it is important that this list is published because, otherwise, Spanish society will not forgive us, I would not forgive Parliament today for voting against publishing that list, the list of shame. Secondly, we believe that the institutions have been used for the benefit of the PP, as has been the case with the obstruction of justice by the Tax Agency, the political direction of the Tax Agency, so that the People's Party is not convicted of a fiscal offence. And finally, the third reason we argue for this reprobation is that fiscal amnesty, which has been unfair, which is a trip to darkness, which is indecent and which is also an unnecessary, ineffective fiscal amnesty, because there are other instruments - the public finance inspectors themselves say - for having raised 1.2 billion euros when 2 billion euros had been budgeted. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u87	Thank you, Mr. Saura. An amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, and Mr Anchuelo has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u88	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialist motion addresses two main issues: the first has to do with the role of the Tax Agency in judicial assistance functions in cases that particularly affect the People's Party and in particular the Bárcenas-caja B case of the PP. In this country we have already become accustomed to anything, our threshold of tolerance is very high, but if we did not have that threshold of tolerance so high we would have been surprised by two unprecedented actions of the Tax Agency in the Bárcenas case. The first has to do with the tax doctrine so peculiar to the Tax Agency that it taught us that donations, even if they are illegal, even from entrepreneurs who may be benefiting from public contracts, are exempt; that is, they are entitled to a tax benefit even if they are illegal. This makes no sense and that is why Union Progress and Democracy asked the Directorate-General for Taxes for a report, we did a consultation on whether this made sense. I would like to highlight this because much has been said about this report by the Directorate-General for Taxes, but it has forgotten where it comes from. And the Directorate General of Taxes said what seems logical, that donations, in order to be exempt, have to be legal and have to be dedicated to the party's own purposes. The second unheard of action is when the judge requests a report, recalculations are made and the Tax Agency initially refuses to comply with the judge's request. These are truly unheard-of actions that can only be understood to have had no greater political consequences because of the high tolerance threshold that we already have in our country with these kinds of issues. The second issue dealt with in the Socialist motion concerns the tax amnesty and its implementation in the specific case of the last few weeks, in the Rato case. On the Rato case I want to recall something important: today everyone is tearing their clothes for the Rato case, but if it wasn't for a Bankia case opened at the National Hearing by UPyD, Mr.Rato, instead of being accountable to justice, would be quietly enjoying the rents of his various boards of directors. That's important to remember today. But the Rat case is a particular case of a broader problem, the tax amnesty. Today many people tear their clothes: who could think that Mr. Rat was benefiting from the tax amnesty?, who could think that Mr. Pujol was benefiting?, who could think that Mr. Bárcenas was benefiting? Anyone who had bothered to study the tax amnesty when it was launched could think of that. Read in the "Diary of Sessions" the speeches of the various opposition groups, including mine. Read what the Finance Inspectors said. What did they say? That the tax amnesty, in addition to being a mistake because it deteriorated the fiscal awareness of the Spaniards, allowed for the regularization of cash and, by permitting it, facilitated money laundering. That would make people welcome amnesty in cases of corruption, including political corruption. In other words, it is not bad luck; what has happened is the logical consequences of the bad policies that have been implemented. That is why we believe it makes every sense to ask for Mr Montoro's reprobation - by the way, he should have appeared this morning instead of sending the director of the Tax Agency to act as a shield -; it makes sense to ask for his reprobation for the facts I have previously reported. There is another important issue that is addressed in the motion. There is a conflict between the right to confidentiality of tax data and the right of citizens to know whether there are public offices that have defrauded the tax system or whether there are candidates for autonomous, local or general elections that have defrauded the tax system or engaged in money laundering. That is why we believe it makes sense to make this information public, because there is a conflict of interest and tax secrecy cannot prevail over citizens' right to know, among other things, whether they are voting for candidates who have been involved in money laundering. Our amendment seeks to complement what the Socialist Group is calling for in order to systematically investigate the origin of the funds of the 29,000 persons admitted to the tax amnesty and not just of the seven hundred and peaks of the short list, something which UPyD has asked for in the past and which should be reiterated at this time. Our vote, in any case, will be yes, since this motion is in line with previous proposals put forward by our group. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u89	Thank you, Mr. Anchovielo. Mrs Enbeita has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point it is undeniable that the last tax amnesty adopted in the Spanish State has been a scandal. And I say the last one because it is true that this is not the first time that something like this has been approved, before the fiscal amnesty of 2012 there were two others: one in 1984, when Mr. Miguel Boyer was minister, and another in 1991. In none of these cases have the names of the amnestyed persons or the origin of the money raised. This time, however, it is more than a suspicion at this stage that politicians and public officials have welcomed it. Far from setting an example or fulfilling what their ministries have asked of the citizenry in their day, it seems that the charges have been used to get rid of paying to the Treasury and to fatten their own accounts. But we are discovering all this thanks to the press or certain judges who have dared to move the tickets. And if we stick to the data, ladies and gentlemen, the numbers are powerful: 40 billion euros outflows, more than 31,000 non-contributory people and 1.2 billion euros for public coffers. If we compare what came out with what was retained by the Treasury, it is more than clear who came out winning. It is easy to conclude that the tax amnesty, once again, served only to get well with the usual ones, with whom neither the crisis nor the unemployment nor nothing at all. They dropped a little boiler so they could bleach millions and millions. Hacienda said in his day that he would investigate 700 amnesties and, among them, we have heard about Rodrigo Rato, Luis Bárcenas, Fernando Martín, Josep Pujol, Oleguer Pujol, Diego Torres, etc. And of course, of course you should know the full list, so we want to support this motion, but not just this list. Put to this, it would also be good to know what happens to the Falciani list, what happens to the companies of the Ibex 35 that have their headquarters in tax havens or what happens to the Sicav. There are too many lists here to discover, but of course, just as all roads lead to Rome, most of these lists lead us to the same site, to the establishment, to the usual ones and to the party that governs in the Spanish State. But not only by knowing the names we will solve the problem, because it is assumed that with amnesty many have been freed from the charges attributable to tax offences, so the origin of the problem is ultimately the same system. Tax evasion is not something to be solved, if you want, you can avoid it. Getting a fiscal policy where they pay more than they have, contrary to what is now done, would perhaps be a good way to start. The current tax system allows cheating, escaping, not paying, stealing, corrupting. Of course, all this does not allow citizenship, but it does allow those who travel to Switzerland or Andorra every time they are filled with the wallet. Thus, every five years they are granted a tax amnesty, while the rest pays fines for every penny they miss out on their income tax return. What will the hundreds of citizens who have even been unemployed have thought about returning money to the Treasury in their statement or the small self-employed when they have heard the news about Rodrigo Rato? It's like you invite people themselves not to pay and to disappoint. Totally, it's free. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what do you want us to tell you about Mr Montoro's reprobation of this motion? We will not be the ones to say what you have to do with your finance minister, but following the principle of the environment that the judge so dear to us here, Baltasar Garzón, Montoro should be at least not sure if accused, but asked, because for environments his, full of tax evaders, fraudsters and arrested for corruption. Good thing he's a finance minister, 'cause if he was of something else...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the political context in which this motion is presented is fraught with and fuelled by the reality of corruption, a corruption which greatly affects the Government and the People's Party, and which brings with it the tiredness of citizens who see how many political leaders, and also sometimes, get away from the situation, steal with shame. In the face of the mountains of corruption, which mainly affect the People's Party - but not only because there are other cases, for example the Andalusian ERW - many citizens are enduring the rigors of a deep crisis: the unemployment rate is still above 20% and 50% in the case of young people. While many suffer, others steal or can regularize their fiscal situation at an irritating price. It is not surprising that this context disturbs the political thing and a recomposition of the political map is taking place. The first test we will have in a month with the autonomic and municipal elections. After a long list that is increasingly difficult to memorize - Gürtel, Noos, Barcenes, Matas, the EREs, Punica, etc. -, former vice-president Rodrigo Rato is now joining us, and citizens are wondering: When will this end? How many more are there? Who are they? We want it to be known at once so that all this can be cleaned up from the root. They are all legitimate and reasonable questions and aspirations that require a clear, strong and, above all, credible response from the Government. Citizens must know the truth of what is happening. If you need to change the law, change it. If the legislation does not allow it today, let us adapt the tax legislation so that citizens can know who they have defrauded. My group is committed to transparency and to making sure that the names of the fraudsters are known. In this turbulent context, Judge Ruz made a request for information to the Tax Agency concerning the People's Party, which was apparently sent after the information was known and leaked by the cabinet of the Minister of Finance, an irregularity, gentlemen of the People's Group, and a practice not currently recommended for the Government. And all this in order to try to hide the tax crime committed by the People's Party of defrauding the Treasury 220,000 euros. Is there political responsibility for such behaviour? In our opinion, yes. The independence of the Tax Agency has not been respected, as would have been desirable. On the other hand, the motion also calls for Mr Montoro's reprobation in the light of the results of the tax amnesty, an amnesty which has allowed Mr Bárcenas and Mr Rato to benefit, among others. It's not a question of hiding now. At the time, when amnesty was raised, we already protested head-on against it. It was unethical; it penalized those who regularly pay taxes against the defrauders. It is logical that fraudsters and others, who have had no shame at all in deceiving the tax system, i.e. the citizens, should accept an amnesty by paying only 3% instead of 56% plus the corresponding fine and penalty. Faced with this scandal, the Government only says that they have come up with tax bases that they will now pay. Yeah, but at what price? And above all, at what ethical price? Apart from the 30,000 amnesties, the list of 750 judges, politicians and we do not know who else sent to the Service for the Prevention of Money Laundering and of which we have known the involvement of Mr Rodrigo Rato. In any democratic country, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, the tenth part of the Rato affair would have been a scandal of enormous dimensions. In the case of the Spanish state it is one more drop; a fat drop, yes, but one more drop that adds to the piles of existing drops of corruption. Is it justified, therefore, to reprobate? Perhaps he should have resigned not the finance minister, but the entire government, and not now, but long ago because there are reasons and leftovers. For infinitely fewer reasons the People's Party called for the resignation in the Basque Parliament of the director of EiTB or the reprobation of Justice and Public Administration Councillor Josu Erkoreka, making the reprobation a minor issue. We think that reprimanding a minister is a very serious issue and that it must be isolated from any electoral battle, although I know that it is difficult to do so right now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u93	Mr. Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u94	I'm done, Madam President. Nor do we want our political position to be seen on the sidelines of the reprobation which the Socialist Group intends to capitalise on. But because of the level of corruption that emerges day and day too, especially from the ranks of the People's Party, and being honest with our approaches, we cannot stay out of the debate of reprobation, reprobation to the Minister of Finance and Public Administration, to Mr Montoro, but that should be moved - I insist - to the government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u95	Mr. Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u96	In a month's time, citizens will have the opportunity to speak freely at the polls. We'll see what they decide. That is why, because we are fundamentally against widespread corruption within the People's Party, the amnesty process carried out, we will vote in favour of the Socialist Group's motion, which calls for the Minister's reprobation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u97	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if there were plenty of reasons for Mr Montoro's reprobation today when the sun starts to set, these reasons are multiplying, because something important has happened today: another act of contempt by Mr Montoro for this House. For years we have suffered from Mr Montoro and his fiscal policy: a repeated breach of his electoral promises and unjust fiscal policies. Above all we have seen Minister Montoro push and execute a fiscal amnesty that from the very first moment it was known that it was going to deteriorate the fiscal conscience of the country and it was going to serve so that evaders, defrauders and some alleged - then confirmed - criminals could escape from rositas. During these years we have witnessed the political instrumentalization by Mr Montoro of the Tax Agency, and if he has not done so any more it has been because the professionalism of the public employees of the Tax Agency has not allowed him, not out of desire. We have witnessed the shameful spectacle of seeing Mr Montoro throw out from that veiled seat and in some cases obvious and constant threats to deputies, political parties, the media, journalists and artists, with the clear will to silence them, to silence us. These threats stemmed from the presence of data from the Tax Agency, which, according to him, currently cannot be disseminated because they are part of the confidentiality of the Tax Agency's data. We have seen once again today Mr Montoro's contempt for this House. Since his appearance was compulsory for democratic reasons, he has not done so and has sent to the Director General of the Tax Agency, that what he has told us is what we already know, that the Tax Agency has very good professionals; yes, as good professionals as bad political direction. He has told us what we already know, that, according to him, the tax amnesty was a wonder; we know that it was exactly the opposite, and the facts are proving it. We had some questions to ask Mr Montoro and, as he has not given us the opportunity, we are asking them at the moment, in case someone wants to transfer them. Mr Montoro approved a tax amnesty at the time, which was clearly - we told him in the House - to benefit certain sectors of society. From the beginning, some in this House told him that it was a tax amnesty a la carte, almost like a personalized offer of tax amnesty. Today Mr Montoro has an obligation to tell us and to explain to us whether by approving the tax amnesty he knew that among his future beneficiaries would be close friends of his, cabinet colleagues, comrades of the People's Party. You must explain to this House when you learned that some of those leaders, Mr. Rat, for example, would benefit from that tax amnesty. It has that obligation before us, a democratic obligation. Mr Montoro has repeatedly used, instrumentalized the position for partisan benefit; he did so when he obstructed the work of the courts, he did so also when, taking advantage of the appearance of the Pujol scandal and his family, he decided to appear and decided that on that occasion he could speak of a particular case, that of Mr Pujol, in that case it turned out that confidentiality was not violated and he could speak; instead, when it comes to someone like Mr Rat, no. I said that this morning and I repeat again, neither my group nor I are suspected of distinguishing tax evaders according to the flag they hold or the country of which they are proud; in short, it is only that, tax evaders. Mr Montoro has instrumentalised his duties as Minister of Finance for his own benefit and partisan; he has demonstrated this in his appearance in relation to Mr Pujol and has demonstrated this today by not appearing when he was asked for explanations in relation to Mr Rato. Those reasons are sufficient for his reprobation, but another is added today, and is that Mr Montoro wants to make fun of the citizens of this country again. He says he does not give information about the late, he does not give information about those who have been convicted of tax fraud because he is prevented by article 95 of the General Tax Act.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u99	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u100	It may be true, as true as that article and that law was approved by the People's Party during Mr Aznar's government and as true as it is, if it wishes, possible. That is why I end up saying the same thing I said this morning to the People's Party and to the Government; if you really are sincere in saying that you want to give transparency and publicity to the late prosecutors and tax fraudsters convicted of a final sentence, my group has given them the opportunity. We have put forward a bill for urgent debate and a single reading so that it can be known before citizens vote who they vote for and if among those who stand for election there are some of those late prosecutors or some of those tax fraudsters.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u101	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u102	If you don't, it's because you don't want to, not because you can't, and because, deep down, you know badly that I tell you, but I'll tell you again...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u103	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u104	They have been conniving, have covered up and continue to cover up corruption, in this case fiscal corruption.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u105	Mr. Coscubiela, your time was up a minute ago, 20 seconds ago. Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on the action of the Tax Agency in the fight against tax fraud has always been the same. [[Convergence and Union]] The Tax Agency must be relentless in the fight against fraud for all Spanish citizens. At the same time, we have always said that the mechanisms to be put in place by the State and the Government to achieve this should always be at the service of this fight against fraud in order to achieve the maximum collection objectives, always with the same treatment for all the citizens of the Spanish State. Today we have found, regrettably, that this has not been the case. I am going to refer to two questions which are perfectly pointed out in the 'Diary of Sessions', where you will be able to see that the statements I make at the moment are true. Mr Montoro said at the hearing in the Puyol case the following: No one is spared that my presence here today also originates in one of the most serious cases of tax fraud in qualitative terms that have been known in Spain, which has caused, ladies and gentlemen, the consequent social alarm and is more than sufficient reason for the Minister of Finance of the Government of Spain to appear in this Parliament. I would ask Mr Montoro: Where have you been today in the appearance of the Committee on Finance and Public Administration which has not been able to come face-to-face and give explanations when it did in the Puyol case? Another relevant statement, from our point of view. We said that we did not share these statements, but we were sitting and respecting them. Another important statement made by Mr Montoro: It is logical that everyone, and also the citizens of Catalonia, now wonder how they have been able to put the management of their community in the hands of people who, while ruling, were violating the tax rules that we are all forced to do. It is logical to ask whether that way of wanting and understanding Catalonia is endorsed by other leaders of its party, and whether its political heritage and its political heirs are not really contaminated by this alleged inheritance. We did not share this statement, but we would like to know what Mr Montoro's position is. Finally, another question concerning point 1 of the motion which Mr Saura has defended. We too understand Mr. Montoro's reprehensible conduct in all those aspects that make... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u107	One moment, Mr. Sánchez i Llibre. Please, keep quiet. If you have to talk, do it outside the Chamber, because it is impossible to listen to Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u108	Thank you very much for your protection, Madam President. There is another issue that we also consider relevant from the point of view of respect for all Spanish taxpayers and citizens who pay their taxes religiously. There have been some claims by Mr Montoro that he compared the subsidies that the different Spanish citizens can legally give to an organization as important as Caritas with an assumption of illegal financing that is in the courts, with all those contributions to box B of the Gürtel case. We understand that these statements are not welcome; they are a lack of respect for all those non-profit associations that work where the public administrations of the State cannot reach, and we believe that this is an issue that has not been sufficiently clarified. Finally, with regard to the two following points raised by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Saura, we are in the electoral campaign, but you, with all due respect, I understand that you are not in the moral position to give lessons to anyone from everything that can represent a fiscal amnesty. You made two perfectly legalized and approved tax amnesties in this House; you also made another covert tax amnesties in the case of all those reports from the Swiss evader. We know that we are now in the electoral campaign, but we are not in the pim, pam, pum between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We are going to vote in favour of point 1 of your motion, Mr Montoro's reprobation, and we are going to abstain on points 2 and 3. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u109	Thank you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. For the People's Group, Mr Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Saura, I have never read a motion so absolutely regrettable; never. Today, the Socialist Party has surpassed its own record of parliamentary cynicism. This motion is full of ignorance, malice and crooked electoral interest. Or all three things at once. It's a clumsy compilation of slogans, falsehoods and inconsistencies. I will make a few comments on the text of your motion. It does not seem very consistent that you tell the Spanish Minister of Finance, who is the one who has collected most in Spain's history in the fight against fraud, that he does not fight fraud. The data is there: more than 3 billion euros of collection in the fight against the fraud of difference between this year and 2011, the last year in which you ruled. EUR 122,000 million has been made in respect of 2011 and it turns out that Mr Montoro, as his motion says - I open quotes - covers corruption. And they stay so wide. If Mr Montoro does not fight corruption, with the figures on the table, what did you do? What was its management in the fight against fraud? As in the rest of economic policy, a joke policy. It doesn't seem consistent. Nor does it seem prudent that you, who sent a kind letter to the Falciani defrauders, should ask the government for more transparency, which announced the immediate publication of the late ones with the Public Treasury last Friday in the Council of Ministers. They also accuse the party that has adopted the most complete battery of measures in the history of democracy to combat precisely corruption; more than seventy measures to combat corruption. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: What a shame!]] This seems to me to be another contradiction. Also in his motion they say that the Tax Agency does not cooperate, although he has submitted five reasoned reports to the judge, including the simulations he had requested. And you continue to say that the Tax Agency does not cooperate with justice and also put it in writing in the text of your motion. You defend the independence of the professionals of the Tax Agency in the morning and in the afternoon - I have also heard it again today - slander them in a petty way, accusing them of being at the service of the interests of the People's Party. It seems to me that what you do has no name. Nor does it seem very consistent that we receive corruption lessons from you, who are still keeping three accused of corruption in those seats - we must not go too far - Mr Chaves, Mr Zarrías and Mr Viera. [[Applauds]] And furthermore, as one UPyD Member said this afternoon, they have put a gentleman accused of corruption and a breakdown in an Andalusian savings bank as president of the Andalusian Parliament. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Yours has no name, it's pure cynicism. Instead, they come here to demand the reprobation of a minister because someone has committed an alleged crime. The only party that has been convicted of corruption in Spain has been the PSOE, the only party convicted of corruption. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] It does not seem very normal for you to accuse others on the basis of lies, violating the presumption of innocence systematically and without a court ruling on the table. You also continually talk about that evil so-called fiscal amnesty, when you passed two real tax amnesty, absolutely opaque, in 1984 and 1991; therefore, you have no credibility on this issue. [[Rumors]] By the way, I am going to reflect aloud: if you had not left the country in bankruptcy, as you left it in December 2011, in bankruptcy, surely this government would not have to have pushed this special tax statement to you. [[Protests]] [[Applauds.-Protests]] Another question, another comment. Justice, which is investigating alleged criminals, criminals of all colors, of all political parties, says the spokesman of the PSOE that the People's Party is hindering it, when justice is working in this direction more than ever. This week they were very happy with Rodrigo Rato's arrest, and it's been three years since he said that with the tax amnesty, everyone was leaving with rositas. What are we left with? Because they say one thing and the other. It doesn't make any sense. It is good enough to discredit, insult and vilify the People's Party. In politics it is not worth everything, Mr Saura, it is not worth everything, you have crossed all the red lines of truth with the sole purpose of concealing that the People's Party is the party that is advancing in the economic recovery of this country. You're just trying to embarrass the playing field. In Spain there has always been corruption, there has always been corruption, the difference is that now it is detected, persecuted and punished Who makes the pay, it is called as it is called and whatever party it is. [[Applauds]] Justice, the police, the prosecution are acting with absolute independence, the institutions are functioning properly. We are all equal before the law, and this parliamentary group invites and encourages the State Security Forces and Bodies to continue to work in that direction. Corruption disgusts us all. Furthermore, you are not prepared to give any lessons in this regard because you have consistently opposed all the measures we have put on the table to end this country's corruption. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Cleaning up the country of corrupt people is the mission and objective of the People's Party. We would like to count on your support and ask you, please, to stop trying to embarrass the camp, to do partisan politics to try to scratch four votes, especially while in your ranks there are still three accused of corruption. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u111	Thank you, Mr Gallego. Mr Saura, an amendment has been tabled. Do you or do you not accept it? [[Rumors]] Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u112	Madam President, we are going to ask for a separate vote on the three points.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u113	Do you not accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u114	We don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u115	Okay. That's how it's gonna be done. Let's call it a vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, two days ago we learned of the shipwreck of a fishing vessel north of the coast of Libya that has cost the lives of hundreds of migrants on board. As a demonstration of the commitment of the Congress of Deputies to finding solutions that would put an end to these kinds of humanitarian tragedies and in mourning and remembering the victims, I ask you to keep a minute of silence. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u117	In accordance with Rule 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure, this Presidency proposes to the House the amendment of the agenda, so that point 27 on the urgent inquiry of the Catalan Parliamentary Group is discussed before point 25 on the urgent inquiry of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left. [[Convergence and Union]] Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] That's how it's gonna be done.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u118	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we met with the stupor of the death of a teacher at the Joan Fuster high school in Barcelona, at the hands of a 13-year-old student, who also wounded four more people. Today, dismayed by the tragic event, the Congress of Deputies wants to join the pain of family members, friends and the entire people of Barcelona, and to express its support and solidarity with the educational community.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u119	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House that the agenda for Thursday morning be amended in item 30, concerning the debate on the whole of the draft law on the management, supervision and solvency of insurance entities, to be discussed after item 28. Does the House remember that? OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, REFORMING THE RULES OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTIES ON PROPOSALS FOR POPULAR INITIATIVE LAW. [[File number. 410/000009]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u120	Firstly, it is appropriate to discuss the consideration of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposal for a reform of the Regulation on the processing of proposals for popular initiative legislation. For your presentation, Mrs Batet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the establishment of democracy in our country, there has been a mechanism for the direct participation of citizens in relation to the legislative power, such as the popular legislative initiative. In this regard, article 87.3 of the Constitution already provides for this. In fact, it provides for the need to collect 500,000 signatures in order to bring this popular legislative initiative to this House. The number of signatures would certainly also be another relevant debate on this subject, but that would entail a reform of the Constitution and therefore escapes this parliamentary procedure. Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies also provides for and develops this mechanism of direct participation, as well as Organic Law 3/1984, which regulates the popular legislative initiative. This is the regulatory framework for reference in this area. Today the Socialist Parliamentary Group is bringing this issue to debate, as it seems obvious that this regulation has not favoured the instrument of participation of the popular legislative initiative to function as it should. For their verification, I invite you to review the initiatives that have been taken into consideration, that have prospered and that have ended up being approved in a recognizable manner by the promoters. I will begin by sharing with all of you why the Socialist Group has decided today to bring this initiative to plenary. In almost all legislatures there has been an attempt to amend the Rules of Procedure, aware that addressing the improvement of the functioning of the Congress of Deputies should be a priority for all parliamentary groups represented in this House, but the lack of consensus has always prevented these changes from coming forward. Therefore, since June 2012, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has presented proposals for partial reform of the House's Rules of Procedure. The first was for the Committee on Petitions to become a genuine civic participation commission. They were all rejected by the People's Parliamentary Group, arguing that it was not the right forum for its debate. A presentation was therefore requested to discuss the reform of the relevant rule, i.e. the Rules of Procedure of the House. In April 2013, such a presentation was made to reform that Regulation. In April 2014, a year after there had been total immobility to convene the presentation and, therefore, also avoiding, simultaneously, that discussions on this subject could be held at the plenary session of this House, the first meeting of this House took place. It is agreed to divide the paragraphs to be reformed into blocks, with the aim of being adopted as they are agreed, in order to avoid precisely blocking the whole text by specific details, as happened in the so-called Marin reform or as happened in each of the proposals and impulses that have been attempted to amend this Regulation. Since that date, the presentation had been held almost monthly and it had been agreed that the legislative procedure would be the first paragraph to be reformed as the agreement on this issue was to be more easily reached a priori. In January 2015, the Socialist Parliamentary Group launched an ultimatum to the People's Parliamentary Group to comment on the proposals for reform of the legislative procedure that had been put forward, bearing in mind that we were already on the way to two years of making up the paper and had addressed only the first of the points set out. Of the 28 amendments proposed by all the parliamentary groups, the People's Group accepted three. In March 2015, my group announced its withdrawal from the paper for the reform of the Rules of Procedure, as it was quite clear that the majority group had no intention of making any changes to the text. In fact, the People's Party made the presentation with the aim of blocking any public debate on the reform of the Rules of Procedure, having deliberately delayed the debate throughout the entire legislature. It seems that we are immersed in a kind of eternal Nietzschean return. So we will return to the beginning and the Socialist Parliamentary Group will again put forward proposals for partial reforms in plenary, with the aim of making public the political position of each of the parliamentary groups on this matter and the genuine political will to take steps to adapt our institutions to new realities. This bill is the first of these initiatives and we propose to discuss, as I have already announced, the improvement of a direct participation mechanism such as popular legislative initiatives. In fact, the organic law regulating this initiative already provides for the participation of a person by the promoters to defend this initiative or, even, the Organic Law of Political Parties also provides that he may participate in the Commission. But the truth is that, as all honourable Members know, those of the People's Parliamentary Group too, if it is not included in the Rules of Procedure of the House, none of these legal provisions will have any effect. The proposal for a law that we want to take into consideration proposes the participation of the promoters of popular legislative initiatives at two points in the legislative procedure. First of all, in the debate that is always taking account of the plenary — as we are having today — and for whose defence all legislative proposals have a voice: the legislative proposals presented by parliamentary groups of Congress; the legislative proposals presented by parliamentary groups of the Senate, which support their debate in the Senate, or the legislative proposals presented by legislative assemblies or autonomous parliaments. All but popular legislative initiatives. The second point at which we also consider it relevant for the promoters to appear in this House is when the debate begins in the Commission, that is, once all the amendments have been tabled by the parliamentary groups and the report of the presentation is in existence and is known. As I said, this citizen demand arises to materialize a constant participation in political life and public decisions, beyond the vote issued every four years. My group is aware that this proposal for a law is not enough and is partial to what is actually sought and needed, but it is certainly an important element of confluence and sum, symbolically of bringing Parliament closer to its citizens and citizens to its Parliament. It is also true that, in any case, the person who comes to defend the ILP also comes on behalf of 500,000 people who have signed this initiative, so all the paths lead to representation; it seems reasonable that the 500,000 people do not come to defend the text presented. In fact, the vast majority of citizens are not asking for a pure direct democracy, but for representative democracy to work, and for it to work well, and for the mechanisms of direct participation to work, and to work well. They do not ask for direct democracy because they do not ask for everyone to participate all the time above all, but for public institutions to function and be strong in the face of other institutions or powers that do not represent the whole of the citizenry, that is, that represent non-democratic powers. The decency of politics cannot be left alone in the hands of people's goodness, but institutional strength is needed. That is what gives genuine guarantees and security to citizens. Strengthen the media; do not weaken them, as this legislature has passed with Spanish Television. Strengthen public employees; do not discredit them with frivolous comments. Strengthen the various levels of government, local and autonomous; do not cast shadows of constant doubt or legislate directly to dismantle them, as has happened with the recent local reform. Strengthen the Tax Agency, justice or the police; do not take over these institutions. To strengthen Parliament as an organ representing popular sovereignty, listening to the opposition and taking its proposals seriously; not to play three and a half years with the reform of the Rules of Procedure, knowing that there was no willingness to reach agreement. To legislate by deliberating and not making decrees-laws for all and against all. Do not use the procedure of amendments to introduce, without debate, extremely controversial issues on which the parliamentary groups in this House were known and it is well known that they do not have an agreement. Appear to explain policies, to explain decisions and to assume responsibilities. None of that is being done by the absolute majority of the People's Party. Thus, existing shortcomings — because they exist — of our institutionality are aggravated by the policy and praxis adopted by that absolute majority. Because having good laws and good regulation is certainly something very important, but believing in the institutions, ensuring their proper functioning and committing to what Parliament represents has a lot to do with the political attitude; it has a lot to do with a genuine defence of the public and it has a lot to do with wanting the openness and permeability of the institutions before the citizens. However, we would not only improve each of the institutions, but would help to strengthen the democratic system itself. The improvement of the direct participation mechanism of the ILP improves the legislative role of Parliament. However, there is no doubt that the improvement of the other major role of this House, such as control of the Government, must also be addressed. The assumption of political responsibility, which has nothing to do with criminal responsibility, by means of appearances or by allowing the setting up of commissions of inquiry, should be a democratic culture normally assumed by all the political groups that are part of this House. [[Applauds]] I will give you an example: the consequences of this government's approval of a tax amnesty do not seem to bear criminal responsibility, of course it is not for this Member to judge it; but I have no doubt, absolutely no doubt, that it does have political responsibilities, and many. Those are the ones that should be examined and clarified in the Congress of Deputies, in this House and by all parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]] The debate we intend to put forward with this initiative goes far beyond the simple issue of the ILP, it is not simply a debate to improve an institution of direct democracy, but, above all, a debate on the need to improve the quality of our democratic system, to change it to ensure its survival. This is the time to raise this debate, ladies and gentlemen. The growing poverty caused by the economic crisis and also corruption has exacerbated criticism of the democratic model, so that politicians and political parties have gone from criticism of concrete behaviour to criticism of the same model of representation and democracy. That is why it is essential that we be precisely the representatives of the citizens, and therefore all those who are part of this House, of the sovereign, who wonder what needs to be done to improve the system, and we need to do it and we need to do it now. The Government is carrying out the entire legislature by announcing measures, sometimes up to four times, often in a coup d'état, measures that never arrive, and by vetoing the proposals made by the rest of the parliamentary groups in this area. The People's Party and its Government are not in a position to address this task, nor do they believe in public institutions and the need for their strength to build a better society, nor do they have the political will to listen and reach agreements. The majority, or I would even say that all the parliamentary groups in this House, share the need to improve this instrument of direct participation as is the popular legislative initiative. I ask you, in this procedure of consideration, to vote in favour of this bill by all groups. We will thus break the paralysis of the work of the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, improve a mechanism for direct participation and thus improve the democratic institution par excellence, as it is precisely the one that represents — as I said — popular sovereignty, that is, this Parliament. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u122	We're moving on to position-fixing. First, by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) Mixed, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Is it necessary to reform the Regulation to ensure the participation of the committee promoting popular legislative initiatives? The answer is clearly yes and therefore we have already announced that we are going to vote in favour of the proposal. Is that enough with what you're proposing? We understand that you could go much further. Compromis shares the idea that the processes of forming the institutionalized political will in parliaments are connected with a public opinion that is not formally articulated. Democracy would require the participation of citizens in the system of parliamentarianism to the greatest extent possible, complementing our work as representatives of sovereignty with the permanent flow of public opinion and the institutions that represent it. Parliament can only be strengthened if the people are involved in the decisions that are taken, and people are involved if they perceive that their contribution is taken into account, that is, if they are heard. To participate, as has happened so far, to be deceived, as happened with the popular legislative initiative of the mortgage-affected platform, obviously unmotivated, although perhaps that was the goal: to demotivate so that not many popular legislative initiatives are presented. It is necessary to address a reform of the Regulation together with the reform of Organic Law 3/1984 in order to update it in this line. The first necessary step relates to legislative matters that are susceptible to popular legislative initiatives, avoiding the limitations of matters that coerce citizen expression. As far as budgetary matters are concerned, the possibility should be opened that citizens can request an improvement in budgetary content for certain matters through this mechanism. With regard to the number of signatures required, it should be adapted to the population reality and the number of signatures required in countries in our environment. I give you an example, in Italy, with more population than the Spanish State, the minimum required is only 50,000, and in the legislation of the European legislative initiative the minimum number has been set at one million, i.e. only twice what is required here. Applying the same percentage, only 63,600 signatures should be required in the Spanish State. As for the minimum age to be able to participate, so that it is an optimal mechanism, so that young people — like this one we have up here today listening to us — are part of the political debate and decision-making process. Compromís therefore proposes that, in order to begin the exercise of citizenship by means of the proposal, it should be possible to sign from the age of sixteen. With regard to parliamentary processing, the initiative's promoters have to be an active and protagonist in the process — that is why we agree with this initiative — and they have to have a voice and a capacity to propose appearances and make themselves heard. In addition, in the face of the Bureau's non-admission of the legislative initiative, we call for the filing of an appeal for replenishment, without having to go directly to the Constitutional Court. We also think they have to have obligations; the promoter committee should make public the origin of the funding of the legislative initiative, the entities supporting it and the public accountability. In short, we will vote yes to this proposal knowing that it is a small step towards opening the doors of this house to the citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u124	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. For the same group, Mr Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to involve you in our solidarity with the Movistar workers, both the contractors and those who are employees of the subcontractors. I will be allowed to send you a message, I repeat, of solidarity. They're on strike because they're against working conditions that break into slavery. I conclude by saying that on Thursday 23rd there is a great demonstration in Madrid of all the Movistar workers, which we hope will be a great success because, I repeat, we are already...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u126	Mr. Tardà, get back to it, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u127	Yeah. He said that working conditions are scratching in slavery. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of the proposal put forward by the Socialist Group. We ourselves presented one in the Commission's work; in fact, we presented fifty proposals, one of which was related to the popular legislative initiative. Perhaps they could have gone a little further, they could have been a little more daring to understand that it is not only a question of giving citizens between the ages of sixteen and eighteen years the possibility of signing a popular legislative initiative, but why it must be limited to citizens of Spanish nationality. If it is to encourage popular participation, all those who are registered, even if not of Spanish nationality, should be able to sign a popular legislative initiative. We also understand that once the popular legislative initiative has arrived at the Congress of Deputies, the Congress should commit itself to discussing it at the session at which it was presented by the citizenry. Of course — and this is the case in the Catalan Parliament and it is possible that it will happen in parliaments in other territories of the current Spanish State — the legal services of the Congress of Deputies would have to advise citizens wishing to carry such an initiative and it should be possible to present and defend it in any of the co-official languages of the current Spanish State. I believe that the Socialist Group has been short, but the important thing is that it can be discussed; in its process we would already try to have the Socialist Group or the majority who conformed to accept our proposals. We agree that representatives of the People's Legislative Initiative must be able to take part not only in defending the initiative, but also in the presentation or in the Commission to consider its opinion. In general, we might quite agree. If I wish to mention, even if it is quickly, that our parliamentary group, which is basically represented by comrade Uxue Barkos and myself, Joan Tardà, we have been very active in all the work that has been carried out by the presentation and the Commission opened by the President of Congress, Mr Posada, and which once again ended in failure, because when they are not one, they are the other. This X Legislature will also end without reform of the Rules of Congress of Deputies. I must say that in the first parliamentary term of President Rodríguez Zapatero it was not possible because in the end the People's Party and the Socialist Party were unable to recognize the linguistic rights of Members of Parliament. Then, in the last legislature, very little progress was made and, this time, naive of us, we believed that at last the People's Party and the Socialist Party would be able to agree and conclude with this need for reform of Congress so that this House, this institution, would cease to have these nineteenth-century airs and would really be a leading and functional House according to the times we live of demand and participation. Once again, I must say that we have worked as the most, although as always the Catalan Republicans are frustrated because once again we have been fooled. There was a time when the Socialist Party took us away and now the People's Party has taken us away. In fact, you are real hairdressers and we are victims of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u128	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Basque Group, Mr Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u129	Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking from the seat because this has already been discussed a thousand times and I do not know what this proposal is now about when we have just been discussing the possibilities of amending the Rules of Congress. In any case, it seems to us that the people's initiative can have a defence in the process of being taken into consideration and even at the start of the legislative committee. I do not know whether it is presented for election campaign or simply the way of thinking of the Socialist Party; in any case, it seems good to us, for us it will not be that popular participation does not come forward. What we would rather dislike is that this became a contest of who is most popular, which can become the most populist of the whole class. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u130	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Esteban is right when he says that this is quite debated or very much debated, but in the opinion of the Progressive Union and Democracy, not by much debated, it must no longer be necessary to address this issue. It is, as Mr Esteban and the spokesman of the Socialist Group themselves said, the proposer, debated and even, supposedly, agreed because in the debates of the paper, when this issue was addressed, it seemed that all of us who were part of it were quite in agreement. It is true that the Group of the European People's Party did not see very well that it would appear at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies who presented the popular legislative initiative, who thought that it was necessary to do so in the Commission, but it is also true that we all wanted to change the system so that whoever presented the initiative could come to defend it in the House. The truth is that it gave the impression that we were all in agreement on this matter, which has to do with the control of citizens over their political representatives, which has to do with a citizen demand and a political demand to open institutions to citizens from the perspective that we do represent citizens, although there are citizen participation formulas that at this time of the century require a better channelling, a better way of participating than the one that so far has those who defend a popular legislative initiative. It is true, Mr Esteban said, that someone might think that this proposal arises because we are in the midst of an election. I prefer not to think badly, to think that this arises because we have not done what we were committed to do. I am not going to defend here the right of each of the groups to present the initiatives at any time; we have been penalised many times by almost all the groups in the House, let alone all, at the time when we are presenting the initiatives, but the truth is that this issue is appropriate, it is a matter on which we should have reached an agreement, it was among the issues discussed in the presentation and the presentation has failed. The fact that the Socialist Group is bringing this proposal here today, even if it is partial, for the reform of the Rules of Procedure, is the explanation, worth saying, of a failure in the work of a paper that has failed because there has been no political will for that to happen. There has been no political will on the part of the majority group, there has been no political will. And besides there is no political will, they have not had the courage to explain that they did not want to do so. We have been deceived by all those who participated in the paper; there has been no political explanation of what the difficulties were. They deceived us because they made us believe that we were going to agree everything possible, unlike the previous legislature, in which the Rules of Procedure were a whole and there was some sort of agreement between the parliamentary groups; I was not at the time in the Congress of Deputies, but the agreement in the debates of the Marin era was that if there was no agreement of everything, there was no agreement of anything. The first meeting of the presentation in this legislature was to decide that what we could agree, we would take it forward. And in that you have not told us the truth because you have packed up at a certain time, when you wanted to, and when there was enough chance of reaching agreements on the chapter we had decided, you have put on the table the regulation of the lobbies, which was not in any of those chapters; by the way, we have not agreed on that either. You have led us to deception consciously; you did not want an agreement but did not want it to be known that the majority group did not want an agreement on the reform of the Rules of Procedure, which was a request of all. We need to reform the regulation to regenerate democracy from the point of view of giving citizens more tools to control politicians, so that the House is more transparent, so that there is more publicity of all our payrolls, all our work, all our agendas, so that there is more transparency. The regulation must also be amended to encourage new instruments of participation — the one on the table today is one of them — to make Parliament more agile, so that questions can be raised on the same day that they can be answered. In short, so that this Parliament may look more like Parliament in any of the countries in our environment, democracies we say we admire. None of that they have wanted to do, none of that, but they have dizzyed us — let me express it —; always good words, all saying that maybe next week, that we will agree to the departure of the meeting to say that although we have not made enough progress the following week we will do so... It has been a manifest deception, a deception to parliamentary groups and, therefore, a deception to all citizens. That said, the reform proposed by the Socialist Group is indeed a very timely, very partial reform on a single aspect: popular legislative initiatives. Is that all we need? No, not much less. Is that the most important thing we need? Probably not either; perhaps the most necessary thing is for Parliament to be more transparent and more agile, but it seems to be the simplest thing because a priori we all seem to agree that the system of presentation of popular legislative initiatives needs to be changed, it seems that we could agree on this. It's a small advance, but it would be a breakthrough. Hey, take the witness! If this is a small step forward and we all believe that progress must be made in this area, as they admit the initiative, let us take it into consideration and then debate whether it is presented in plenary, whether it is presented in plenary and also in the Commission, whether it is defended by the proponents in plenary and in the Commission, if it is only defended in the Commission... The steps, let us discuss them through the amendments, but let us move forward in this area because it is not that it is a demand of those who are outside, it is that — unless they have deceived us in that too — it was a demand of all, even of you, except that they have deceived us in that too. So let's admit it. I ask you to allow it to proceed, you have an absolute majority, in the debate on the amendments we will have the need to agree on the content, on how, until when, on how the proponents defend this initiative, and let us even make progress on this. That is why reforming the regulation as a whole is going to be impossible, because we are reforming it, which will be a good message not only to the respect that we owe to all of us but also a message to the citizens who are seeing us from the outside and who demand a greater degree of commitment and control for all of us from a perspective that is fundamental precisely because we represent them, because we represent the citizens and because we know that there are other forms of representation and that there are other ways of channelling citizens' concerns. Let us not be afraid to open Parliament because if we do not open Parliament, it will be democracy who will actually pay for it. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr. Centella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that this legislature is not the first time that attempts have been made to amend the regulation, which had already occurred in other legislatures, but this time it was of a special nature. This time it was not just a question among the parliamentary groups, this time when the debate to amend the Rules of Procedure begins is the result of a broader debate, a debate provoked because many citizens shout on the street that of ‘not representing us' and because there is a demand that we have to change the way politics is done, the way people are represented. It was therefore a debate on democracy itself, so our group brought an inquiry, which we then turned into a motion, by which we proposed that a Commission should be set up to see formulas and mechanisms for making a Parliament much more open, a Parliament much more plural and a Parliament much more democratic. And that is why when the process of this reform began, it was born with illusion, with the illusion that for once the citizens' demands could be heard, that they could be heard the demands that on the streets and in the squares shouted that of "more democracy". But from the first day we realized that the People's Party was, no more or less, a very partial reform. We immediately saw that there was no will for any kind of reform because the People's Party is well equipped with a bounded democracy, a bipartisan Parliament and it was therefore very difficult for it to admit a reform that was really at the heart of the problem: that today we have a Parliament that is far from the social reality, a Parliament that is far from the demands for direct participation and the exercise of democracy, a Parliament that is not the Parliament that today the majority of the Spanish and Spanish demand. That is why we first put forward a series of proposals that were aimed, first of all, at doing that, at making a Parliament that could have more control, more intervention and also a Parliament open to citizens, with the illusion that what was being shouted on the street could also be heard in this house. But it is true that we have met here with dilatory tactics — as has already been said — tactics which have basically made the Commission's work bear fruit completely null and void, despite, and must be acknowledged, the will of the President. I have to admit, at least in order for it to appear in the 'Diary of Sessions', that the President of this House has taken this challenge seriously and has tried to the extent possible for the groups to do the work. I would therefore like to record that goodwill and interest, but from there we are indeed in a debate that is the result of a failure, a debate that is the result of the failure of the Commission's work. And that which from the first moment we thought was not a whole or nothing; we knew that everything was impossible and we thought that at least those things that were important and in which there was agreement reached the plenary debate; that at least the topics that were possible and that meant giving more prominence to citizenship — as has been said, that Committee on Petitions which is nothing more than a box of suggestions or the processing of the ILP — we could bring them to the plenary so that in this legislature — the legislature in which there has been more social pressure to change democracy, in which there has been more social pressure to open Parliament, so that the days of open doors are not exclusively tourist visits but the expression of popular sovereignty — citizen participation was something more than a desire, was a reality. But the People's Party, I repeat, is at ease; it prefers a Parliament surrounded by fences, a Parliament guarded by the police, to a Parliament open to the people; it is comfortable in this protected democracy, guarded, when not a democracy of low intensity and, therefore, little can be expected and we have realized half of the parliamentary work of this Commission. From there, today we are presented with an initiative that highlights this failure and puts on the table one of the issues that we have discussed, that we have valued, that we have agreed but that today cannot be approved because it has been decided that this amendment is not being dealt with. It is a necessity, something that the Constitution recognizes as it is the possibility that citizens make a legislative initiative and that this is more than just a pose, is more than just a process and becomes something that can be really affordable and that shows that citizen participation. That is why we see this procedure relevant, which could also open the door, if admitted, to further amendments to the Rules of Procedure. We understand that popular legislative initiatives need to be modified. It is true that it has already been tried in another legislature and that there was some problem even with the Constitution itself, but, as far as possible, it was appropriate for this procedure to be opened, for citizens to see how the Constitution is not interpreted in a restrictive way; the Constitution, which is great to you, is becoming smaller and smaller. It was good that the possibility should be raised that if an ILP was brought to this Parliament, it could be defended by someone who had promoted it. The curious circumstance has arisen — I do not know whether the proposer would like to recall it — that an ILP promoted by trade unions against a labour reform of the Socialist Party was defended in this House in favour of a Member of the Socialist Party; greater contradiction I think it is difficult to find. Well, that is one of the contradictions that can be avoided if the ones who defend it are the ones who have driven it. Moreover, participation in the Commission is rigorous because we have also encountered the fact that an ILP promoted by the mortgage-affected platform and the unions to try to end this scourge of evictions — still more than a hundred daily evictions — was dealt with — it is also true that social pressure, even that day, was dramatic, suicide included — but taking advantage of that processing to completely change the meaning and that what came out of this House was something entirely different from what the promoters had wanted to move. A law which, of course, has not only stopped evictions, but in some cases has even been able to make them worse. It is therefore true that the ILPs need to have a different meaning, that they do not become a mere process and that they really mean the possibility that citizens, who are sovereigns, can promote legislative changes. That is why we believe that the procedure should be followed, and we also think that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure should be made so that this House is really a more plural, democratic and open House so that we do not have to bear the embarrassment that causes us to be unable to even discuss here the possibility of debating the creation of a committee of inquiry because the People's Party can veto its constitution no longer, but the debate itself of that initiative. That is, a House that is not tied up, a House that is not bipartisan, a House that ultimately responds to what must be a Parliament of the 21st century. That is why we are going to support this process, and that is why we believe that the People's Party should explain why there has been no chance at this time of agreeing even something as minimal as this, why they have not shown will and above all why they are still clinging to a reality that exists only in their seats and for as long as this legislature lasts. That, together with our support for this initiative, is also our commitment that in the coming legislatures we will go this way, hoping that those who are today's opposition, if they are to be in the government tomorrow, will not change their sides and we will have to see the People's Party calling for the change of the Rules of Procedure and the Socialist Party clinging to the non-amendment, which, on the other hand, has happened in other legislatures. We therefore agree with the initiative; we believe that it is partial but relevant and that it would allow us to open the way to other possible changes. In short, it is a unfortunately lost legislature, which has more frustrated thousands of citizens who demand more democracy and millions of citizens who demand that things change. You will be able to stop it until the day the next elections are called. From there, it will be the people who put everyone in their place. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u134	Thank you, Mr. Centella. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Surroca. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Parliamentary Group is presenting a proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, which seeks to give greater prominence to the promoters of popular legislative initiatives during their parliamentary process. In Convergence and Union we share the need to reform this instrument of citizen participation. We have always advocated the need to improve and deepen everything that encourages greater involvement of citizens in decision-making. Is the Socialist proposal enough for us? We consider it insufficient. Honestly, we think we should be more ambitious. We are convinced of the need for this revision and also to update the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, but as a whole, not only with regard to popular legislative initiatives. And that, for what purpose? To improve and adapt parliamentary activity to the demands of the new times. That is the great outstanding subject and what citizens expect of us today. On the contrary, what the Socialist Group is proposing today is a timely, concrete, unambitious and limited change to the Congressional process of popular legislative initiative. Although in her speech the Socialist Group Member said that the proposal she was defending went further, ultimately the text they are proposing tells us what she says and is only talking about a reform of the Rules of Procedure to improve the popular legislative initiative. And it is surprising that I asked for it with this proposal when the study paper on the reform of the Rules of Procedure has been drawn up for months, a paper of which the Socialist Group, the People's Group and the rest of the parliamentary groups in this House are members. Therefore, we believe that it is forced and obeys the pure scenography that the Socialist Parliamentary Group defends today and here this initiative, when the coherent thing is to do so in the presentation of the reform of the Rules of Procedure. One wonders why they are bringing this initiative to debate in plenary today. The answer is obvious: because the People's Group and the Socialist Group have broken down the negotiations to push for the reform of the Rules of Procedure. That is, the two majority parties, excluding the others, intended to reach an agreement for the reform of the Rules of Procedure, but for partisan, and probably electoral reasons, have been unable to do so. There will therefore be no profound reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure in this legislature because the People's Party and the Socialist Party have not been able to defend their party interests and do not have a genuine will to reach broad consensus on this matter. That is why the paper's work has failed, as some speakers who have spoken before me have already said. Our parliamentary group, Convergence i Unió, has proposed and defended the need to reform the Rules of Congress with different objectives. First, strengthen political debate and increase citizen participation. Secondly, to improve the technical quality of parliamentary activity. Thirdly, to increase respect for the will of the legislative proposal — here we do agree with the socialist proposal we are debating today. Fourthly, incorporating linguistic plurality into the parliamentary debate. Fifthly, to strengthen respect for minorities, especially when there are absolute majorities. And finally, to increase ethics and transparency in parliamentarianism. All this is necessary in order to renew the pact of trust between citizenship and politics, as a faithful reflection of the representation of citizens' views expressed in the ballot boxes. The values of efficiency, integrity, honesty, transparency, austerity and effective commitment to citizens must govern the rules of Congress and therefore parliamentary action. Unfortunately, we are still far from achieving this. Also, as I said earlier, we must strengthen the political debate and increase citizen participation by incorporating, for example, changes that dynamically drive the House's control of government members or bet more forcefully by electronic means that will allow citizens to multiply their participation in the debate on legislative initiatives. The Rules of Procedure must also be adapted to allow citizens' proposals to be incorporated into drafts and proposals for legislation when they have passed the full debate. Civil society and interest group approaches could also be collected and heard by setting a regular agenda item in the commissions with appearances responding to citizens' doubts, as is the case in other countries, for example, in Chile. And a forum for discussion on ongoing parliamentary initiatives could be opened on the Congress website where citizens could present their views and be referred to parliamentary groups. This happens, for example, in Catalonia with the model of the 136th seat of the Parliament of Catalonia. On the other hand, we must be able to improve the technical activity of parliamentary activity by avoiding, for example, the cumulative legislation of various themes or by facilitating means for parliamentary groups, among other issues. Convergence i Unió also defends the need to increase respect for the will of the legislative proposal in a much broader way than the proposal that the Socialist Group has defended today. With what measures? With two very clear measures. On the one hand, draft laws on the reform of an autonomous statute, if amended during the parliamentary procedure, should be able to be evaluated by the relevant Parliament or Autonomous Assembly and, where appropriate, withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure if so decided by the proposing legislative institutions. Secondly, in the case, for example, of the popular legislative initiative, the meaning of this should not be changed. We believe that, after their proceedings, they should be subject to the evaluation of the proposers, who should be able to withdraw the text if they consider it relevant. Another important issue that should be addressed by this comprehensive reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress and which the Popular and Socialist groups do not have the slightest interest in promoting is the possibility of using co-official languages other than Spanish. Precisely, as you well know, this was the main obstacle two legislatures ago to approve the reform of the Regulation. If today we do not have a Congressional regulation adapted to the current needs, it is because neither the People's Group nor the Socialist Group accepted that the use of co-official languages should be incorporated into that reform. With regard to strengthening transparency and ethics in parliamentarianism, Convergence i Unió has repeatedly advocated the need to regulate lobbies or interest groups in order to follow the lead of the legislative process. A motion for a resolution was even adopted, driven by our parliamentary group in the 2013 state of the nation debate, to regulate the registration of lobbies, but once again the Government failed to comply with resolutions adopted by this House, a failure that undermines and undermines the democratic quality and confidence of citizens in politics and its institutions. To this day there is no registration of lobbies in the General Courts or in the other institutions of the State. In the study paper on the reform of the Regulation, Convergence and Union repeatedly insisted on the need for registration. We make very clear and concrete proposals, because we believe that it is an important and effective instrument to improve transparency but also to fight corruption, but again, as in so many other things, the response of the People's Group has been silence. In short, Convergence i Unió considers the socialist proposal to be pure gesticulation. The presentation of the Rules of Procedure is already in place to address a deeper reform of the rules governing the functioning of the House. Unfortunately, the work of this paper is paralysed by the inability of the People's Party and the Socialist Party to make progress on the agreements, there is no real will to reform the Rules of Procedure. We share with the Socialist Group the need to reform...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u136	Mrs. Surroca, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u137	I'm finishing up, Madam President. ... popular legislative initiatives, but in a much broader sense than that proposed by the Socialist Group. However, we are not opposed to the process of this initiative and we will vote in favour of it being taken into consideration because it is necessary to descale the reform of the popular legislative initiative in order to encourage citizen participation in the legislative process, which should be done within a broader framework than that of the mere reform of the precepts of the Rules of Congress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. Mrs Serrano, for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is in favour of strengthening democracy by maximising citizen participation. That is why we have done it, because in the People's Party we are of doing it; we are neither of us nor of those who when we were able to do it because we did not want to do it or because we did not know it. Having said that and reading the proposal that the Socialist Group has brought, my first feelings are surprising and, if I may say so, also outraged. Surprised because what they are asking for has just been done, but it is not that it has been done during this legislature, it is that it has been approved on 30 March, less than a month ago. Besides, what you're asking us to do when you ruled didn't. You in the 2004-2008 legislature amended the popular legislative initiative and did not do so in the sense that you are claiming now, but it is that in the Organic Law 3/2015, on control of the economic and financial activity of political parties, in the third final provision, this is regulated and has been approved, as I have already said, exactly on 30 March 2015, very recently. So, surprise. And I am also surprised that you expressed your agreement when the report of that presentation was discussed precisely. This was expressed by the group that comes to propose it here today; the person who represented it, Don José Enrique Serrano, not only agreed, but also made it explicit in the debate itself saying that they were claiming it. That is to say, the group that was in agreement less than a month ago is now coming to propose exactly the opposite, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that it is only necessary to take the 'Diary of Sessions' of 15 January and read page 31, where Mr Serrano explains it by saying that it was also a claim of the Socialist Party, that the Socialist Party, you, are not becoming that which is so fashionable of parties persona: that depending on whether the person is in fashion we are going to one party and if the person is no longer in fashion we are going to another. I hope that your ideas and ideologies will be supported by the whole group and that Mr Serrano will have the same ideology and ideas as the rest of you. [[Applauds]] I am also surprised that you rose very recently from the Rules of Procedure, but I am going to tell you that lately it is less surprising to me, because we are used to seeing how you have given the scare or raised yourselves from the agreements in the Transparency Act or how you have risen when we have been debating the reform of the Criminal Code or how you have risen when 70 measures have been implemented, a very important package for the democratic regeneration of this country. I am not surprised that you rose from the presentation of the Rules of Procedure, breaking the serious work and the will of all those who were there, since there was a clear will for consensus, but let me tell you that it causes me indignation that with the one that is falling in this country, with the problems that we Spanish people have, very serious problems, very quiet problems, real problems, problems of almost survival on some occasions, are incapable, by the color of the shirt or by partisan, strategic or tactical positions, not to agree to solve the problems that the Spanish people demand. You will agree with me that it is outrageous that when the bleeding of unemployment was falling, when school failure was 30%, when in the lack of transparency we are suffering some very serious cases of corruption with great impunity in many of them, when we were approving in the worst of cases more than 60 or 65% of all your suggestions, you, on a partisan issue, do not agree, do not rush to work, to solve the problems of all the Spaniards, which is what we are here for. [[Applauds]] It was already said by Concepcion Arenal, that very great writer our nineteenth-century Galician; it said that when the forces add up for good, they do not add up, but multiply. But we don't need to go to Concepción Arenal or the 19th century, we read in the "Diario de Sesiones" on January 14 of this year what Don Enrique Serrano, his colleague, said; he said exactly the same thing, that we should get everything out of our heads to help improve our political system and our democratic system. The proposal that you bring us here today has been widely debated; since the People's Parliamentary Group tabled the amendments to amend the People's Legislative Initiative on 18 December until 30 March, which was adopted. We have been discussing it for three and a half months and now you are proposing to change — look at what you want to change, look at your respect for this democracy — what was approved here on 30 March by the majority of this House, that you do not forget that we are the representatives of what the majority of citizens want and what you also agreed to; and now you come here to change it. It is absolutely unheard of, and that is why we reject it. I wonder, why are you doing this? If you just approved with the majority that is legitimized, why are you now proposing a different thing? I understand that you can only obey a lack of ideas and do the hacking or you may be looking for photography permanently or you may be trying to follow that government's strategy of wear or you may be frightened by some populism that has been eating from you on the left... I don't know, but what I do know is that it doesn't defend the interests of the Spanish, and as it is also something that has recently been supported by the legitimacy that this House has, logically what we are going to ask of you from the People's Parliamentary Group is to withdraw it. That they withdraw it by consistency, seriousness and responsibility. Consistency because the Organic Act on the control of the activities of political parties already modifies the popular legislative initiative, precisely by enhancing and encouraging citizen participation and the state of the channel. By consistency and seriousness, because the Rules of Procedure of the House themselves, in Article 44(4), say that when experts have to appear, for example, they do so through the committees because they are sectoral aspects, and so it has been done on unbalanced issues such as, for example, the reform of the Criminal Code or the Transparency Act, with the appearance of experts in the relevant committee. By consistency and seriousness, since the Constitution, which I believe you mentioned at the outset, in Article 87(3) says precisely that matters which are of organic law cannot be regulated by popular legislative initiative; it excludes them and leaves them only for ordinary matters whose normal course, as it cannot otherwise be, is the Commission. And also for consistency and seriousness because in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure we all agreed and repeated it to the point of satiety. This is a political forum and here comes the political debates; the technical and sectoral debates go to the Commission. Therefore, for consistency, seriousness and also responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is time for responsibility. If you have been a party of government and want to remain a party that one day has the opportunity to govern, you must begin to have the responsibility to defend the interests of the Spaniards, which is what we all care about, not just being against what the People's Party proposes, because that is what I am seeing in recent times that unites the whole left. It unites you, Socialist Party gentlemen, with the plural and varied left, with the radical and nationalist left of those who are here, with those who are not here, those of the absolutely nightly and very radical ideas, and I do not know if to the left again. But what brings you all closer together is us, the People's Party. It is, all against the People's Party. That's his ideology, that's his ideas lately. All against the People's Party. For they are wrong because we are the party of the people, we are the party of the middle classes and we will continue to work because many philosophers have already said it and I think they have taught us all: only working constancy will make the works bear fruit. I do not know whether this position of yours is the product of those populisms which come to you on the left and which cause you to be placed not only in party but again in populism, rather than in Parliament. What do you put on...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u140	Mrs. Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u141	I'm finishing up. Thank you, President. Or that you put more on the picture than on the job. Well, in the People's Party, we're going to keep working. In the PP to work, in the PP to do to grow because for that we are here, to give opportunities to all Spaniards. Let's remember everyone who put us here to work for and for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applause.—Silby in the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u142	Please, we're not in a football game! TAKES INTO ACCOUNT PROPOSALS FOR LAW: — the Catalan parliamentary group, on the reform of the corporation tax to recover the investment tax with environmental targets. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 122/000182]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u143	We turn to the second item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on company tax reform to replace the deduction for investments with environmental improvement objectives. [[Convergence and Union]] For your defense, Mr. Sánchez i Llibre. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Catalan Parliamentary Group is putting before this House a proposal for a law to try to reform the company tax in order to replace the deduction of environmental investments to encourage investment, competitiveness and, at the same time, the consolidation and generation of jobs. [[Convergence and Union]] This parliamentary initiative pursues relevant objectives. One of the basic, fundamental and relevant objectives of this Convergence i Union initiative is to achieve as quickly as possible the reindustrialization of our country so that it can be based and consolidated on solid foundations, such as these mechanisms which are in the direction of promoting investment, as well as to consolidate this reindustrialization with maximum standards of quality in all those aspects which refer to topics proposed and oriented by the European Union which are aimed at greater convergence with the dictates of Europe. Therefore, a first positive, relevant and important point, from our point of view, is to achieve this reindustrialization of our country in order to move towards the modernization of the productive structures on which the Spanish economy can be based in the medium and long term. There is another no less relevant and important aspect that we also consider fundamental, which is to stimulate the green economy, proposing measures so that, in the immediate future and also from a long and medium-term perspective, those aspects that are in the direction of increasing industrial pollution can be prevented. For this reason, we understand that it would be necessary for this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, through its parliamentary groups, to be able to give important support to this initiative that we are presenting. On the first issue, we believe that the replenishment of this tax incentive is an easy way for the government to align with Community mandates, facilitating the achievement of the objectives that Europe demands of the Member States with two very concrete examples that I will quickly detail. Firstly, on energy, as you all know, one of the objectives of the European Union is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% in 2030 compared to 1990. In this regard, it is clear that it is urgent to review our policies in the face of climate change in order to adapt them to the new Community objectives. In the short term, it is easy to see that one of these proposals which would help to achieve this objective is to encourage companies to invest in environmental improvement objectives on a fiscal basis. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it has been a mistake to abolish this deduction from corporate tax, as the Government has done in the recent tax reform, because, in our view, it means moving away from the policies that allow us to converge with Europe, because we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that in the coming years the European Union is going to require more investment in all aspects of the environment: investing in emission reductions, investing in energy efficiency. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us start here; let us begin today with the reintroduction of this fiscal mechanism which is in the direction of being able to promote and produce cleaner energy. The second aspect that we consider relevant is related to energy and that is also what we are going to propose from an industrial point of view. Europe calls for increasing the European weight of industrial GDP over general GDP, for us to bet on industry but to encourage sustainable industry, not contaminant, ladies and gentlemen. Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions — integrated pollution prevention and control — proposes ambitious requirements which must respect industrial activities with the greatest potential for pollution in order to achieve a high level of environmental and health protection. These requirements include the need for industrial installations to use the best available techniques, which we could sum up as BAT. Europe requires industries to apply the most effective techniques to achieve a high overall level of environmental protection as a whole. That, for practical purposes, ladies and gentlemen, for you to have information, means that some 5,400 companies throughout the Spanish State will have to make significant investments in the next eight years. How are you going to do that, ladies and gentlemen, if the state, which on the one hand wants to increase the weight of industry in GDP, reduces a number of investments in the direction of less pollution, more clean energy and more competitiveness? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not adopt this initiative with the favourable vote of all the parliamentary groups, Spain will find itself in a situation of unfair competition with other countries of the Union which do enjoy these tax incentives, such as the United Kingdom, Sweden, Germany, Norway, Belgium and so on. The third reason why we have brought this initiative to this debate is because we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposed fiscal incentive is a rapid way of reinvigorating the green economy; a stimulus that goes in the direction of encouraging, generating, consolidating stable employment and productive wealth from a sustainable perspective with regard to the environment, something that at the current juncture is very important according to the Convergence i Unió criterion. In our view, ladies and gentlemen, environmental taxation must have a dual objective, as we have proposed on different occasions, which is to generate economic incentives for good environmental management or behaviour and to discourage certain actions and/or behaviours. It is therefore essential to have a tax that discourages certain behaviours but encourages practices that enhance investments that come from pollution. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, a number of taxes, taxes, environmental taxes, taxes on hydrocarbons, electricity, gas, etc. have been generated over the past few years, and it is true that all these taxes are corrective measures, i.e. they penalise companies after pollution has occurred. The use of a policy of establishing environmental charges, taxes or taxes on the polluter is, in our view, insufficient to ensure that polluting companies stop polluting, that is, the burden has become, ladies and gentlemen, one more element of the cost of the product passed on to the customer. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of environmental charges that follow the criterion that polluter pays is not the only way to reduce the impact of companies on the environment, but quite the contrary; we must tend to focus on the implementation of pollution prevention measures in accordance with the principle of pollution prevention, as set out in a wide range of legislation, as I have just explained to you in my intervention, which are perfectly reflected in the EU Directive 2010/75, which I mentioned earlier. Environmental taxation, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of Convergence i Unió, is a complementary means of contributing to the protection and protection of the environment and is articulated around tax figures whose purpose, ladies and gentlemen, is solely and exclusively to stimulate and encourage behaviour more respectful of the natural environment. There is another aspect to this proposal for a law that we have already put forward in different parliamentary initiatives. On the basis that all that is to promote the green economy, all that is to promote clean energy, all that is to promote energy in order to be able to meet the objectives for 2030, we can incorporate a relevant deduction, in our view, such as including 10 % of the investments for the acquisition of new industrial road vehicles with a Euro-superior category, which will contribute to the reduction of air pollution. The aim is to recover a beneficial deduction to meet the environmental objectives of sustainable transport set by the European Commission and the Spanish Government itself. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of trying to correct some of the Government's approaches, as we have done on different occasions, such as in the debate on the state of the nation by our spokesman, Mr Duran i Lleida, and also in the budget debate, in which our spokesman, Pere Macias, had a magnificent speech and explained to Minister Montoro and to the President of the Government the specificities that could change the Government's thinking on environmental deductions that were so far contained in Spanish tax legislation. At that time we thought it was a mistake to continue in that direction; we failed to change it and the Government continued in the direction proposed by them to eradicate from our tax legislation 8% of the deductions that went to gross fixed capital formation in environmental matters. Both in the meetings with Minister Montoro and in the speeches to the President of the Government, we have always maintained the possibility of changing the government and the parliamentary group that supports it before the end of this term, so that we can reintroduce fiscal measures that go in the direction of increasing investment, that go in the direction of consolidating in certain aspects jobs that are key because otherwise probably these industries that are not going to be competitive are going to relocate and we are going to lose those jobs and, more importantly, from the perspective of modernising the Spanish business and productive structures, it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to have modern tax legislation, just as the countries of the European Union that I have just mentioned have. I conclude by asking all of you, above all the People's Parliamentary Group, which supports the Government, a change of approach, a change of direction so that this proposal for a law is a reality and finally we can have European mechanisms and modern mechanisms so that this reindustrialization and modernisation of our business and productive structures can be approved by many countries of the European Union. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u146	Thank you, President. I will speak very briefly from the seat to fix our position on the proposal for a law that is being brought to this House today for debate and vote by the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]] Ladies and gentlemen of Convergence and Union, we fully share the philosophy and the proposal made by your parliamentary group in this bill. Respect for and preservation of the environment, of course, must be one of our political priorities. The idea of sustainable, resource-efficient and environmentally friendly growth is no longer questioned; in our view, it is accepted and promoted. The use of environmental taxation to promote sustainable growth is therefore both a success and a policy obligation. To encourage companies that make investments that avoid pollution and are environmentally friendly by means of tax deductions is a policy that has been of the past, it has to be of the future, but it is not of the present in the Spanish State, taking into account the framework of corporation tax. It is good that these incentives, benefits to citizens, the environment and the economic performance of companies committed to these objectives are recovered. In Euskadi, the three outlaws apply these tax deductions to companies' investments for environmental purposes. Thus, for example, Article 65 of Bizkaia's foreground tax rule refers precisely to this deduction for investments and expenditure linked to projects that promote sustainable development, conservation and improvement of the environment and the more efficient use of energy sources. In addition, the deductions to be applied — as proposed by CiU's proposed law — are to investments which are considered in a list which comes from the Basque Government in reference to clean technologies, which are those which can be subsidized. We therefore agree with the content of the proposed law 100 per cent. However, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, as you well know, is faithful to our custom of abstaining from voting on those tax matters whose regulations correspond to the outlying finances of the historic territories, we will do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Anchuelo has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, political logic differs greatly from Aristotelian logic and any subsequent logic. Political logic allows approaches such as wanting to increase income but at the same time no one pays more, allows approaches such as wanting to cut expenditure and no one gets hurt, or allows approaches such as being above average; approaches that are difficult to achieve even with an absolute majority. I say this because this political logic, Mr Sánchez i Llibre, also applies to the problem that you are raising today. There is a fairly widespread agreement among specialists that there is an excessive number of deductions in our tax system, that there is excessive tax expenditure, and that about €40 billion, four points of GDP, is no longer paid each year as a result of these deductions. In general fiscal policy discussions there is a fairly broad agreement on this issue. However, when it is necessary to specify in which deductions to remove, the agreement disappears, and even some disappeared want to reimplant. It is a little contradictory to want to reduce the tax costs caused by deductions without getting rid of any and even increasing them. We share, as it cannot be otherwise, the environmental concern behind this initiative. The problem of climate change is something with overwhelming scientific evidence, it is incorporated into the European 2020 strategy and the climate challenge can be seen as an opportunity for the future industrialization in sectors related to the green economy. All that, of course, we share; the question is what are the best instruments to achieve these objectives. The instrument that you propose to us, the tax deductions of the kind that you propose to us, have important drawbacks; many specialists consider them costly and insufficient. Why inefficient? Because on many occasions companies make these investments for other reasons, legal regulations, for example, and do not change the behaviour of the tax incentive, they behave the same; the only difference that the tax incentive entails is that they reduce their costs by obviously increasing the costs for the public finance. This will be of interest to you as a SME advocate, as this type of discount is of fundamental benefit to large companies. They usually don't change their behavior and cost public finances, so they're expensive and inefficient. On the other hand, there are very different alternatives to achieve these ends. In the fiscal sphere, the orthodox thing, when there is a negative external effect such as pollution, is to internalize the cost, that is, to tax the polluter, not to deduct. That is the orthodox response in the Public Finance against a negative external effect, internalizing the cost. There are other tax policy measures. Posts to tax incentives, why don't we encourage families to rehabilitate their homes and make them more energy efficient? A proposal by the Progressive Union and Democracy is that the IBI, the property tax, should be shaped according to the energy efficiency of housing, which would, by the way, create employment in a depressed sector so far, as has been the case with construction. Out of the fiscal sphere, other possible alternatives have to do with regulation, with the change in environmental legislation and, of course, with action via energy policy. As can be seen, there are multiple possibilities of sharing these objectives more efficiently than the one proposed. On his initiative, rather than the specific proposal, we are interested in reopening the debate on corporation tax which, in our view, was closed in error when tax reform was debated in this House. We believe that corporate tax, as it emerged from that tax reform, has major problems. Firstly, there are some essential tax principles that do not respect; for example, there are some costs that businesses cannot reflect as such, which causes the tax benefit to differ from the real economic benefit. I'm thinking about the provisions for deterioration and how they're treated. Another problem has to do with nominal gains, which are not corrected by inflation. Thus, as inflationary effects are not adequately corrected, fictitious gains are being taxed. A third essential tax principle that is not respected is to avoid double taxation of dividends. Along with these essential principles that are not respected, we are concerned that the different routes of circumvention have not been closed sufficiently. In Spain we talk a lot about tax fraud, and rightly so, but we forget the tax avoidance, important and different, which is to avoid paying taxes within the law, taking advantage of the holes provided by the tax system. To close these holes, these ways of tax avoidance, in the company tax, would be interesting, as we proposed in the tax reform, if the collective investment institutions, including the famous Sicav, were to tax under a regime of transparency, that is, that the profits were imputed to the partners when they were generated in order to prevent them from indefinitely deferring the payment of taxes. It is also important to combat the interposition of merely instrumental societies. One last issue that I quote for its topicality has to do with the treatment of deferred tax assets, of which we have read again in the press over the last few weeks. We proposed, during the tax reform, greater control of these deferred tax assets, that the Tax Agency be more likely to verify that the conditions are met in order to be able to require them from the Administration. We will be voting in favour of taking account of this proposal for a law in the sense that I have expressed, as a possibility of reopening the debate on corporate tax, which, in our view, was closed in error when the tax reform was debated. Our vote will be in favour of this and, if it is accepted, we will amend the proposal that you bring us in the terms I have mentioned. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset we want to make it clear that we share the motivation that Convergence i Unite has in its proposal for a law, namely: To advance environmental policy, using the instrument of fiscal policy for this purpose. We share this objective, among other things, because our group, La Izquierda Plural, has been presenting different initiatives during this legislature; by the way, it has already been done by comrade Joan Herrera in the previous one, when the then government proceeded to the progressive elimination of tax deductions with the commitment to develop a green taxation, which was then never fulfilled. This country continues to need an environmental policy worthy of this name and green taxation is a good instrument, especially because we should not forget that Spain is one of the countries of the European Union with the lowest green taxation, 1.83% of GDP, according to the 2013 Eurostat data, only behind Lithuania. Only that should cause us to reflect on the value given to the environment in this country. So far we have come to our coincidences about environmental taxation proposed by Convergence i Unió. Again, in an old speech, it contrasts the environment with industrial competitiveness, and that is to have a concept as old as the possibility of using the environment in competitive terms. This obsolete view was already made clear at the time, when CiU was in favour of the abolition of the fluorinated gas tax, on the argument that this would lead to a decline in competitiveness, when it is clear — and the European Commission says so expressly — that a green tax and this type of action is not only the most efficient way for sustainable development, but also for job creation, bearing in mind that the great employment site of the 21st century will most likely be the one for sustainability. We openly disagree with a fiscal policy that has been retaliated and constantly changing, and also with the orientation of the proposals and policies sponsored by CiU in relation to corporate tax. Let me make a general reflection here. Spain has one of the world's most cadaverous and unjust tax systems. It is variegated because of its low collection capacity: 8% less of GDP than the EU average. That means that if we could close that gap — which is certainly not a matter of a day or a year — and put ourselves on the average of the European Union, this country would have about EUR 8 billion more revenue to be able to develop many policies. In addition to being cadaveric, our tax system is profoundly unfair, because to the fiscal insufficiency — which is already unfair, because it does not allow public policies, social policies — it joins that it continues to fall too much on the incomes of labour and consumption, to which it penalizes, while protecting the incomes of capital, property or taxation on societies in different fields. From this point of view, in this policy of defiscalization and corporate tax, CiU has played a leading role and I want to recognize it: whatever government was in Spain, of the color it was, CiU has always used its capacity of influence to influence that tax system and to do so, in our view, more unjust and insufficient. It has done so directly affecting citizens and also affecting the whole of autonomous communities, in Catalonia, because if the cake is small, the part of the cake that belongs to the autonomous communities is also so; otherwise it is very difficult. In this sense, it would be good for CiU to stop crying in Catalonia about the consequences of the policies it has voted on, when not driven from Spain. I think I remember that the last time was in 2007, in relation to corporate tax. It was you who were most interested in reforming that tax, as always, for such a laudable purpose as today, which is to take precedence over small and medium-sized enterprises and reduce their real rate. And they did, they lowered the real corporate tax rate for small and medium-sized enterprises to 25%, but as a result of this policy of making corporate tax a thing similar to grueyère cheese — sorry: emmental, which has more holes than cheese — they have become co-participants and co-protagonists of a phenomenon by which SMEs currently have a legal rate of 25% and an effective rate that reaches barely 22%, when large companies, with the legal rate of 30%, have an effective rate that has fallen in some years or in some financial institutions up to 10%. In that sense, I can only agree with Mr Alvaro Anchoelo, when he said that just one of the problems of our corporate tax is that process of permanent erosion, via deductions, which is constantly occurring and which does not change the behaviour of companies. As with social security bonuses and deductions, all it does is reward companies that had already made a decision on many occasions to make that cost lower. From that perspective, they now present us again with this same approach and they do so within a few months of this Congress having passed a company tax law that certainly closed the debate in error, but it did so with an approach that was to reduce the legal rate at the cost of significantly reducing the possibilities of deduction in the company tax. But if in December the legal rate is lowered and in April you are already trying to incorporate new deductions, the process is a new erosion factor of the effective rate of corporation tax. I sincerely believe that this is not the approach. If you want to discuss this issue, let's discuss it and let's do it in full: corporate tax and environmental taxation. We are going to do it in its entirety, not in pieces: today I bite from here, tomorrow I bite from there and, in the end, there is nothing left to bite and, when there is nothing left to bite in taxation, that means that the capacity of the State to decide is limited. We understand that this is the reflection that needs to be done. However, as you propose a law and today we are discussing your simple consideration, we will accept the invitation and we will vote in favour, saying at the outset that the only thing we are in favour of is that it is discussed and then, in the content, we will put forward our proposals. From that point of view, I would simply like to recall three axes of our approach: first, if we want to move forward with the European 2020 strategy, which you cite in your explanatory statement, the first thing that must be avoided is that there is fiscal dumping, defiscalisation downwards, using the environmental argument and, therefore, a process of European fiscal harmonisation also in the environmental aspects is essential. By the way, alert: If you push forward the famous transatlantic trade and investment treaty, it is very likely that what happens is exactly the opposite, that harmonisation is done, but not by political institutions but by the market and down. The second point to be retained from the point of view that we are putting forward on this subject, I say again, is that we cannot have a debate on the whole, on the whole, because the final result is a result in which the objective that is said to be maintained is absolutely disfigured. The third axis of our environmental tax policy is that a balance must be struck between those environmental policies that encourage certain behaviours and those that discourage them. You give us a reflection in your bill which is as follows: Whoever pollutes the most pays more and who pollutes the least pays less. However, when it comes to putting this issue into practice, you only find it in the operative part where the polluter pays less, but there is not a single paragraph that says how it is expressed that the polluter pays more. Besides, it seems to me that you have misunderstood that maxim, that you confuse it. Their approach could lead us to confuse the principle that the polluter pays for the one who can afford to pay is allowed to pollute and pollute, and that certainly cannot be addressed in those terms. In any case, I will take the positive side, and that is that we are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, although, as I say to you, we have a radically contrary position both to your approach to corporate tax and to your understanding of environmental taxation. But, well, that's what the debate is for, to discuss. The People's Party now has the floor. I hope that you will not be afraid to reopen that debate in favourable terms and that I will vote in favour of Convergence and Union — let me ask you to take a good look at what I am asking you, that you vote in favour of Convergence and Union — that is, that I will vote in favour of the right to be able to discuss this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. For the Socialist Group, Mr González Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u152	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this proposal for a law which today brings us Convergence i Unió on the reform of corporation tax to replace the investment deduction in environmental protection, which must be remembered that it was eliminated by the government's tax reform. It will count on the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as an expression of the will to carry out a reform of this tax figure on environmental taxation. We would support certain reductions in tax burdens on companies if we were to build both a fiscal policy that would promote greater environmental sustainability and efficient growth in the use of our natural resources and we were to meet the objectives of the 2020 strategy, which seeks to harmonize economic recovery and dynamism such as that which Spain must achieve with the care of the environment. The protection of our environment and the search for greater entrepreneurial sensitivity in its relation to the environment is an unquestionable objective and becomes one of the great challenges that Spanish society has in the immediate future. As a general principle, the Socialist Group advocates a tax system capable of raising sufficient revenue to finance public welfare services and boost economic growth, but we must remember what has happened in this crisis. First, public revenue has fallen significantly, more than six points, falling well below the euro area average; in no other country in our environment has such a drop in income occurred. Secondly, Spain is one of the countries in the European Union with lower incomes than GDP, as other groups have already said. Specifically, Spain collected 37.5% of GDP in 2013 compared to 46.6% in the euro area. With the current level of collection, it is very difficult to reduce the high structural deficit and public debt while at the same time recovering the quality of public services provided by our welfare State. As a third observation, corporate tax, in terms of collection, ranks 18th in the European Union, with 2.2 per cent of GDP in 2012. Corporate tax revenues were EUR 18,713 million in 2014, down 6.2 from the previous year. This tax has become the fourth tax figure in terms of collection capacity, behind excise duties. The recommendation made by the European Commission is the reconsideration of deductions, which reduce effective taxation in a very significant way and make SMEs, despite being subject to a lower rate, pay a higher effective rate than large companies. The Socialist Group therefore proposes a thorough, comprehensive and rigorous tax reform that affects the main tax figures, a reform that seeks to increase collection in a fair way, to bring us closer to the European average, to guarantee the welfare state and, above all, to correct the main imbalances, such as the excessive concentration of collection of labour income and the excessive kindness of the tax system with which great fortunes accrue and with the financial system. In the tax discussed here today, the company tax, our objective, that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is to establish a minimum tax on corporate tax for large companies, so that they help to recover the collection and stabilize it over time and really reform the structure of the tax, eliminating and reconsidering the deductions that primarily benefit large corporations, reduce effective taxation in a very significant way and make SMEs, despite being subject to a lower rate, pay a higher effective rate than large companies. As a general principle, Spain needs a deep tax reform and, above all, it needs to boost fiscal citizenship. At the very least, it is doubtful to qualify the recent reform of government corporation tax as a structural reform, rather than a mere reduction in tax rates. To affirm that the reform recomposes the basis of the tax affected by numerous exemptions and deductions of all kinds and, at the same time, to foresee a decrease in collection constitutes, in our view, an insurmountable contradiction to the reform of this tax figure. The Government itself recognizes that the approved reform implies a drop in the collection of some €3 billion, that is, a tax gift in full to the big corporations, while the self-employed are partially reduced by the withholdings that the Government itself had raised, but in no way are their taxes reduced. The consequence will be that the corporate tax in 2016 has had the lowest weight on GDP since the beginning of the crisis. It is therefore a tremendously unfair policy, which increases the economic gap in our country, which is already large and growing, through the transfer of income and welfare of workers and from a significant part of average income to high income and large corporations. The reform of the Government forgets two major elements of progressiveity: one, including wealth; two, the fight against fraud. Yes, here in the latter the fight against fraud and tax evasion are the great forgotten. This is because the fight against fraud has not been a priority for the Government throughout the legislature. In March 2012, by Royal Decree-Law 12/2012, the Rajoy government decided a fiscal amnesty, executed by Minister Montoro. The consequences of the tax amnesty are clear. It is a scandal that a government in the twenty-first century will bring to a democratic parliament a law that will be used as a gateway so that white-collar criminals and tax evaders can get away with criminal and fiscal rositas. What is truly serious and shameful is that a law passed in a Parliament can serve as a shelter for criminals. The unfair thing is that the defrauders paid a maximum of 3% of the regularized. The democratic regeneration that our country needs goes hand in hand, among many other issues, with the knowledge of the more than 30,000 defrauders who took up amnesty. Everything seems to point out that the amnesty was designed for friends and leaders of the People's Party: Barcens, Rat. In conclusion, with the amnesty, the Government opened a door to the defrauders, a door that was widening and expanding throughout the process. Here, at parliamentary level, it must be said very loudly that it is necessary to know the list of persons who have taken up the tax amnesty. The Rajoy Government can and should do so by political decency and without amending the General Tax Law, because it only has to comply with the provisions of article 95, paragraph 1 (e), according to which fraudsters can be known through the establishment of a commission of inquiry in the Congress of Deputies, a commission that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has been requesting since 2012. The People's Parliamentary Group has a magnificent opportunity to support the establishment of a commission of inquiry, because with the Rats, with the Barcens, Rajoy's fiscal amnesty, if it has demonstrated anything, is that the People's Party's summit has made politics its private business. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u153	Thank you very much, Mr González. Mrs Madrazo has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to refer to the words of the Socialist Group's spokesman from this rostrum, because he has made an absolutely torturing use of this Parliament and that is a deception to the citizens. He has spoken of an issue that is not the one we are dealing with right now and that is fraudulent use, bearing in mind that what we come to this Congress is to work to solve citizens' problems. [[Applauds]] Entering into the initiative that has been brought, which of course has nothing to do with the words that the spokesman of the Socialist Group has said, which will then be discussed at another point, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to stand against the initiative presented by CiU for a matter of coherence, obviously, coherence with a tax reform that entered into force, as you all know, on 1 January 2015 and that has entailed a substantial revision of our tax system and in particular of our direct taxation on both the IRPF and the company tax. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall in this rostrum what were the objectives of that reform, what was the spirit that inspired it. The fiscal reform of the Government, as we said at the time, has a primary and priority objective: to consolidate economic growth and job creation. And why has such a tax reform been raised now? Because this government has been able to correct the drift of economic recession and massive job destruction that the Socialist Party has brought to us, and it has achieved this with an economic policy based on sound management of public accounts and a continuous process of reforms that has allowed now to be the time to be able to lower taxes on citizens and families, now that we are leading economic growth and job creation within the European Union and now that Spain has been able to stand up thanks to the efforts of all. In particular, what changes has the Government brought about within this tax reform in the corporate tax system? The main one, which you all know and which has been mentioned in this rostrum, has been to substantially lower the nominal corporate tax rate, which will be 28% from 1 January 2015 and 25% from 2016. In this way, we make business in Spain more attractive and place our tax rates below our main trading partners, such as France, Italy or Germany. At the same time, in this context of rate reductions, corporate tax has been simplified. It has been simplified by eliminating tax deductions that are ineffective and inefficient to achieve the objectives for which these tax incentives were raised. The Spanish company tax before the reform, as has already been mentioned here, was characterized by the existence of high nominal rates in relation to the countries in our environment, while very low effective rates, especially for those companies that were able to optimize the set of deductions envisaged in the company tax, which, normally, Mr Socialist Group spokesman, were the large business groups, which with the Socialist Government, as we have denounced from this rostrum on many occasions, managed to pay zero taxes in the company tax. And they have little shame coming here to criticize this government's fiscal policy! This configuration was totally unfair and inefficient and therefore the philosophy behind this reform has been to simplify tax deductions while significantly lowering corporate tax rates, encouraging both domestic and foreign investment in our country with rates that are more competitive in a context of growing international competition. In particular, in this context, the deduction which CiU proposes to re-implant: the deduction for environmental investments disappears. The People's Parliamentary Group does not consider it appropriate or reasonable to resubmit this deduction, firstly, because Spain, as you know, is part of the European strategy on the environment, within the new climate and energy framework for the period 2020-2030, and that strategy has also been committed by the Government of Spain. This implies increasing environmental requirements, so it is not necessary to encourage tax behaviour which in the not too distant future will be compulsory for all economic operators. Secondly, we understand that the care of the environment and the sustainable use of our resources is an objective that we all share in this House — as many speakers have already said — but we believe that it should be another type of incentive and another type of policy that should guide this type of action, because the use of tax incentives as a tool to change certain behaviours that are not environmentally friendly is not always effective, and tax incentives, ladies and gentlemen, find their main justification for the existence of imbalances that exist in the market, and must be based on principles of neutrality in the behaviour of economic actors. On the other hand, the use of tax incentives to promote this type of environmental investment has traditionally been questioned, mainly because the data show that the multiplier and beneficial effect of these investments does not usually compensate for the reduction in tax revenues that these deductions produce, because, according to the 2014 data, for example, this deduction affects only 298 taxpayers, in addition to an amount of EUR 12 million, which in the corporate tax structure accounts for only 0.4% of the total tax benefits of the same. However, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government do not give up on initiatives that encourage appropriate use and sustainable and environmentally friendly use. We believe it is appropriate — and some speakers have said so in the rostrum — that a real reform of environmental taxation should be addressed in the future, eliminating the wide variety of taxes from the autonomous communities and local entities, so as to encourage environmentally friendly behaviour. It should be geared towards establishing tax bases based on potential CO2 emissions, so as to ensure the neutrality of our tax system. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group will vote against this initiative, not because we do not agree with the need to take care of our environment, which of course we are; not because we are not as eco-friendly as the most, which of course we are, but we understand that enhancing the respectful and sustainable uses of our resources must come from the hand of other policies, such as those being launched by the Government of Spain, for example with the Spanish Enterprise and Biodiversity Initiative, to promote corporate social responsibility of private entities in the conservation of our natural heritage. I would also like to make two considerations with regard to the taxation of environmental expenditure, because in the reform of corporate tax, expenditure on environmental action is considered deductible, provided that it complies with a number of requirements that will be developed on a regulatory basis. Therefore, this type of incentive for investment or environmental action is not entirely eliminated, and even the Ministry of Finance is considering the possibility of introducing some kind of tax incentives, some kind of deductions related to investment in our mountains, to forestry investment in the parliamentary process of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say that the Government is clearly committed to the preservation of our natural heritage, and is promoting initiatives that promote that conservation, but we think that other policies are more effective in achieving the objectives that we all share in this House, also the People's Parliamentary Group, and that go far beyond a deduction on corporate tax. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group will vote against taking this initiative into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs Madrazo. PROPOSALS NO LAW: — the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the Open Government Strategy. [[File number 162/001211]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u156	We turn to the third item on the agenda concerning non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the open government strategy. Mrs González Veracruz has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me as an open government activist to present this non-legislative proposal on the national open government strategy today. But it is also very important for my parliamentary group, because my group believes that the exercise of democracy must necessarily be better, stronger and more mature. Let me humbly say that I believe that this debate is very important for this House, the house of sovereignty of the people. It is our responsibility as representatives of the people to change institutions. At a crucial moment we have to live up to what the citizens are demanding of us. I am not saying anything new when I say that Spain has suffered the greatest institutional crisis since the arrival of our democracy. Political disaffection is brutal. Citizens speak of politics out there, but they do not feel represented by us, by the people they vote for, and the truth is that I am not surprised; I am not surprised that this has been even more serious and intense in the last four years by how this government has developed the exercise of absolute majority, how they have changed a model of public television, plural, to what we are seeing right now, or how they make the decree-law, one Friday after another, their way of doing politics. The further the Rajoy government moves away from democratic best practices, the more necessary it is for Spain to assume an open government strategy. It is urgent and necessary. Many of us have believed this for a long time, but now it is even more because of the context I describe. We must build among all a stronger democracy, a much better democracy where together citizens count. That is why urgent reforms must be thoroughly addressed. The Government, public administrations, the legislative branch and politics have to be opened. There's nothing left but to open up. We have a duty to move forward at the same speed as citizens and society do. It turns out that there are empowered citizens who believe, who participate, who grow together, and the representatives of the public we have to be at that level and at the level of what they ask of us, which is ultimately part of politics and decision-making. And because we have to open it, we have to rethink our institutions, and we have talked here today about the reform of the House's Rules of Procedure. We have to recover without fear the real raison d'être of the administrations, which is the vocation of public service, the attention to the citizenry. And honestly the connection every day is weaker between these administrations and citizenship, something we cannot afford. If we take into account the arrival of the Internet, of social networks, the collaborative initiatives of citizens increasingly linked to politics, it is essential and urgent that we connect and that citizens also collaborate in this that we love, which is politics. For all this it is essential to push forward the state strategy of open government. I stop for a minute to define, to ask us what the open government is. It's a philosophy, it's a different way of exercising political leadership with people. This is what many mayors in their municipalities have done for many years. This is what Manuel Pérez Castel, who was the deputy and mayor of Albacete, with the participatory budgets, did from the very beginning, or how he led himself at the time in Barcelona. And it is also those steps that have been taken in our country as when, during one of the socialist stages, the declarations of property of members of the Government, this House and the Senate were published. Open government is a close government, a government for and with citizens, that listens and fears no one's participation. Open government is empowering citizens and accountability of politicians, governments and administrations. It is ultimately transparency, participation and collaboration, and above all, ladies and gentlemen, open government is possible; it has been doing so, exercising and leading Obama since 2009. We also have successful experiences in our country, more local and smaller, but also very representative and pioneering as was the one led by Patxi López in Euskadi with the Irekia platform, and others in Navarre, Extremadura or also Andalusia. It was in 2011 with the Socialist Government when we were part of the International Alliance for the Open Government, and where we assumed and subscribed to the declaration of the Open Government; when the Aporta project for data opening and re-use of data from the public sector was created. But today we have to run more — and he explained the reasons previously — and of course it is not worth covering files or launching portals — which may seem to be neither open nor participatory nor transparent, such as the Rajoy Government's transparency portal. The Government's plans of action are also insufficient, because, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the open government is not e-government, it is much more. By the way, in e-government you have also reduced and reversed positions in participation and e-democracy in the four years you are in government. In short, real open government requires real transparency; and transparency is not a gesture when you have cases of inexplicable corruption; and transparency is not a portal like yours that has nothing to do with a transparency portal, and in which you have certainly not yet published more than two hundred high offices that by law—by the Transparency Act—have had to have their property declarations on that same portal. Transparency is active and non-passive transparency. We defend publication and active advertising, from the point of view that citizens' right to information is a right that is not fully respected in our country. Transparency and real open governance is a data-opening strategy, and it is a portal of transparency in conditions, which cannot be a mere repository of documents. And open government is also participation and collaboration, for what is essential is an open governance platform that goes far beyond what is the transparency portal, which is a platform in which you can have a great citizen conversation with the public authorities, that is, that you can evaluate programs, policies and public services, that you can participate in the General Budgets of the State, that citizens can promote their own initiatives, and that of course you can interact with public offices, as some of us already do individually and by conviction. In short, it is not a punctual thing to respond one day to an email or an initiative; it is to incorporate all the talent that exists in our society into the development of public policies and of the State itself. There are many things I could say and little time I have: training plans, fighting the digital divide, culture of participation, but above all, and the most important and the biggest deficit I see for the open government in the 21st century in our country, is political leadership. Where it worked is because there has been political leadership since the presidency of the government: in the United States with Obama, in Euskadi with Patxi López, and here for Spain to be at the forefront of democratic countries is what we would need. Today there are many young people listening to us in plenary...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u158	Mrs. Gonzalez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u159	I'm done. One second. There are many young people listening to us at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies and they are sure that this sounds like free software, data opening, and open formats. Perhaps many of your ladies and gentlemen have not yet heard of it, but the citizens practice it. There is a new culture of participation that this Congress has to analyze and that the Government has to push. That is why I ask for your support for the rest of the groups, and with the little hope that I have left of the People's Party, because I understand that those who do not know how to govern today, with the democratic quality that is supposed to be, with much more difficulty will understand what the open government is. But I still ask you to understand it, to listen to us, and to feel like developing a real strategy of open government that puts our country at the forefront of participation as it deserves. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs González. Only one amendment has been tabled by the Basque Parliamentary Group. Mr Esteban has the floor for his defence. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u161	I have five minutes, Madam Vice-President, but I think I will have some left, because today I have no special desire to intervene from the rostrum. With so much mouse scandal, wind, etc., that we're seeing every day I've got a bad body, and on top of that we need to talk about citizen participation. Anyway, I don't know, the caching and low-seriousness that this country is showing with the news coming up, I hope at some point it changes. [[The Lord]] It seems to me to be a timely initiative, and although I believe that the Government has taken an important step with the transparency portal, that is certainly not all and is very partial, especially with the possibilities offered by technology today, and because it has to be an interactive process and a process of turn-around, and that is what the Socialist Group is proposing. On the one hand, what is done is right, but it will have to be perfected, the portal has to be more flexible and easier when it comes to accessing it and locating information. To that end, the advice that is overseeing it should be heard, and those measures that citizens request the Government to implement should be implemented effectively in the shortest possible time. Today an open government demands much more than all of that, requires interaction with citizens, not only that they can collect data, but that there is a dialogue, that there is feedback between them. We should therefore be effectively talking about platforms of interaction, of accountability, and getting some sort of permanent space of interaction between the Administration — in this case it would be the General Administration of the State, but the same can be said of other administrations, starting with the autonomous communities — and citizenship so that we come to a participatory and co-responsible management in public action, where the principles of transparency and accountability are the winners. With our rather prolific amendment, we have tried to develop the points of the Socialist proposal, and this has been understood, and it seems to me that it will be accepted with a small modification to specify a matter semantically. If we need a platform to inform, to show and coordinate citizens' contributions, to promote bi-directional dialogue, so that citizens can address the public administration, both by proposing initiatives and by expressing themselves about what the administration proposes. Participation must be reflected in the definition of public programmes and policies, in the evaluation of policies and the quality of public services, in the elaboration of general provisions, in promoting regulatory initiatives, in making allegations and observations in public exposure proceedings, etc., which are open to them. In this sense, a series of participatory processes must be articulated through that platform, and a series of structures must be created. That is what we have tried to put forward in a schematic way — although not briefly, because it was impossible — in our amendment, so that it does not remain solely in generic statements, but that a specific and determined direction is called for on this citizen participation when it comes to putting it into practice by the Government. That being said, this is a non-legislative proposal, and although it is not stated in our amendment because this is not the case, I would also suggest to the Government in voice that it take account of some of the initiatives being carried out, such as that of the Basque Parliament. This is a non-legislative proposal, perhaps we will approve it, hopefully, then we will know what the Government has done, if it has implemented it, what steps it has taken, what it has decided, how it will do it, if it will contrast it with Parliament. In the Basque Parliament, in relation to all motions and non-legislative proposals, every three months the Government is obliged to make a report that is written up with all the steps and progress — or any progress — that the Government has made, so that there is also a appearance before the parliamentary officials. I would encourage the government — well, this one is now finished, the next government — to endorse this initiative so that this Parliament truly knows that parliamentary mandates, which we already know do not go to the bulletin and which do not have legal force, but which do have an ethical and political mandate, are truly fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Position-fixing round, Joint Parliamentary Group? [[Pause]] Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. The transparency instruments created or those we have today are much better, and those of participation are virtually non-existent. The three basic principles for changing the model of opacity and being able to speak of open government are: transparency in government activities, recognition of the effective right to participation in decision-making, and the establishment of instruments for citizen collaboration in the implementation of public policies. See if there's any way forward to go. The natural consequence of addressing these reforms would be that we would have a more critical citizenship involved in the day-to-day work of the Government, and that it would mean having tools to fight corruption, discretion, and misuse of public funds and resources. But who wants that? We should all wish this, that is, the Legislative Power, since we are the representatives of sovereignty and those who exercise the control of the Executive; all of us. That is, this Parliament should be given the mandate to force the government to operate under active transparency, the release of data, and free access to public information. The Legislature is interested in knowing — or should be interested in — what citizens want, what they think of the laws being dealt with and proposed, what laws they want to improve. We are talking about the establishment of a new form of interrelationship between the Administration, the entities, the public agencies and the citizenry, based on transparency and oriented towards the establishment of the so-called open government. Do you think that's what this government offers with its transparency portal? In Compromís we believe that there is substantial room for improvement between what is and what should or could be. One of the blank spaces is precisely that of participation, and one of the examples to follow could be, for example, that of the White House. All you have to do is look at your website. To enable mechanisms to receive proposals, to dialogue, so that people can have an opinion on the laws being dealt with, all this is not futuristic science fiction; it is very simple and happens in countries such as Brazil or the United States. To what extent does this Government take citizenship into account in decision-making processes? With the polls, with the CIS? How can a government justify its decisions if it does not listen to the needs of citizens? To participate, to collaborate, to engage in public affairs are the necessary ways to relate, and they have to cement the pillars of a solid democracy in which people feel at ease, identified and represented, but to do so it takes another way to govern, and surely another Government, one that knows how to listen and dialogue, and not the one that knows how to impose and abuse permanently by its parliamentary majority: the tyranny of the majority that we see every week in this plenary, and that turns its back on a large part of the population; a Government that never listens is a bad Government, but tells all this to people who rule week after week in a coup d'état, who does not dialogue, who systematically rejects any proposal from the rest of the groups, and who sometimes even gives press briefings from a television, is to try to dialogue with a Government that is afraid of people, of the question or the dialogue, and is more comfortable among the shadows. He seems to have much to hide, like the Government of my land itself, that of the Valencian Generalitat, with more than twelve judgements in his possession from the High Court of Justice and some from the Supreme Court, who condemn him for not allowing access to the information requested by our group, by Compromís, and who continues to deny the information over and over again. We will therefore vote in favour of this proposal and of any other proposal aimed at opening the institutions up to citizen participation and control, transparency, open formats and ultimately more democracy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. We will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal because we share the importance of these ideas of enlargement and improvement of the quality of democracy, including the call for open government. It seems to us that it is a matter that is discussed in depth to see what legislative developments it must have in order to bring about something of a higher quality than what we have, which by the way remains very low. I did want to make a couple of comments about this. It seems to me that we should not be dazzled by the importance of technology, particularly digital and the Internet, to improve democratic participation if we do not first improve other conditions sine qua non for such reform and quality of democracy to be real, and not a mere technological dazzlement. Why do we want a much better portal of transparency than the existing one — which seems to me to be a very reasonable objective and there are them in municipalities and autonomous communities — if we continue to have a profoundly unfair electoral law, an electoral law that does not give equal opportunities or participation in active politics in Spain? This is the case, and I want to say this to the Socialist Group, which presents this, because you do not support the proposals for reform of the Electoral Law, which is completely inconsistent, I have to tell you with political loyalty. As long as there is not the same opportunity for any party or group of voters to run for municipal, autonomous and general elections as for already existing parties, we will be talking about a fiction, we will continue to have a deficit of democratic quality in what is a fundamental law that needs to be improved and reformed. So far you — I am referring to the Socialist Group — have not been involved in the work, and I would like to take this opportunity to remind you because I hope that, like other proposals you have made — like the previous one on popular legislative initiatives — you will be in that direction: that you are now concerned about improving a democracy which, as I say, is of very poor quality. During the process of the Transparency Act and the Party Financing Act we agree on the vote with you. That seems to me to be very good, but it also seems to me that they have to be more demanding, because they are an important and powerful group to introduce certain types of amendments or certain types of legislative guidance. The truth is that the Transparency Act we have is absolutely insufficient. It would be funny if in a country where the Data Protection Act is much more — already discussed during the processing of this law — hard and decisive for the political activity that the Transparency Act continues to make small reforms that do not follow up on the issues. With the Party Financing Act it happens exactly the same. If we are talking about open government, that is, more democratic quality, more participation, we must first and foremost worry about a fundamental issue: equal opportunities in political action. The Party Financing Act has worsened equal opportunities in the financing of political activities, because it actually enshrines greater dependence on public subsidies, determined treatment by credit institutions, and greater difficulty in obtaining private funding. So that too must be changed. There are also things that we can do and that the Socialist Group has not so far supported too much. You were comparing Patxi López with Obama being in favor of Patxi López. In the United States and other countries that are models — in this, in other things, not, but here, yes — not only is the publication of the agendas of congressmen, senators and even of the president of the United States, who is public — enough to go on the White House website and anyone can see it — it is even illegal to use private mail for public activities. You have not even supported us when we have asked for the publication of Members' payrolls and agendas on the Congress website to be mandatory. This must be done; I therefore cordially propose that you join this insistence of ours so that we truly live up to what is being done in the United States and in other countries from which we have much to learn in this. Finally, I believe it is important for us to be consistent in all political action. Do we want open government? Great. Do we want more citizen participation? Great, but this is incompatible with corruption. I do not understand that you have presented and succeeded in having been elected President of the Parliament of Andalusia, Juan Pablo Durán, who has been condemned — twice, moreover; first by the Bank of Spain and then ratified by the National Court — by the looting of Caja Sur. How is this compatible with the open government? How is this compatible with greater citizen participation? We don't think it's all about putting better web pages. It is necessary to remove defendants from the lists, to put an end to the stumbling blocks that mean judicial privileges and to put an end to all these distortions that the Spanish democratic system has, which make it as weak and as vulnerable to corruption as the Electoral Act, the bad Transparency Act and those laws that are above fundamental laws do. In short, we will vote in favour with great pleasure and, if there is any luck, we will accompany you in the legislative process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the United Left Parliamentary Group: The Plural Left, Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u167	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the proposing group and, in particular, the partner who defended the initiative. We think it is a good initiative and we are going to vote in favour of it. Obviously, from our point of view, any advanced democracy should necessarily function in the form of open government. As in a democracy, the role of the opposition, of the opposition that is here in this House or of the opposition in the municipalities is regulated, there should also be by law an open government regulation and any government should be obliged, I repeat, to function in a certain way. It is therefore an opportune debate because we are fully faced with a new social paradigm, where citizens, entities, political parties and elected officials can interact in planning, genesis and in the evaluation of government policies in a fluid way. This is what we call, yes, open government, a concept to which three main principles are linked: transparency, participation and collaboration. It must be said that open government is much more than a portal of transparency and much more than the correct use of electronic devices. Open government, ladies and gentlemen, is an attitude, a way of doing politics; a democratic way of doing politics; and possibly, if it does not act as open government, democratic quality is reduced, it is less. Therefore, open government, I repeat, is quite an attitude. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is currently suffering from the greatest institutional crisis since the advent of democracy. There is no doubt that continuous cases of corruption — sometimes several arise in a week — only aggravate the state of emergency in which we find ourselves. The response of the governments cannot be either to increase the opacity or to deny the obvious signs of exhaustion of a system and of a way of functioning where decisions are made against the citizens, against the very programs of the parties that have presented themselves to the elections and, of course, on many occasions we do not know who has taken them, if the parliaments, if the markets, if the troika..., but, in all that process, where are the citizens? That is a question that, functioning as an open government, we would have to answer many days of the week. Yes, those decisions are sometimes made by people who hide behind a plasma TV, but I can assure you that this is the opposite of an open government, absolutely the opposite. And the response to the institutional crisis we are experiencing can only be one: more and better democracy. More and better democracy, no laws gags or coups of the Penal Code. Nor are these adequate responses to functioning as an open government. And the People's Party government, with the support of the People's Parliamentary Group, brought forward in this legislature a law on transparency that some political groups — all but the People's Parliamentary Group — described as disappointing and insufficient. Therefore the loneliness of the People's Party, which currently governs us, to pass the Transparency Act is also a fact to take into account. Obviously, we are in a situation, in a legislature, with a government that has legislated a law on transparency but that still works in an opaque way and a government struck like no other, long and long ago, by the issues of corruption, something that is creating enormous social alarm. To finish. I said before that we are going to vote in favour. We need an open government. Perhaps, as one speaker had said before, this Government may no longer be able, at this stage of the legislature, to behave and to be an open government. That is why the best step we can take to have an open government is to change government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Paramo. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u169	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the non-law proposal is fully in line with the long-standing policy of the Government of the Government of Catalonia with the Government Obert programme, implementing Law 19/2014 of 29 December of the Parliament of Catalonia, Law on transparency, access to public information and good governance. Also with the actions promoted by the Government, before and after the law and within its framework, in a large number of municipalities with their portals of transparency. It is also in line with the most advanced thought streams in the matter. The Catalan Parliamentary Group can therefore propose to vote in favour if clarifications are made aimed at demonstrating the necessary respect for the competences of the autonomous communities. [[Convergence and Union]] The non-legislative proposal that we are discussing is well thought out; therefore, it would not be so much a question of modifying anything as of adding a reference to institutional and territorial pluralism. Information and communication technologies, because of their potential, cannot become a threat to the necessary autonomy, diversity and identity of different administrations. Above all one cannot break the virtue of proximity; one cannot pretend to distance the citizen's interlocution. It is necessary to maintain the idea that who asks, who listens and who answers is not in the hands, as happens in large corporations, of a machine but that they attend and respond people close to and familiar with their immediate surroundings. [[telephones, electrical and so many others]] This issue in a plurinational State is of particular importance and we are in favour of the transfer, but we are also in favour of proximity and respect. It would be disloyal for the central Government, once again abusing its legislative capacity, to impose a system that would serve to nullify the great effort that the municipalities have been making for years and, of course, it would be desirable for any territorial and state administration to assume the principles of non-interference in the communication and transparency efforts that they are already developing. [[small, medium and large]] The State cannot appear as the supreme vigilante over the autonomous communities and local governments. Neither as a vigilante, as a kind of Big Brother, nor much less as a promoter of the idea, among other things because the General Administration of the State comes late, as it has passed in so many levels of services to the citizens, also in the exercise of transparency. The principles that this non-law proposal defends are positive, very positive, ladies and gentlemen; we share them, but we are concerned. The reasons have not given us throughout this legislature, both because of Catalonia's own competences and because of the necessary municipal autonomy within the framework of the European agreements on this matter, but it would also not be acceptable to continue along the lines of the current central government in the sense of inviting, in quotes, the autonomous and local administrations to use technological solutions of their ownership: single portals, electronic systems of citizen care, contracting platforms, digital signature systems, etc., with the loss of autonomy, decision-making capacity and visibility. To complete well the non-legislative proposal, ladies and gentlemen, we urge the Parliamentary Group of the PSOE to introduce a reference, either in the preamble or in the operative part, of the kind: without prejudice to the autonomous powers and with the cooperation of all administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Paramo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest challenges facing public officials today is a society that is increasingly demanding governments that respond effectively to their needs but also that do so in an open and participatory manner. In that regard, this Government and the People's Parliamentary Group, on whose behalf I take the floor, understood from the outset that transparency and accountability should become the fundamental pillars of their political action. I would like to make two premises clear, which I understand to be true, before we examine or proceed to examine the proposals of the proposal put to us by the Socialist Group today. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that Spain has been part of the international initiative of the open government partnership since 2012, together with sixty-three other countries, and, according to the membership of that initiative, our country already has two open government action plans and will adopt the third one in 2016. The second of these open-government action plans contains ten commitments and, with the fulfilment of those commitments, we will be able to move forward on the path already initiated and we will also be able to work on new areas that will enable the consolidation of open-government in our country. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is not true in our opinion that Spain is in the queue in terms of open government, and it is not true because, in terms of both electronic administration and participation rates, Spain is above the world average, above the average in its region and above the average in its subregion. Moreover, if we stick to the specific indicators on transparency and public sector information, according to the indicators of the European Union itself, the state of open data and the re-use of information puts us in second place in Europe of open data, ahead of countries such as France or Germany. Having said that, do we have to keep moving? Yes, certainly, and for that reason and in that direction we are working, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the specific measures proposed in the proposal, I would like to point out that in Spain, with a number of normative provisions in force, practically all of what is included or requested is covered. I am referring to the Transparency Act itself, the Public Sector Information Reuse Act or the Citizens' Electronic Access to Public Services Act. Reference has been made, Mrs González, in her presentation to the pillars on which an open government is based, which are: transparency — it is true — collaboration, participation and, for some sector of the doctrine and some authors of recognized prestige, accountability. I would like to dwell on the first of these pillars, which is transparency; welcome to acknowledge it, because from this government it has been promoted and these Courts have passed the first law on transparency of Spanish democracy and yet it did not count on its support. You know your ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group that we are negotiating the law with you, that we have incorporated much of your amendments, and yet at the last minute you decided not to support it. You will know your reasons, but surely it was for partisan or opportunistic reasons. Under the Transparency Act, a transparency portal has also been created for the first time in this country, which has much to do with the portal that you ask for in that non-law proposal and in which a great effort has been made to aggregate and add all the information that the law requires the General Administration of the State to lend to the citizens. The portal, of course, is not closed, it is not a finished project but it is constantly evolving and open to all improvements that can be made or that are understood to be decisive both by those who maintain the portal and by society who want to improve it. In addition to all this information, if the citizen does not have enough with what he has there, he has the right to request more information, and the Administration will provide it. In fact, to date, more than 1,500 questions have been raised by citizens and answered by the Administration. This already implies greater citizen participation, but participation can also come through other channels. An important aspect, in our view, is citizen participation in the legislative process. In this regard, the preliminary draft law on common administrative procedure of public administrations greatly expands the participation of citizens and of affected groups in the process of drafting the regulations, as can be seen in the transparency portal itself, in the normative section under preparation. Another example of greater participation, which I believe has been referred to this afternoon from this rostrum, is the amendment established to regulate the popular legislative initiative, allowing the person appointed by the committee to promote the initiative to appear in the committee of the Congress of Deputies responsible for the subject, prior to the debate under consideration.As I say, ladies and gentlemen, all this is progress, although much remains to be done — it is true — but that is the line on which we are working. And if the pillars of an open government are transparency, collaboration, participation and accountability, believe me that both this government and the People's Parliamentary Group are working on that.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cortés. I give the floor to Mrs González to express the acceptance or rejection of the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u173	We accept the amendment to the PNV, but with a very concrete compromise that we will bring to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u174	All right, Mrs. González. This shall be taken into account in the vote. — the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the introduction of a family perspective into all public policies. [[File number 162/001205]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u175	We continue with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the introduction of a family perspective in all public policies. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Román has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet the members of the Family Watch organization present in this Chamber to hear the debate on this non-legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group on the introduction of a family perspective into all public policies. Welcome and thank you for that struggle to improve family policies. For my group, the guarantee of family protection has been and is a fundamental axis of action. In fact, in recent years it has promoted various initiatives in favour of this institution. President Rajoy said in the debate of the state of the nation this year 2015 that it is fair to recognize the role of families and the dedication of parents because they are building a country and guaranteeing our future. Ladies and gentlemen, the family is the fundamental cell of society. The family is the origin of our society and without it the rest of social and political institutions would not be possible. But the family is much more, because everything that is important for the integral development of the person is transmitted within the family, which plays a decisive role and guarantees coexistence and social cohesion. The family is the true core of solidarity and basic support in the face of difficult circumstances such as those we have experienced in recent years, but not only in these years, but in the history of this country, our society, this country and this society have been supported by the family. This important role of the family remains irreplaceable and must therefore be protected and supported by the public authorities. We are aware that the family is the present, but it is also the future of our society. It is essential to recognize, value and promote the role of the family in society, removing obstacles to its full development and supporting them as necessary for the fulfilment of their ends. Families assume irreplaceable responsibility, making a decisive contribution to the well-being of individuals and society. In order for the family to be sustainable, measures are needed to sustain it. This is an important idea. Measures must be implemented for the sustainability of the family, for the sustainability of society. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is aware of the valuable contribution of the family, on the one hand, to all the components of the family, and on the other hand, to society, and believes that the policies and programmes dedicated to it, as the Government of Spain and the People's Parliamentary Group have done in recent years, need to be strengthened. The Government of Spain, of the People's Party, has adopted or developed economic reforms in recent years aimed at economic recovery and job creation as a guarantee of the welfare state; has prepared reports on the socio-economic situation of the spa family; has prepared the Strategic Plan for Children and Adolescents; the National Plan for Social Inclusion Action; and has increased, for example, the budget for families and children by 20.5 per cent in 2015 compared to the previous year. The Government's fiscal policy has improved the taxation of large families, persons with disabilities and single parents, has extended the status of large families while one of their children is under the age of twenty-one or twenty-six years if they continue to study, and currently, and within the Government's social agenda, it has announced that it is developing, in dialogue with autonomous communities, with family organizations and with the third sector, the Comprehensive Family Support Plan. Since this House, the People's Parliamentary Group has promoted non-law proposals on the protection of the large family, on family-responsible enterprises and has also supported initiatives by other groups, for example, the non-law proposal on the legal, social and economic protection of families. All this shows that the protection of the family is a fundamental axis of the ruling action of the People's Party, of the ideas, of the ideology of the People's Party. People's Party policies focus on people and the family. Furthermore, we believe that family policy is not an aggregate of social policies, but a genuine public policy, which must ensure the cross-cutting of family promotion and protection in all public actions. As I have tried to argue in my intervention, this policy is a priority on the political agenda of the People's Group and reaches all families, I insist, all families, preferably those who have a situation of greater vulnerability: large families, families with persons with disabilities and single-parent families. We believe that we must continue to implement measures to support this institution, cross-cutting policies to support the family. On the one hand, this cross-cutting approach reaches the various administrations — local, autonomous, central in the State — each in its own sphere of competence, and also this family perspective must be given to all policies of a Government: policies of employment, reconciliation of working and personal life, protection of motherhood — we must remove the difficulties that a woman encounters at the most beautiful moment in her life, such as bringing a new life to the world — policies of consumption, protection of the most vulnerable consumers, policies of pensions, policies of real equality between men and women, protection against violence against minors — see yesterday's unfortunate event in Catalonia — gender violence, violence that sometimes takes place in the home, policies of disability, fiscal, educational and health policies. All these policies have to be seen from a family perspective. I'm closing up. We believe it is positive and necessary to introduce a family impact analysis into all the legislative projects promoted by the Government, to include in the normative memory accompanying the draft laws and regulations the assessment of their impact on the family, a prior analysis of how the new legislation will affect the family, just as the different legislative projects currently are assessed from an economic, environmental or gender point of view. Mr President, I conclude by appealing to consensus and calling for support for this non-legislative proposal. Fundamental policies in a society transcend legislative mandates. Support for the family is one of those important policies that must transcend in time and must have broad support in the House. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Members. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u177	No amendments have been tabled to this initiative, so we are moving on to position-setting. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to step in from the seat for the sake of brevity. Allow me, Mr President, to begin this very brief speech by sending on behalf of my party and myself a sincere hug to the family and friends of Professor Abel Martínez Oliva. And I would also like to show my solidarity and that of my party and all our support for the educational community of the Joan Fuster College in Barcelona. Nor do I want to pass up this opportunity for this debate on the family, on the initiatives of the party that supports the Government to orient public policies towards the perspective of the family, to remember the humanitarian drama that these days is living with horror in the Eastern Mediterranean. We're talking about hundreds of dead people. We say that it is our brothers, people like us who for different needs and obligations break their bonds of family and national origin and risk their lives precisely to aspire to live safely with family and to have vital projects with more freedom and peace than those who are suffering in their own countries. For them, too, I want to have a memory. My party and I welcome public policies inspired by the family perspective because we believe in them, but it is also a necessity. I am no expert, but sociologists agree on the objective fact of the importance of the family as an institution — the spokesman has said very well — but also on the need to urgently promote different conditions. Don't tell me which ones because I wouldn't have time to describe them either, but to fight what some have called — something that's coming — the demographic winter. As I say, I welcome the proposal of the People's Group, which in this case calls on Congress to urge the Government to introduce a family perspective into all public policies so that families are taken into account in a cross-cutting manner in all areas, and I would only like to make not two recommendations, but two suggestions. One of them, as stated in the explanatory statement, is to approve without further delay a plan to support the family, as communities such as Madrid, Valencia, Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla and León already have in place, and to do so urgently. Secondly, they intend to introduce a family impact analysis into all projects. Well, I would tell you not to put the accountant to zero; let us not do it from the projects that are coming, but take advantage of or implement this perspective in those projects, in those proposals that we are already seeing in this House and which have open deadlines for the processing of amendments, in which I am sure we will be able to include this new perspective. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u179	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. There can be no lack, as it could not otherwise be near the electoral period, of a new initiative of the empty populist People's Group as it alone, an initiative with which the People's Group becomes again a palm of the Government. Let's talk about family. In Spain having children for many people is simply being a hero or a hero. There are no public children's schools from zero to three years, so many people have to choose between raising or working. They do not exist because the plan for the creation of public children's school places has been stalled. This, in addition to the reduced maternal decline, leads us to a truly desolating picture. When they exceed three years, the cost of school books, dining rooms and buses is high, so when they are integrated into the educational stage these costs are added. School hours have nothing to do with the working hours of the vast majority and, thanks to this Government, the possibility of reducing the working hours and adapting them to school hours is no longer possible, as their work reform limited the reduction of childcare hours. They can begin, if adopted, as will be expected, by adapting this legislation to the family. The maternal discharge is very small and the paternal anecdote. The four-week extension is another of his unfulfilled promises; more work, five times delayed and the new date is 2016. So come here and breastfeed as far as family support is concerned, what do you want me to tell you? To the facts I refer, the birth descends and the deaths already exceed the births, and they are conclusive data. People have no children or fewer than they would like, because being a hero is not easy. The family is not an abstract concept that you can come here and say you're going to protect it. The family is parents with very ridiculous paternity permits; the family is mothers who have to leave their jobs to care for their children; single mothers and single parents who have to rely on grandparents to support the family economy and continue to raise. They are also those families who have been evicted and still owe money to the bank, thanks to their refusal to approve the payment. Children who do not have to pay for school books are also family members. They are also the families who, thanks to their policy of inequality, have to go to the charity eaters. Perhaps those are not the families you were thinking of, because they are invisible to you, but they are families, families in capitals, heroes and heroes to whom this government turns its back over and over again. Therefore, do not come to us with good intentions and do not waste our time, and legislate once and for all for people. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sánchez Robles has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my group to say that our vote will be in favour of this initiative, not because we want to support it, but because we cannot vote on anything else, because we share the content of its operative part, which, on the other hand, is nothing more than a huge obviousness. But, apart from this circumstantial coincidence, we do not want or should give a letter of nature to the banalization and to the interested instrumentalization which in its expository part make such an important element for social cohesion and for the full development of people in their individual and social aspects as the family is. In the proposition of law, not in his speech, shines for his absence, except in a laconic point contained in the first paragraph, the role that the family plays in today's society, not a word about the whys, about the values it represents, about the reasons that have prompted them to formulate it, probably because at the time when they drafted it they were unrecognizable. It is true that his speech has in some way mattified what was set out in the operative part. Ladies and gentlemen, your initiative distills auto-bomb and self-complacency and transparents a clear will to use the family, once again, as a bold weapon, I understand that with a blatant electoral interest, preferably also against the majority opposition group in its work in this field in the periods of socialist government. Meanwhile, they expect the rest of the parliamentary groups to make palm trees out of their superficial singing in the sun and their theoretical argument in favour of it. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen. With the Basque Group don't count. We're not gonna wave them. We will vote in favour, but we will not wave them. They will also be faced with our denunciation on every occasion on which they intend to implement populistly such essential issues as this. No, we will not consent, because the family in our society is a basic institution that is essential because of the importance of the functions it performs and which have to do with socialization, projection and mutual aid, the transmission of patterns of behavior, values, traditions and a long et cetera, which, due to lack of time, I will not quote, especially when the social, economic and labour changes of the last decades have profoundly affected this institution that has had to evolve and redefine to fulfil its functions and, at the same time, remain an area of personal realization for its members. As a result of these changes, different forms of family organization have emerged. The traditional family is joined by single parents, numerous, reconstituted, foster children, adopters, same-sex parents, intercultural ones. Each and every one of them, in the face of what some sectors of Spanish society think, must be recognized and supported by both society and the institutions as a whole, because the essential and fundamental thing is that they fulfil their basic functions, that they do so with quality and warmth — I believe I have told you on another occasion — and that the relations they develop in them are based, above all, on respect and affection. Moreover, at this time of crisis, the family has accentuated its status as a reduced protection, unconditional assistance to its weakest members, having to cover on too many occasions the huge holes that its governments, the popular governments, have laid on the pillars of the welfare state and also combat the perverse effects that its neoliberal cuts have caused to the people who integrate it. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, being aware that the current crisis is not only economic, but also cultural and values, we must — and I reiterate — emphasize that within families the values of solidarity, sacrifice and effort are being strengthened and transmitted to future generations, in the face of the culture of the ball, the easy success and corruption that have prevailed in certain policies and in the face of the absolute lack of the least ethical behaviour of an important part of the members of these popular governments who are committed to defending. Furthermore, your initiative seems to us to be absolutely inappropriate in this sitting today, in a session in my dark opinion, in the opinion of my group, black, like today's. It is as if they want to whitewash with this childish initiative that dark layer that the corruption that affects them has spread over their political making. I too find it rather curious — it has been pointed out here — that they have not had time in more than three years of this legislature to defend it before this House. We're practically finalizing it. Once again, you're late and bad. I also find it very difficult to urge a Government such as the State to implement family policies in a cross-cutting manner. The theme sings a lot. What I'd tell you is, don't grow up because you've seen too much of your ear. We are only a month and a half away from the municipal authorities and these issues are regularly coming here. In conclusion, we will always find ourselves in the loyal debate of all those initiatives that value the family as a catalyst for the best of the human being, as an engine of growth for society as a whole. This, unfortunately, seems to respond to interests of a different kind than under no circumstances will we applaud. In any case, we shall vote in favour. I really believe that they have missed an extraordinary opportunity to devote the vast amount of time they have to defend a deeper, more value-added initiative. That's all I had to tell you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u183	Thank you very much, Mrs Sánchez Robles. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Lleonart.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Román, let us go to the data to generate a context in which we understand why from our group we believe that the proposal that you bring us to the House today really does not concern ourselves with what you say: the family. During the PP's years of government, according to data from the General Council of the Judiciary and Bank of Spain, there have been about a quarter of a million evictions in Spain. How many families have you left on the street according to this data, Your Honor? During the PP's years of government, according to labour force surveys, the unemployment rate has been around 24.43% on average, losing more than half a million working people along the way. How many parents, who are the sole breadwinners, have been left out of work according to this data, Your Honor? During the PP's years of government, according to a report by Save the Children in 2014, we have found that more than 38% of Spaniards arrive at the end of the month with difficulty or with great difficulty. Since 2007, the number of families receiving no income or subsidy has doubled. It's about 2 million homes. Severe poverty, the poverty suffered by families receiving less than 300 euros a month, affects no more or less than 3 million people and 12% of Spaniards. In 2014, there were nearly 3 million children at risk of poverty and social exclusion; 24 per cent of our children live below the poverty line, one in four. And 46% of children living in single-parent families live at risk of poverty, almost half of children in this situation. How many families, how many children are at risk of exclusion according to this data, Your Honor? We cannot talk about family without talking about evictions, job creation, child poverty and work reconciliation. There has been debate in this House on many occasions. We, since UPyD, have brought initiatives to curb evictions and boost second chances. In fact, it was the first initiative in this regard that was debated in this House in 2012 with the vote against the PP. We have proposed a simplification of contracts that allows, among other things, to change jobs while maintaining seniority, ensuring compensation in case of dismissal, which we also defended since UPyD in 2012 and also obtained the vote against the PP. And even in 2014 we presented a GNP to end child poverty and the risk of exclusion, in which we also called for prior evaluation of the impact that legislative measures could have on the poverty and well-being of children, to which they also opposed from the People's Party. Whenever we have brought to this House from Union Progreso and Democracy measures to help the Spanish families, we have found ourselves, in their case, with the most absolute rejection or the most absolute condescension, promising that they would do something they have never done. Why don't we also talk about conciliation? You may not find the concept alien to you, but of course most Spanish families do, not because of what it means, but because it is out of reality that applies to their lives. In order for a family to be able to maintain itself today, with the low level of the existing wages, its members have to work on schedules that at all times contemplate that they can take care of their children. What kind of family concern is that, Your Honor? But let's keep generating context, please. Answer me Your Honor: Family, what is the concept of family that the People's Party has? The Catholic, the Apostolic and the Roman? What's the PP talking about when he talks about family? Heterosexuals married by the Church or through the Civil Registry or municipalities? And what about single-parent families? What about gay marriage? Yes, marriage, the one you took to the Constitutional to prevent equal rights to equal assumptions. And what about lesbians who want to have children by assisted reproduction using the National Health System and cannot access them because the requirements exclude them, as has been seen this weekend in the media? What about the legislative difficulties in being adoptive families in this country? And what happens in this country when a family has to face situations with dependent people? As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of doubts that we would like them to be clarified before we tell them what the meaning of our vote will be. We need to know whether by families they refer to all those collected by the current Spanish legal order or, on the contrary, we are talking about a family conception that is only due to ideological issues of the People's Party, and we would also need to bring to this House the commitment of a budgetary accompaniment that really demonstrates that their concerns are accompanied by a real bet by the Spanish families. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u185	For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, I have the floor, Mrs García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the elections have indeed arrived and everything is rushing, it is becoming urgent, the pantomime is being resumed that the group that supports the Government urges it to comply with its obligation and to legislate or make rules to help or improve the quality of life of citizens. It must be explained well and slowly so that citizens can come out of their astonishment and begin to understand what we are talking about. Therefore, I will repeat, the Group of the People's Party calls on the People's Party Government to legislate to improve the lives of citizens, when both in Parliament and in the Executive, have been tired of taking measures to cut and undermine rights and services that affect the well-being of citizens, i.e. of families. I could call it Kafkian, but, as you feel a certain aversion to culture, let's leave it in that the People's Party simply pretends to laugh at the face of Spanish society. [[The lady]] Almost four years have passed and, like Saul fallen from the horse, the People's Party Group discovers the light of a comprehensive Family Support Plan that casually developed a People's Government in 2001. You've had time to find out, ladies and gentlemen! It also discovers that during the socialist term this plan did not have continuity, and hence the evils that haunt us. Come on, you repeat the: and you more, but you have not been able to put it in motion or talk about it so far. And in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, inequalities have grown alarmingly in our country during this parliamentary term, especially for families, who have suffered harassment and the destruction of their restrictive policies, evictions and their consequences, which are always dramatic and sometimes the deaths caused by them. This is a real shame for the country. The health system and education are in a state of sharp decline, the social policies cut short and the few progress made towards the achievement of the State of well-being that has virtually disappeared. Child poverty advances unstoppable, youth migrates in search of a future beyond our borders. We suffer unknown percentages of social exclusion so far, policies aimed at equality between men and women have their pale reflection on a role and almost zero in budget. And the reforms that you have introduced, the latest on the voluntary termination of pregnancy, are also a further setback in what we are telling you. From this rostrum my group has repeatedly denounced labour poverty, thousands of people who still work do not arrive at the end of the month, and which affects families, not to mention energy poverty, which also, what a coincidence!, affects families. And do you know what you have done to these initiatives? Vote against, look away, or state that they were already doing what they were being asked to do, even though it was simply a lie. The only truth, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, is that you hastened to rescue the financial institutions, to cut budgets for social policies, to continue with even more harmful labour reforms for workers and consequently for the families of this country. You are going to leave a country to all families, let us have the concept of family that we have — some of you are not clear — in a catatonic state, and now you come and ask us for support to urge the Government to quote the following textually: Introduce a family perspective into all public policies, so that families are taken into account in a cross-cutting way in all areas and introduce a family impact analysis into all legislative projects promoted by the executive. Great, ladies; late but great; we think it's great. Who can refuse to vote such a generality, even if in our case we think you are masters in the art of not saying anything and then doing less? I remind you of something, you approved and accepted the gender impact, and you do not comply on many occasions, ladies and gentlemen. We have not tabled any amendments, ladies and gentlemen. We do not want nor can we be accomplices of such iniquity. We imagine the indignation of thousands of families when they learn of such a proposal which has as its sole objective, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to regain a vote which is leaving them. We are going to abstain from what I said earlier, although the body — indeed, ladies and gentlemen — my group is asking us to vote against. And we will because we have shown — we have — that we believe in comprehensive policies...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u187	Mrs. García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u188	I'm done, Madam President. ... and because we are convinced that it will be others, we will be others from the left, who will implement those comprehensive policies that we have defended in this legislature and in previous legislatures. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u189	Thank you, Mrs. García Álvarez. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow the Members of the Group of the European People's Party to be sceptical about the content of their initiative. Perhaps raised at the beginning of the legislature would have political value because it would allow the whole House to commit to those objectives, but raised when the legislature inevitably has months to live, it seems to us more a legitimate exercise of political propaganda by the People's Group than a will to develop a sound family policy in this legislature. Moreover, when again from the rostrum the spokesmen of the People's Group announce that family plan, ending April and a few months after the end of the legislature, we can give less credibility to that plan. Clearly, if the Government were to adopt it, it would not be able to start it. Therefore, by sharing much of the rhetoric about the value and importance of the family in our society and by sharing the need for family-oriented public policies, my group today cannot applaud or support this initiative of the People's Group because, among other things, we would be legitimizing a policy that, in spite of what the spokesman for the People's Group has told us, has not been geared towards supporting families. Some of the spokespersons have quoted these realities and I'm going to focus on some of them. I see Mrs Ciuro, who has been a promoter in this legislature of the extension of paternity permits, following the momentum and commitments that Mrs Pigem had made in previous legislatures with the previous majority. It has passed the legislature and that enlargement of one of the instruments that in the rest of Europe allow us to improve family support policies, which are broader permits for men to commit to our family responsibilities, continues undeveloped, and that is family policy. If I may, I myself have defended from this rostrum what in the rest of Europe forms a hard core of family support policies, which is a universal child benefit from Social Security. The majority of the Group of the European People's Party has voted against this initiative, which, I insist, is in line with what central right and centre left governments are promoting in the rest of Europe. Also, with regard to one of the main instruments in terms of service to families, which is a support network for families with children from zero to three years, the People's Party Government has liquidated the so-called Education Plan, which allowed funding not only for zero to three years, but also for the non-compulsory part of the education system from three to six years. We can share the rhetoric. Moreover, I believe that today the rhetoric about the family understood in the broad, plural sense, which incorporates many realities of the families — to which the spokesman of the Basque Group has referred — is no longer part of the discussion between seats on either side of the Chamber. The challenge, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, is to know what policies are effective in helping families to care for their children, what policies are effective in enabling families to have the children they want, what policies are ineffective in helping those families in a situation of increased risk and vulnerability, what policies are effective in reducing the risk of child poverty, and we have not been able to discuss these policies because the Government has decided to renounce them. As I said to you, I am very sorry that my group is not going to vote in favour of this initiative. I hope that those who touch us in this House in the next parliamentary term will be able to move from rhetoric to real politics in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u191	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Pérez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nor does my group cease to be outraged, not to be surprised, by the cynicism of the People's Group when it brings such initiatives to the House: to urge the Government to introduce a family perspective into all public policies and legislative projects. Mr Román knows, this is something that Mrs Mato announced in February 2012, and he also said that they were doing so. What were you doing? What reports? What prospects? From what families? Do you know that there are different types and what in some positive impacts can do negatively in others? For example, tax amnesty. I'm sure Mr. Rat's family looked great, but most of the families in this country don't think it looked great. [[Applauds]] He also did not want to refer to those other families of which other groups have spoken here — I am sorry to repeat myself —: to single-parent families, to extended families, to those grandparents who have to bear children and grandchildren with a small pension, to a family with all its members unemployed and without benefit. That same month, in February 2012, we were told here a family plan that has also been announced later by the two Secretaries of State and the newly appointed new minister in January who came to this House to tell us about it. Where's that plan? Do you guys have a budget yet? Are you going out here without blushing to defend the family or the families, Mr. Román? That's what they have to tell us. It seems that you have not yet learned that there is no family, as you have continually spoken here, a family as you seem to conceive it, as a vertical and autocratic model. They come out here after meeting yesterday with an association that deserves all the respect and with which we have met other groups, for what? To, hiding behind the associations, make you forgive the three and a half years that you have been in government by punishing Spanish families, the measured classes and the working classes? That's what you do. They come out here without blushing and we have to endure being told — after the inequality they have generated, with more than 728,000 households in which no income comes in — to defend families. The nearly three million unemployed without any benefit will be someone's family, Mr Román, I say. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, there are almost 1,800,000 families with all their members unemployed and they go out and talk about what they're talking about here... You protect the family while punishing families, while punishing people, while punishing the citizens of this country, who are the real holders subjectively of rights and duties. [[Applauds]] From that perspective, did they ever think about how it would affect their labour reform to the family of a worker over fifty who was fired for their reform? Or how would it affect the vital projects of so many young people, and not so young, who have come out of that economic exile and who have had to leave their partners and their sons and daughters here? Have you thought about how it has affected that you have eliminated social security from caregivers, mothers and daughters in many cases, and have also reduced the benefit for caring for your dependents? Are those families? Are you worried about families? And the elimination of subsidies and scholarships in education? Did they think of the elderly and their families when they removed almost 500 medicines from public funding from a pen and also imposed co-payments and reposes? With what perspective do you look at the elimination of budgets against gender-based violence and how this affects so many women, their children, their families, this society? [[Applauds]] Tell me how it benefits families in this country to eliminate access to assisted reproduction for families made up of women only. Oh, now! It's just that they were thinking about the others, that's what really happens. Don't tell me you didn't think about how it would affect the seven million households in Spain that are in energy poverty their rise in light, gas, VAT, IBI, their disastrous fiscal policy. Did you think of the families who lost their home because you sold it to a vulture fund? They only seek to discharge their responsibility; in the absence of a state — which is what you like — in the absence of public policies...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u193	Mrs. Pérez Dominguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u194	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u195	No, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u196	... subjective rights, of quality public services, that families carry with the task of co-heriting and sustaining what you have destroyed. For sample, a button. This is the family that worries them: Valdemoro, a municipality in Madrid. [[shows a graph]] All these contracts are family: husband, wife, brother-in-law, cousin... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u197	Mrs. Pérez Dominguez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u198	Not to mention Extremadura, where the first was the employment of the family of the President of Parliament, of President Monago and of one other councillor or mayor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u199	Mrs. Pérez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u200	Those are the families you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u201	Mrs. Pérez, your time is up. Thank you. MOTIONS CONSEQUENCE OF EMERGENCY INTERPELATIONS: — the Parliamentary Socialist Group, to the Minister for Public Affairs and Administrations on the development by the Court Agency of its legal aid functions in the cases affecting the people's party. [[File number 173/000204]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u202	Motions arising from an inquiry. As I said to you, we are going to see a motion this afternoon, the motion resulting from urgent questioning of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Finance and Public Administration on the development by the Tax Agency of its judicial assistance functions in cases affecting the People's Party. Mr Saura has the floor for his presentation and defence. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, successive scandals in the Spanish Public Treasury damage the Spanish democratic system, its institutions and also the fiscal conscience. The latter has to do with the fact that the former economic president of the Aznar Government has acknowledged that he defrauded the Treasury once he accepted the tax amnesty, and most likely also defrauded when he was Minister of Economy and Finance and Economic Vice-President of the Government. In the face of these scandals in the Spanish Public Treasury and the no reaction of the Spanish Government this Parliament cannot look elsewhere, this Parliament has to make decisions and that is what the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings here this afternoon, to the House: a reprobation by the Minister of Finance and Public Administration for the continuing scandals that are taking place in the Spanish Public Treasury. The reasons can be varied, they can be multiple, but we would like to focus them on three weight reasons. The first has to do with the fact that the Government does not want to publish, hidden, the name of the 30,000 defrauders who took up the tax amnesty. Ladies and gentlemen, your publication will be unstoppable on the basis of the broad, majority consensus in the opposition, i.e. of most of the groups in this House. Its publication will be unstoppable. This morning a high office of the Government of Spain, in a frivolous manner, said that the information available to the Government, the information available to the Tax Agency, is the potato store. A frivolous expression, in my opinion, which cannot be pronounced in a Parliament like this. Citizens, who are paying more taxes than ever in the history of democracy, have to listen to that information, and we wonder, if they have so much information, how it is possible that the names of the 30,000 convicted and confessed fraudsters of the tax amnesty could not be known. [[Applauds]] So what we are asking from the Socialist Group is for that list of shame, that list of the 30,000 fraudsters to be made public. For what reasons do we want it to be made public? First of all, there will be no genuine democratic regeneration in our country until we know that list of defrauders. And secondly, because the publication of the list is the greatest guarantee that there will never be another tax amnesty in our country. It is the biggest vaccine in Spanish society so that a tax amnesty in a democratic Parliament will not be re-approved. For those two reasons, we want the list of fraudsters to be published. And we set out a double path. The first is the approval of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. That is a way forward, as the General Tax Act in its article 95 shows. Another way is to amend Article 95. This week, the draft amendment to the General Tax Act entered the House. Let us put forward an amendment to amend Article 95 to include the publication of this list. There are no problems of retroactivity in the rule, the Constitutional Court has made it very clear, it has stated that it would only be unconstitutional in the case of passing a sanction with retroactive effects, and publishing this list is not a sanction, it is transparency, it is advertising, it is betting on democratic regeneration. Then there is no problem; moreover, according to these theses which say that there would be a problem of retroactivity, the Government itself in amending the General Tax Law would be involved in this issue because it is talking about fraudsters in final judgement, that is to say facts that passed before the adoption of the norm. Or he's talking about the Moors. It is the same case; we are talking here about convicted and confessed defrauders, then there is no legal problem. In addition, there is a contradiction, the Government wants not only the list of fraudsters to be published, but also the list of the late ones to be published. I mean, we're going to know the list of the late ones who have cash problems and we're not going to know the names of the 30,000 fraudsters who, as I say, are convicted and confessed. [[Applauds]] That is the first reason, the most important reason for progress in democracy, for supporting democratic institutions; nothing more and nothing less is at stake than that, no parliamentary majority is at stake, ladies and gentlemen, no government is at stake, democratic institutions, democracy are at stake. That is why it is important that this list is published because, otherwise, Spanish society will not forgive us, I would not forgive Parliament today for voting against publishing that list, the list of shame. Secondly, we believe that the institutions have been used for the benefit of the PP, as has been the case with the obstruction of justice by the Tax Agency, the political direction of the Tax Agency, so that the People's Party is not convicted of a fiscal offence. And finally, the third reason we argue for this reprobation is that tax amnesty, which has been unfair, which is a trip to darkness, which is indecent and which is also an unnecessary tax amnesty, which is ineffective, because there are other instruments — the public finance inspectors themselves say — for having raised 1.2 billion euros when 2 billion euros had been budgeted. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u204	Thank you, Mr. Saura. An amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, and Mr Anchuelo has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u205	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialist motion addresses two main issues: the first has to do with the role of the Tax Agency in judicial assistance functions in cases that particularly affect the People's Party and in particular the Bárcenas-caja B case of the PP. In this country we have already become accustomed to anything, our threshold of tolerance is very high, but if we did not have that threshold of tolerance so high we would have been surprised by two unprecedented actions of the Tax Agency in the Bárcenas case. The first has to do with the tax doctrine so peculiar to the Tax Agency that it taught us that donations, even if they are illegal, even from entrepreneurs who may be benefiting from public contracts, are exempt; that is, they are entitled to a tax benefit even if they are illegal. This makes no sense and that is why Union Progress and Democracy asked the Directorate-General for Taxes for a report, we did a consultation on whether this made sense. I would like to highlight this because much has been said about this report by the Directorate-General for Taxes, but it has forgotten where it comes from. And the Directorate General of Taxes said what seems logical, that donations, in order to be exempt, have to be legal and have to be dedicated to the party's own purposes. The second unheard of action is when the judge requests a report, recalculations are made and the Tax Agency initially refuses to comply with the judge's request. These are truly unheard-of actions that can only be understood to have had no greater political consequences because of the high tolerance threshold that we already have in our country with these kinds of issues. The second issue dealt with in the Socialist motion concerns the tax amnesty and its implementation in the specific case of the last few weeks, in the Rato case. On the Rato case I want to recall something important: today everyone is tearing their clothes for the Rato case, but if it wasn't for a Bankia case opened at the National Hearing by UPyD, Mr.Rato, instead of being accountable to justice, would be quietly enjoying the rents of his various boards of directors. That's important to remember today. But the Rat case is a particular case of a broader problem, the tax amnesty. Today many people tear their clothes: who could think that Mr. Rat was benefiting from the tax amnesty?, who could think that Mr. Pujol was benefiting?, who could think that Mr. Bárcenas was benefiting? Anyone who had bothered to study the tax amnesty when it was launched could think of that. Read in the "Diary of Sessions" the speeches of the various opposition groups, including mine. Read what the Finance Inspectors said. What did they say? That the tax amnesty, in addition to being a mistake because it deteriorated the fiscal awareness of the Spaniards, allowed for the regularization of cash and, by permitting it, facilitated money laundering. That would make people welcome amnesty in cases of corruption, including political corruption. In other words, it is not bad luck; what has happened is the logical consequences of the bad policies that have been implemented. That is why we believe it makes every sense to ask for Mr Montoro's reprobation — by the way, he should have appeared this morning instead of sending the director of the Tax Agency to act as a shield — and it makes sense to ask for his reprobation for the facts I have previously reported. There is another important issue that is addressed in the motion. There is a conflict between the right to confidentiality of tax data and the right of citizens to know whether there are public offices that have defrauded the tax system or whether there are candidates for autonomous, local or general elections that have defrauded the tax system or engaged in money laundering. That is why we believe it makes sense to make this information public, because there is a conflict of interest and tax secrecy cannot prevail over citizens' right to know, among other things, whether they are voting for candidates who have been involved in money laundering. Our amendment seeks to complement what the Socialist Group is calling for in order to systematically investigate the origin of the funds of the 29,000 persons admitted to the tax amnesty and not just of the seven hundred and peaks of the short list, something which UPyD has asked for in the past and which should be reiterated at this time. Our vote, in any case, will be yes, since this motion is in line with previous proposals put forward by our group. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u206	Thank you, Mr. Anchovielo. Mrs Enbeita has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point it is undeniable that the last tax amnesty adopted in the Spanish State has been a scandal. And I say the last one because it is true that this is not the first time that something like this has been approved, before the fiscal amnesty of 2012 there were two others: one in 1984, when Mr. Miguel Boyer was minister, and another in 1991. In none of these cases have the names of the amnestyed persons or the origin of the money raised. This time, however, it is more than a suspicion at this stage that politicians and public officials have welcomed it. Far from setting an example or fulfilling what their ministries have asked of the citizenry in their day, it seems that the charges have been used to get rid of paying to the Treasury and to fatten their own accounts. But we are discovering all this thanks to the press or certain judges who have dared to move the tickets. And if we stick to the data, ladies and gentlemen, the numbers are powerful: 40 billion euros outflows, more than 31,000 non-contributory people and 1.2 billion euros for public coffers. If we compare what came out with what was retained by the Treasury, it is more than clear who came out winning. It is easy to conclude that the tax amnesty, once again, served only to get well with the usual ones, with whom neither the crisis nor the unemployment nor nothing at all. They dropped a little boiler so they could bleach millions and millions. Hacienda said in his day that he would investigate 700 amnesties and, among them, we have heard about Rodrigo Rato, Luis Bárcenas, Fernando Martín, Josep Pujol, Oleguer Pujol, Diego Torres, etc. And of course, of course you should know the full list, so we want to support this motion, but not just this list. Put to this, it would also be good to know what happens to the Falciani list, what happens to the companies of the Ibex 35 that have their headquarters in tax havens or what happens to the Sicav. There are too many lists here to discover, but of course, just as all roads lead to Rome, most of these lists lead us to the same site, to the establishment, to the usual ones and to the party that governs in the Spanish State. But not only by knowing the names we will solve the problem, because it is assumed that with amnesty many have been freed from the charges attributable to tax offences, so the origin of the problem is ultimately the same system. Tax evasion is not something to be solved, if you want, you can avoid it. Getting a fiscal policy where they pay more than they have, contrary to what is now done, would perhaps be a good way to start. The current tax system allows cheating, escaping, not paying, stealing, corrupting. Of course, all this does not allow citizenship, but it does allow those who travel to Switzerland or Andorra every time they are filled with the wallet. Thus, every five years they are granted a tax amnesty, while the rest pays fines for every penny they miss out on their income tax return. What will the hundreds of citizens who have even been unemployed have thought about returning money to the Treasury in their statement or the small self-employed when they have heard the news about Rodrigo Rato? It's like you invite people themselves not to pay and to disappoint. Totally, it's free. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what do you want us to tell you about Mr Montoro's reprobation of this motion? We will not be the ones to say what you have to do with your finance minister, but following the principle of the environment that the judge so dear to us here, Baltasar Garzón, Montoro should be at least not sure if accused, but asked, because for environments his, full of tax evaders, fraudsters and arrested for corruption. Good thing he's a finance minister, 'cause if he was of something else...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the political context in which this motion is presented is fraught with and fuelled by the reality of corruption, a corruption which greatly affects the Government and the People's Party, and which brings with it the tiredness of citizens who see how many political leaders, and also sometimes, get away from the situation, steal with shame. In the face of the mountains of corruption, which mainly affect the People's Party — but not only because there are other cases, for example the Andalusian ERW — many citizens are enduring the rigours of a deep crisis: the unemployment rate is still above 20% and 50% in the case of young people. While many suffer, others steal or can regularize their fiscal situation at an irritating price. It is not surprising that this context disturbs the political thing and a recomposition of the political map is taking place. The first test we will have in a month with the autonomic and municipal elections. After a long list that is increasingly difficult to memorize — Gürtel, Noos, Barcenes, Matas, the EREs, Punica, etc. — former Vice-President Rodrigo Rato is now joining us, and citizens are wondering: When will this end? How many more are there? Who are they? We want it to be known at once so that all this can be cleaned up from the root. They are all legitimate and reasonable questions and aspirations that require a clear, strong and, above all, credible response from the Government. Citizens must know the truth of what is happening. If you need to change the law, change it. If the legislation does not allow it today, let us adapt the tax legislation so that citizens can know who they have defrauded. My group is committed to transparency and to making sure that the names of the fraudsters are known. In this turbulent context, Judge Ruz made a request for information to the Tax Agency concerning the People's Party, which was apparently sent after the information was known and leaked by the cabinet of the Minister of Finance, an irregularity, gentlemen of the People's Group, and a practice not currently recommended for the Government. And all this in order to try to hide the tax crime committed by the People's Party of defrauding the Treasury 220,000 euros. Is there political responsibility for such behaviour? In our opinion, yes. The independence of the Tax Agency has not been respected, as would have been desirable. On the other hand, the motion also calls for Mr Montoro's reprobation in the light of the results of the tax amnesty, an amnesty which has allowed Mr Bárcenas and Mr Rato to benefit, among others. It's not a question of hiding now. At the time, when amnesty was raised, we already protested head-on against it. It was unethical; it penalized those who regularly pay taxes against the defrauders. It is logical that fraudsters and others, who have had no shame at all in deceiving the tax system, i.e. the citizens, should accept an amnesty by paying only 3% instead of 56% plus the corresponding fine and penalty. Faced with this scandal, the Government only says that they have come up with tax bases that they will now pay. Yeah, but at what price? And above all, at what ethical price? Apart from the 30,000 amnesties, the list of 750 judges, politicians and we do not know who else sent to the Service for the Prevention of Money Laundering and of which we have known the involvement of Mr Rodrigo Rato. In any democratic country, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, the tenth part of the Rato affair would have been a scandal of enormous dimensions. In the case of the Spanish state it is one more drop; a fat drop, yes, but one more drop that adds to the piles of existing drops of corruption. Is it justified, therefore, to reprobate? Perhaps he should have resigned not the finance minister, but the entire government, and not now, but long ago because there are reasons and leftovers. For infinitely fewer reasons the People's Party called for the resignation in the Basque Parliament of the director of EiTB or the reprobation of Justice and Public Administration Councillor Josu Erkoreka, making the reprobation a minor issue. We think that reprimanding a minister is a very serious issue and that it must be isolated from any electoral battle, although I know that it is difficult to do so right now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u210	Mr. Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u211	I'm done, Madam President. Nor do we want our political position to be seen on the sidelines of the reprobation which the Socialist Group intends to capitalise on. But because of the level of corruption that emerges day and day too, especially from the ranks of the People's Party, and being honest with our approaches, we cannot stay out of the debate of reprobation, reprobation to the Minister of Finance and Public Administration, to Mr Montoro, but that should be moved — I insist — to the government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u212	Mr. Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u213	In a month's time, citizens will have the opportunity to speak freely at the polls. We'll see what they decide. That is why, because we are fundamentally against widespread corruption within the People's Party, the amnesty process carried out, we will vote in favour of the Socialist Group's motion, which calls for the Minister's reprobation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u214	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if there were plenty of reasons for Mr Montoro's reprobation today when the sun starts to set, these reasons are multiplying, because something important has happened today: another act of contempt by Mr Montoro for this House. For years we have suffered from Mr Montoro and his fiscal policy: a repeated breach of his electoral promises and unjust fiscal policies. Above all, we have seen Minister Montoro push and execute a fiscal amnesty that from the very first moment it was known that it would deteriorate the country's fiscal conscience and would serve to make evaders, defrauders and some assumptions — after confirmed — criminals get out of their way. During these years we have witnessed the political instrumentalization by Mr Montoro of the Tax Agency, and if he has not done so any more it has been because the professionalism of the public employees of the Tax Agency has not allowed him, not out of desire. We have witnessed the shameful spectacle of seeing Mr Montoro throw out from that veiled seat and in some cases obvious and constant threats to deputies, political parties, the media, journalists and artists, with the clear will to silence them, to silence us. These threats stemmed from the presence of data from the Tax Agency, which, according to him, currently cannot be disseminated because they are part of the confidentiality of the Tax Agency's data. We have seen once again today Mr Montoro's contempt for this House. Since his appearance was compulsory for democratic reasons, he has not done so and has sent to the Director General of the Tax Agency, that what he has told us is what we already know, that the Tax Agency has very good professionals; yes, as good professionals as bad political direction. He has told us what we already know, that, according to him, the tax amnesty was a wonder; we know that it was exactly the opposite, and the facts are proving it. We had some questions to ask Mr Montoro and, as he has not given us the opportunity, we are asking them at the moment, in case someone wants to transfer them. Mr Montoro approved a tax amnesty at the time, which clearly — as we said in the House — would benefit certain sectors of society. From the beginning, some in this House told him that it was a tax amnesty a la carte, almost like a personalized offer of tax amnesty. Today Mr Montoro has an obligation to tell us and to explain to us whether by approving the tax amnesty he knew that among his future beneficiaries would be close friends of his, cabinet colleagues, comrades of the People's Party. You must explain to this House when you learned that some of those leaders, Mr. Rat, for example, would benefit from that tax amnesty. It has that obligation before us, a democratic obligation. Mr Montoro has repeatedly used, instrumentalized the position for partisan benefit; he did so when he obstructed the work of the courts, he did so also when, taking advantage of the appearance of the Pujol scandal and his family, he decided to appear and decided that on that occasion he could speak of a particular case, that of Mr Pujol, in that case it turned out that confidentiality was not violated and he could speak; instead, when it comes to someone like Mr Rat, no. I said that this morning and I repeat again, neither my group nor I are suspected of distinguishing tax evaders according to the flag they hold or the country of which they are proud; in short, it is only that, tax evaders. Mr Montoro has instrumentalised his duties as Minister of Finance for his own benefit and partisan; he has demonstrated this in his appearance in relation to Mr Pujol and has demonstrated this today by not appearing when he was asked for explanations in relation to Mr Rato. Those reasons are sufficient for his reprobation, but another is added today, and is that Mr Montoro wants to make fun of the citizens of this country again. He says he does not give information about the late, he does not give information about those who have been convicted of tax fraud because he is prevented by article 95 of the General Tax Act.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u216	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u217	It may be true, as true as that article and that law was approved by the People's Party during Mr Aznar's government and as true as it is, if it wishes, possible. That is why I end up saying the same thing I said this morning to the People's Party and to the Government; if you really are sincere in saying that you want to give transparency and publicity to the late prosecutors and tax fraudsters convicted of a final sentence, my group has given them the opportunity. We have put forward a bill for urgent debate and a single reading so that it can be known before citizens vote who they vote for and if among those who stand for election there are some of those late prosecutors or some of those tax fraudsters.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u218	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u219	If they don't, it's because they don't want to, not because they can't, and Because, deep down, you guys know badly that I tell you, but I'll tell you again...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u220	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u221	They have been conniving, have covered up and continue to cover up corruption, in this case fiscal corruption.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u222	Mr. Coscubiela, your time was up a minute ago, 20 seconds ago. Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u223	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Catalan Parliamentary Group on the action of the Tax Agency in the fight against tax fraud has always been the same. [[Convergence and Union]] The Tax Agency must be relentless in the fight against fraud for all Spanish citizens. At the same time, we have always said that the mechanisms to be put in place by the State and the Government to achieve this should always be at the service of this fight against fraud in order to achieve the maximum collection objectives, always with the same treatment for all the citizens of the Spanish State. Today we have found, regrettably, that this has not been the case. I am going to refer to two questions which are perfectly pointed out in the 'Diary of Sessions', where you will be able to see that the statements I make at the moment are true. Mr Montoro said at the hearing in the Puyol case the following: No one is spared that my presence here today also originates in one of the most serious cases of tax fraud in qualitative terms that have been known in Spain, which has caused, ladies and gentlemen, the consequent social alarm and is more than sufficient reason for the Minister of Finance of the Government of Spain to appear in this Parliament. I would ask Mr Montoro: Where have you been today in the appearance of the Committee on Finance and Public Administration which has not been able to come face-to-face and give explanations when it did in the Puyol case? Another relevant statement, from our point of view. We said that we did not share these statements, but we were sitting and respecting them. Another important statement made by Mr Montoro: It is logical that everyone, and also the citizens of Catalonia, now wonder how they have been able to put the management of their community in the hands of people who, while ruling, were violating the tax rules that we are all forced to do. It is logical to ask whether that way of wanting and understanding Catalonia is endorsed by other leaders of its party, and whether its political heritage and its political heirs are not really contaminated by this alleged inheritance. We did not share this statement, but we would like to know what Mr Montoro's position is. Finally, another question concerning point 1 of the motion which Mr Saura has defended. We too understand Mr. Montoro's reprehensible conduct in all those aspects that make... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u224	One moment, Mr. Sánchez i Llibre. Please, keep quiet. If you have to talk, do it outside the Chamber, because it is impossible to listen to Mr Sánchez i Llibre. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u225	Thank you very much for your protection, Madam President. There is another issue that we also consider relevant from the point of view of respect for all Spanish taxpayers and citizens who pay their taxes religiously. There have been some claims by Mr Montoro that he compared the subsidies that the different Spanish citizens can legally give to an organization as important as Caritas with an assumption of illegal financing that is in the courts, with all those contributions to box B of the Gürtel case. We understand that these statements are not welcome; they are a lack of respect for all those non-profit associations that work where the public administrations of the State cannot reach, and we believe that this is an issue that has not been sufficiently clarified. Finally, with regard to the two following points raised by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Saura, we are in the electoral campaign, but you, with all due respect, I understand that you are not in the moral position to give lessons to anyone from everything that can represent a fiscal amnesty. You made two perfectly legalized and approved tax amnesties in this House; you also made another covert tax amnesties in the case of all those reports from the Swiss evader. We know that we are now in the electoral campaign, but we are not in the pim, pam, pum between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We are going to vote in favour of point 1 of your motion, Mr Montoro's reprobation, and we are going to abstain on points 2 and 3. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u226	Thank you, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. For the People's Group, Mr Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u227	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Saura, I have never read a motion so absolutely regrettable; never. Today, the Socialist Party has surpassed its own record of parliamentary cynicism. This motion is full of ignorance, malice and crooked electoral interest. Or all three things at once. It's a clumsy compilation of slogans, falsehoods and inconsistencies. I will make a few comments on the text of your motion. It does not seem very consistent that you tell the Spanish Minister of Finance, who is the one who has collected most in Spain's history in the fight against fraud, that he does not fight fraud. The data is there: more than 3 billion euros of collection in the fight against the fraud of difference between this year and 2011, the last year in which you ruled. EUR 122,000 million has been made in respect of 2011 and it turns out that Mr Montoro, as his motion — I open quotes — says, covers corruption. And they stay so wide. If Mr Montoro does not fight corruption, with the figures on the table, what did you do? What was its management in the fight against fraud? As in the rest of economic policy, a joke policy. It doesn't seem consistent. Nor does it seem prudent that you, who sent a kind letter to the Falciani defrauders, should ask the government for more transparency, which announced the immediate publication of the late ones with the Public Treasury last Friday in the Council of Ministers. They also accuse the party that has adopted the most complete battery of measures in the history of democracy to combat precisely corruption; more than seventy measures to combat corruption. [[Rumors.—A honourable Member: What a shame!]] This seems to me to be another contradiction. Also in his motion they say that the Tax Agency does not cooperate, although he has submitted five reasoned reports to the judge, including the simulations he had requested. And you continue to say that the Tax Agency does not cooperate with justice and also put it in writing in the text of your motion. You defend the independence of the professionals of the Tax Agency in the morning and in the afternoon — I have also heard it again today — slander them in a mean way, accusing them of being at the service of the interests of the People's Party. It seems to me that what you do has no name. Nor does it seem very consistent that we receive corruption lessons from you, who are still holding three corruption defendants — Mr Chaves, Mr Zarrías and Mr Viera — in those seats — — who do not have to go very far. [[Applauds]] And furthermore, as one UPyD Member said this afternoon, they have put a gentleman accused of corruption and a breakdown in an Andalusian savings bank as president of the Andalusian Parliament. [[Rumors.—Applause.]] Yours has no name, it's pure cynicism. Instead, they come here to demand the reprobation of a minister because someone has committed an alleged crime. The only party that has been convicted of corruption in Spain has been the PSOE, the only party convicted of corruption. [[Rumors.—A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] It does not seem very normal for you to accuse others on the basis of lies, violating the presumption of innocence systematically and without a court ruling on the table. You also continually talk about that evil so-called fiscal amnesty, when you passed two real tax amnesty, absolutely opaque, in 1984 and 1991; therefore, you have no credibility on this issue. [[Rumors]] By the way, I am going to reflect aloud: if you had not left the country in bankruptcy, as you left it in December 2011, in bankruptcy, surely this government would not have to have pushed this special tax statement to you. [[Protests]] [[Applauds.—Protests]] Another question, another comment. Justice, which is investigating alleged criminals, criminals of all colors, of all political parties, says the spokesman of the PSOE that the People's Party is hindering it, when justice is working in this direction more than ever. This week they were very happy with Rodrigo Rato's arrest, and it's been three years since he said that with the tax amnesty, everyone was leaving with rositas. What are we left with? Because they say one thing and the other. It doesn't make any sense. It is good enough to discredit, insult and vilify the People's Party. In politics it is not worth everything, Mr Saura, it is not worth everything, you have crossed all the red lines of truth with the sole purpose of concealing that the People's Party is the party that is advancing in the economic recovery of this country. You're just trying to embarrass the playing field. In Spain there has always been corruption, there has always been corruption, the difference is that now it is detected, persecuted and punished Who makes the pay, it is called as it is called and whatever party it is. [[Applauds]] Justice, the police, the prosecution are acting with absolute independence, the institutions are functioning properly. We are all equal before the law, and this parliamentary group invites and encourages the State Security Forces and Bodies to continue to work in that direction. Corruption disgusts us all. Furthermore, you are not prepared to give any lessons in this regard because you have consistently opposed all the measures we have put on the table to end this country's corruption. [[Applauds.—Protests]] Cleaning up the country of corrupt people is the mission and objective of the People's Party. We would like to count on your support and ask you, please, to stop trying to embarrass the camp, to do partisan politics to try to scratch four votes, especially while in your ranks there are still three accused of corruption. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u228	Thank you, Mr Gallego. Mr Saura, an amendment has been tabled. Do you or do you not accept it? [[Rumors]] Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u229	Madam President, we are going to ask for a separate vote on the three points. The lady
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u230	Do you not accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u231	We don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u232	Okay. That's how it's gonna be done. Let's call it a vote. [[Pause]] MINUTE OF SILENCE
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, two days ago we learned of the shipwreck of a fishing vessel north of the coast of Libya that has cost the lives of hundreds of migrants on board. As a demonstration of the commitment of the Congress of Deputies to finding solutions that would put an end to these kinds of humanitarian tragedies and in mourning and remembering the victims, I ask you to keep a minute of silence. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you. AMENDMENT OF THE AGENDA
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u234	In accordance with Rule 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure, this Presidency proposes to the House the amendment of the agenda, so that point 27 on the urgent inquiry of the Catalan Parliamentary Group is discussed before point 25 on the urgent inquiry of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left. [[Convergence and Union]] Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] That's how it's gonna be done.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u235	We shall now proceed to the vote. Firstly, it takes into consideration the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies on the processing of proposals for popular initiative legislation. Three telematic votes have been cast. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes with 3 votes in favour. 321; in favour, 147 plus 1 telematic vote, 148; against, 171 plus 2 telematic votes, 173. It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u236	It takes into consideration the proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió, on the reform of the company tax to replace the deduction for investments with objectives of environmental improvement. There are 3 telematic votes. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 plus 3 telematics votes, 321; 141 plus 1 telematics vote, 142; 171 plus 2 telematics votes, 173; abstentions, 6. It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u237	We move on to non-law propositions. Firstly, that of the Socialist Group, on the adoption of the open government strategy. It will be put to the vote with a compromise amendment to that of the Basque Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 147 against, 171. It's rejected. — the People's Parliamentary Group on the introduction of a family perspective into all public policies. [[File number 162/001205]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u238	No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the introduction of a family perspective in all public policies. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 176 against 1; Abstaining, 135. It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-21-CD150421.u239	We shall then put to the vote the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Finance and Public Administration on the development by the Tax Agency of its judicial assistance functions in cases affecting the People's Party. [[Rumors]] Please, it's impossible for you to know what we're talking about. The three points that make up this motion will be voted on in their own terms and separately. Firstly, the vote was taken on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour 145 against 172; Abstaining, 1. It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 131 against, 172 abstentions, 15. It's rejected. Finally, we voted on point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 131 against, 171 abstentions, 15. It's rejected. The meeting was suspended. It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night.
