ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point concerning the amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft law on voluntary jurisdiction. For the Vasco PNV Group, Mr Olabarría has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will speak briefly on the Senate amendments which are of a particularly technical nature in this case and even grammatical and styled, well-configured in general terms. The concept of voluntary jurisdiction itself does not cease to be a contradiction in its own terms, it is an uncontroversial lawsuit and involves burdening a very overworked Justice Administration, given the scarcity of the plant, its small size in terms compared to other countries in our environment. For this kind of justice demanded the slipping of the resolution of the dossiers - even the speech file is already significant because we are talking, rather than jurisdictional or judicial acts, almost administrative acts - can be carried out without greater problems to notaries or registrars, whose legitimation however is very limited to the time of action, since it is linked by telematic procedures, that it is not known who will finance them - as so many other laws that are presented in this House - to the congruence between the request of those who submit to this jurisdiction and the decision issued by the judicial secretaries or judges in their case. We agree that in this case, as in others, we see with great prevention the sliding of jurisdictional functions to bodies, collectives or officials outside the jurisdiction, as has happened in other laws with the registrars of the property, with the commercial registrars and with the notaries. In this case, the intervention of the notariat seems particularly relevant to us through the protection of jurisdiction, concerning the relevance and congruence in the resolution of such dossiers. Some technical improvements also refer to the distinction, which was not included in the bill discussed in this House and whose legislative iter ends today, among several types of adoption, which are three in the Spanish legal system: full adoption, which is the general, simple adoption, and non-full adoption, which is currently recognized and identified as such, with the procedures for conversion to full adoption. Perhaps we miss, Mr President - and this is the end of it - a more belligerent position in the regulation of guardianship, guardianship and custody. No one can be worse off than becoming a guardian, curator or having to have a custody situation with the strict requirements that the legal system confers on those who assume this responsibility, who go from even seeking the medical or psychological or psychiatric restoration of the person under his care or custody to managing his or her assets, in addition to being protected by the judge who has to control the effectiveness of such management. They are not only exorbitant but very complex powers to exercise for the tutor or for the curator. The existence of guardianship institutes in the public administrations, particularly in the Basque Country, in the outlying institutions, would already be the moment when, with a certain courage and audacity on the part of the legislator, the situations of guardianship - unless there is a guardian who actually exercises them voluntarily and can exercise them well - are definitively attributed to the administrative guardianship institutions envisaged or which exist in different administrations. Mr President, as in general terms the Senate's amendments are well-configured, as is the law, I do not want to finish my presentation without indicating that - disputes without controversy... - it should not be called jurisdiction, neither pleading nor voluntary. We would have to strengthen in this area and for the resolution of such non-conflicts, since there is no controversy - hence the contradiction in terms -, extra-judicial formulas for the resolution of conflicts that do not end in our practice or in our legal system. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u4	Thank you, President. As we said when the amendments to the whole were discussed - it should be remembered at this time - this is a law that comes to the House twelve years late, because in the eighteenth final provision of Law 1/2000, which is that of Civil Prosecution, the Government itself, and the legislator, it is mandated - to itself - that within one year, from the date of entry, there would be a draft law on voluntary jurisdiction in the General Courts. Twelve years later - the Civil Prosecution Act entered into force in 2001 - this law came into force, which is also produced in a very sui generis way to legislate in the last twelve years. We said then and repeated now that even if it was twelve years late, we were glad that the law finally came to the House. We said then and we repeat now that joy ended there, because the project again involved a poor legislative technique since it became an omnibus law. I should like to draw attention to the fact that Mr Olabarría has not described it this way, so careful and so demanding in this regard. Indeed, this law amends at least twelve laws in force, some of which are so close to the issue on which it is legislated as the agreements of cooperation of the State with religious and evangelical confederations and entities, patrimony of the public administrations, insurance contract, Civil Code not precisely in what has to do with this reform: notarial, mortgage real estate, capital corporations... Finally, it is a practice to legislate by taking advantage of a rule to put into it everything that at that time is thought of by the Executive, which has the majority of the group that helps it to legislate from the House. It seems to me to be a very insecure legal technique, we have shown it on many occasions and this time it has re-produced. It comes late, a law that should have been in force for twelve years; it passes through Congress and arrives in the Senate. What is the main novelty that has been introduced in the Senate, beyond some of the amendments to which Mr Olabarría has referred, another series of technical amendments, as is usually the case in the Senate, and others - which have already been mentioned - which are more than techniques with which we can agree? The main novelty of this law that comes to this House twelve years late and to speed up justice is that the Senate postpones its entry into force for two years. This is the most important novelty. To decongest the administration of justice comes twelve years late and the most important thing the Senate does is to postpone its entry into force in two years. I don't think it's very constructive, frankly. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. This law confirms once again that things can be done late and wrong; late because, as has already been pointed out, this is a law that had a mandate of twelve years ago and bad because this law is further proof of that kind of legislative fury that has entered the government that considers that making many laws is making better policy. The truth is that life proves the opposite, when there are no policies what is done are laws; when there is no judicial policy what is done are many laws. Moreover, this law has, without a doubt, beyond what the Oxymoron itself means, the contradiction in terms of voluntary jurisdiction - this could be an anecdote - a fundamental feature, which revolves around those rails that the Government has wanted to give to its judicial policy which consists in: if I am not able to solve the problems of the Administration of Justice what I do is to create parallel mechanisms for a right to become a property that is likely to be acquired or purchased. From that perspective, this bill, which we see today at second reading, has a profound legislative atomization and will again be adopted without the basic consensus, which on such a subject should be fundamental. Forty amendments have been made in the Senate. We have no inconvenience in recognizing that some are improvements in your treatment, but they do not change your fundamental aspect. That is why we continue to disagree with the maintenance and increase, in some cases, of powers to notaries and registrars of the property. This country needs a debate about what it wants to do with the notaries and registrars of the property. The two perform public functions, in one case, that of property and commercial registrars, it is said that they are public officials with very specific characteristics - the Government always insists on this - but they have a system of remuneration that is very much like the private and little like the public sphere. Gradually without making a global debate they are being given functions that were previously in the hands of public services, of the judicial bodies; I fear they are due more to the attempt to fulfill the professional role of these bodies than to give way to the administration of justice. I insist, it is not a specific issue of this law. Yesterday we had the opportunity to analyse in the Justice Commission the Civil Prosecution Act - beautiful, precious, immeasurable - without a single recourse to put it into effect, so the laws passed in this Congress could all be explanatory; they are the list of the wishes of the Government, because if the wishes are not accompanied by resources they become desires trap in some cases. This law loses some opportunities, for example, to expand the functions and powers of judicial secretaries. We have a body of judicial secretaries who, as a result of the various reforms, are in a situation in which they are not always recognized for the fundamental role they can play in the field of justice; this law again misses that opportunity. In short - I don't know how to say it at this point in the legislature - if anyone has any influence with the government - I don't know if they have it, supposedly, the group that supports or supports it, you never know exactly what it is - let them tell you, please, that less laws and better hairstyles, because that's the only thing we do is generate legal insecurity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Jané has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum because of the importance of the bill that will definitely be passed today in these General Courts. It is a bill - it has already been highlighted - that comes with many years of delay, because the call to the legislator to regulate specifically a law of voluntary jurisdiction comes already from the Law 1/2000, of 7 January, of Civil Prosecution. I would like to remind you that precisely this provision was made to adapt our procedural system to the reality in all countries, to separate the voluntary jurisdiction from the general procedural regulation. That separation, that normative autonomy that must have a bill such as that of voluntary jurisdiction, a matter such as voluntary jurisdiction, was a longing already for twelve years, as well as the finding that we should overcome a model that already comes from 1855, which meant having the special regulation of voluntary jurisdiction within the Civil Prosecution Act. We must give it that regulatory autonomy and do so with the necessary rigour. Therefore, welcome be this bill, which - I repeat - is important. I would like to congratulate all those who have made this possible, and also to point out that, when we talk about delay, some rapporteurs in the Committee on Justice, such as Mr Olabarría and those who speak to them, remember that it was not so, because there has already been a very serious attempt to regulate it with a draft law of voluntary jurisdiction. I would like to recall that it was in the 2004-2008 Legislature that the former Socialist Government introduced a bill of voluntary jurisdiction. It was processed in Congress. With that will now held by the People's Parliamentary Group, but also then by the Socialist Group to deal with everything with full legislative competence in the Commission - yesterday we had an example in the civil prosecution bill; all to a letter in a session of the Commission - there were so many disagreements in the votes for amendments that came out of Congress a totally contradictory draft, with some articles in version A and others in version B. This is already part of the hemerotecs of parliamentary law. How can a draft with version A of article 20 and version B of the same article come out of Congress? That committee adopted contradictory amendments; it was such a contradiction that later in the Senate the Socialist Group, which had a majority in Congress but not in the Senate, where the majority group was the People's Group, could not in any way correct, through Senate amendments, the dysfunctions and contradictions of the text that had emerged from Congress. It was a unique example in that legislature. The Government had to withdraw the bill of voluntary jurisdiction that was already at its last stage in the Senate, but that never reached the State Official Gazette. Today, therefore, we must be pleased that the draft law - a law already from today's vote - of voluntary jurisdiction will finally be adopted. I would like to congratulate all those who have made it possible, and in a very special way the professor of the Autonomous University of Madrid - accompanies us today in the rostrum - don Antonio Fernández de Buján and Fernández for his intense work for so many years working in favour of a specific regulation on voluntary jurisdiction. He was vocal in the papers made in 2002-2005 - these remind us of that previous bill that was finally withdrawn - and in the 2012 paper. He has participated in them within the General Codification Commission, whose components I would also like to thank for his intensive work in pre-legislating, helping the General Courts in the bills to be dealt with. Having done this deserved thanks, I also wanted to position myself on some specific aspects that deserve reflection. We are not legislating in the way that we would like the majority of parliamentary groups; it is certainly the one that pleases the absolute majority, but not this House in general or the legal operators. We are tired of seeing how the Government presents, legitimately, as it could not otherwise be, a draft law and that, at the moment of presentation, the majority group - legitimately, because it absolutely supports the Rules of Procedure - offers hundreds of amendments that give a different version to the initial draft law of the Government. The first amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups are therefore worthless because the articles we have already amended are replaced by new amendments tabled by the majority group. That is not the way to legislate; it is not only not the way to legislate, but it is not a way to properly respect the rights of amendment that Members of other groups who have studied a bill for themselves, because they suffer from such a global change in the procedure of presentation and the Commission that becomes another, a fact that we regret. Of these mutations there are examples on illustrative occasions, I will put one. Today comes from the Senate an amendment that deletes a paragraph from the explanatory statement. The initial draft law submitted by the Government contained a paragraph stating that the draft law would, to the extent possible, avoid alternation between the courts and other legal operators. It was a model, avoiding alternation, but through amendments from the People's Group it goes to another model, promoting alternation. Of course, the paragraph of the initial draft law, which had been passed in the course of the Congress, had to be deleted and points out that later the amendments of the People's Group themselves had changed. Therefore, beyond the goodness or otherwise of alternation, this amendment demonstrates the contradictions in which we enter into the full legislative process, and that we should avoid it in the future. I'm done. Our group is going to vote in favour of many of the amendments introduced by the Senate because they improve the bill; in some we are going to abstain and we are going to vote against others. It has been tried - already done in Congress -, expanding the notarial districts - already quoted then the mayor of Mollerussa who today accompanies us again in the plenary -, through the surrounding districts, that populations like Mollerussa can meet with that his notary will no longer necessarily be the competent to act there and that they will be able to go at best to the notary of some adjacent district that has some point of connection with that writing. We regret this because it is a way of removing, by legal means, important populations that are capitals of region, populations that have future, aspects that reinforce their character as regional capital. It is essential that you have notes that you would necessarily have to go to that writing, rather than that - now enlarged - you can go to big capitals, like Barcelona; that notary of important populations, like Mollerusa and so many others, you can find that you lose writings, lose activity, which is a direct aggression to the future of those notaries. Therefore, we must avoid it. In the Senate, attempts have been made to enter the jurisdiction between notaries and registrars. We are going to vote against the final twelfth provision, because initially there was an amendment by the People's Group to that provision in the Senate which introduced, in conciliation acts, a competitive variation that went against the collective of notaries, without reflection. It was then attempted - much better the transaction than the original of that amendment - by way of a transaction to Amendment 785 that this interference in competition in conciliation files was not so serious. Today, when you arrive at Congress, we will vote against that compromise that gave rise to that twelfth final provision because it is much better the original text, in which there was no such provision. Better the compromise than the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party, but it is better that there is absolutely nothing about that final twelfth provision. The same happens - some other spokesman has said - with the final provision twenty-first. We are extending the entry into force, and there are already prepared aspects of new competences that will not finally be implemented by this delay. We are not happy about this either, so we are not going to support it. I repeat that we congratulate all those who have made this bill possible. We are pleased that a law of voluntary jurisdiction finally comes out. I now see who was then the spokesman of the Socialist Group, Mr Julio Villarrubia, with whom we shared those sessions two weeks ago on that bill...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u9	Mr. Jané, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u10	I'm done, Mr. President. One last thing. I would also like to congratulate all the legal operators who are going to intervene in the implementation of this law, who are going to play a leading role. [[notaries, court secretaries, registrars]] We therefore welcome you to what this future law of voluntary jurisdiction will be. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the Socialist Group, Mr Such has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. When the draft law on voluntary jurisdiction was introduced, we in the Socialist Group were extremely interested in being able to reach major agreements on this, especially since the draft voluntary jurisdiction presented by the Socialist Government, which had broad support and agreement from the parliamentary groups, was about to come to light in 2010, but which, as Mr Jané said, for certain final difficulties, could not see the light in the Senate, especially because of the contradictions that arose in the tabling of the amendments. We transferred to the People's Group, the Government and the Ministry of Justice that we were fully committed to reaching agreements on this matter, especially because we believe it is necessary. At present, voluntary jurisdiction is included in the Civil Procedure Act, in the Civil Code, and creates some confusion for legal operators when working on this matter in courts and tribunals; we therefore consider it necessary. Our surprise, however, is that we have found that the draft presented has been completely distorted; there has been a tremendous difficulty in being able to propose alternatives and solutions to the problems arising from this draft law, apart from the difficulty added by the way in which the People's Group has recently been using legislation, which consists in amending the whole of the draft laws submitted with amendments. This added difficulty leads us to call for consensus and, above all, for time to be able to deal with such changes. It requires new reports from the General Council of the Judiciary, the Attorney General's Office, the Attorney General's Office, prosecutors, etc. All these reports have not arrived, there have not been, with regard to the almost 200 amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which makes the task enormously difficult. We also considered that the project lacked something quite relevant, namely that it did not regulate the whole of voluntary jurisdiction, but regulated a party and left parties out of it. Therefore, we did not share or understand what this was all about. The lack of consensus that has taken place, both in the paper and in the Commission, makes it extremely difficult for this bill to be voted in favour and in a comprehensive manner. In addition, there is also a commitment to conservative ideology in this bill, through privatization, although I have to admit that the amendments of the People's Group have tried to establish the criterion of alternation in certain procedures, and that is to be welcomed. However, it is no less true that it really leaves procedures in the hands of private legal operators, which we do not share, and therefore we will not support it. We indicate the will to improve the law during the debate, and we come to table ninety-four amendments to the article in Congress, of which the People's Group only accepted or transacted seven, a tiny part of the effort made for the sake of consensus and the agreement that the Socialist Group had put forward. In the Senate our group has tabled one hundred and eighty-one amendments, of which nine have been accepted or fucked. Transactions are so unsatisfactory that we have to vote against or abstain. With regard to the transactions submitted, only two have been approved. This is the case in the amendment on the registration of the matrimonial property regime when it is not registered and is intended to be registered. We are told that she is fucked when a matter of style is collected, not of substance, because if there are no capitulations, the need for the provision of a notoriety record is maintained, which only makes sense to protect third parties in good faith, and whose processing guarantees nothing but a record that the spouses and witnesses who bring it tell the truth. This kind of procedure would really have to be improved and amended. The same is true of the amendment referred to in the letter of consent for the donation of organs by a living person, which although it reflects the fundamentals, we do not understand why it has not been included in its literality, which was more concise, precise and clearer. Thus, despite the good words and statements in favour of bringing positions closer, the reality is clumsy and the People's Group has been more eager to satisfy other interests than to seek agreement on this necessary law. And I say interests, because through this law there has been what is happening in so many other laws. Yesterday we saw how the Law on Free Legal Assistance was introduced in the Civil Prosecution Act, when the Government has submitted a bill on free legal assistance. They have introduced it through amendments to the Civil Prosecution Act and not with a specific law. It seems to us that this way of legislating, ladies and gentlemen, is neither good nor correct nor modern, nor that it attempts to generate consensus. We have already indicated to you during the debate in the Commission that, instead of discussing the amendments tabled, which we are accustomed to in this Parliament, they are amending through their amendments. It must be recognized that the issue has not been so blatant in the Senate, but once again they have used the amendments to change very relevant aspects of the text submitted by Congress. The text that is returned to us from the Senate has fundamentally undergone technical changes, but there are other changes not so technical as, for example, the one made in the adoption file or the introduction of the possibility of holding conciliation procedures by the registrars, which the colleague of Convergence i Unió pointed out. Last week the Mortgage Law was passed and today we find that the Mortgage Law is re-amended, through the law of voluntary jurisdiction, by the Mortgage Law. Let us hope that next week we will not encounter any new changes through this way of legislating, and it is that when something is happening to them they address it in a later law, even though it has absolutely nothing to do with it. This is the way the People's Party legislates. I would like to briefly outline a number of aspects that we consider to be fundamental, and that make us definitely against this bill. One of them is the issue of notarial monitoring. We have said in the Commission - and we have explained this in the amendment as a whole we have tabled - that the issue of notarial monitoring seriously harms normal citizens. It harms those debtors who could oppose and who could exercise a much more effective and much faster right of defence. However, large companies will be able to go to their notary head office, and will be able to seal their invoices and will have an immediate executive character vis-à-vis third parties, and vis-à-vis third parties often without the possibility of defence. We also voted against - we said so - because we do not like the issue of the notarial forum established by the law itself, since it always harms the same: ordinary citizens, who will have to face complaints in notaries that are not close to their home or their territory, but will have to go where the plaintiff or creditor proposes the initiative, which will not be precisely the notary of their territory or their area. We have already said that we are not going to share it, because this seriously undermines the rights of the most disadvantaged people. Although progress was made in the proceedings in the Congressional Commission on the introduction of the alternation between judicial and legal-private operators, in some cases - I said earlier - it is still not fully in place. For example, alternation has not been incorporated into matters of succession, which is important. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate procedure has not been used to improve the text or to build a consensus, because I have already said that virtually no amendments from the Socialist Group have been adopted. I ask you to be concerned that in the Ministry of Justice there is someone - I ask you please - who knows how to harmonize the troupe of laws and amendments to laws that have been made in recent months, because legal operators are extremely concerned about the situation. Some laws amend others that have nothing to do with it, and at the request of certain operators new elements are introduced, so we hope that there will be some thinking head in the ministry - we often doubt it - that can harmonize this troupe of legislation that you have proposed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Such. Mrs Escudero has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u14	I was getting confused, I didn't know if we were dealing with the debate on the voluntary jurisdiction law or a debate on how we organized the functioning of the Ministry of Justice. I think this rostrum is for other things. Ladies and gentlemen, voluntary jurisdiction was an unfulfilled legislative mandate, which we are fulfilling today. In the investiture speech of December 19, 2011, Mariano Rajoy expressed, as future president of the Government of Spain, that it was one of its priorities in the legislative field to approve in this legislature the law of voluntary jurisdiction. This political will was due to the urgency and necessity of reforming voluntary jurisdiction in order to respond to the social need for new civil justice, and the Government of the People's Party has complied with it. It was difficult to overstate the importance of the issue of voluntary jurisdiction. It is not enough to review the large number of procedures that fall under this category, which - mentioning some of them - range from the appointment of a judicial defender to the setting of a deadline for the fulfilment of obligations, through the declaration of absence and death, conciliation, the appointment of an accountant-partner, out-of-court auctions, dispensations of marital impediments, dissolution of companies or the out-of-court claim for debts, among others. The reform of voluntary jurisdiction was one of the remaining pieces to be included in the organizational chart of the Administration of Justice, mandated by the Civil Prosecution Act 2000, to regulate voluntary jurisdiction in a special law, ordering the Government to refer a bill to the Courts within one year. It is true that it has not been a year, but fifteen, and it has also been after a text that was much worked out, and that was withdrawn, surprisingly and surprisingly, by the Socialist Government. During these fifteen years the old provisions on the subject, contained in Book III of the Civil Prosecution Act of 1881, ladies and gentlemen, have been maintained and have been applied, and we are in 2015, as well as a mixture of provisions contained in scattered legislation such as the Civil Code, the Commercial Code, mortgage legislation, the Civil Registration Act and Regulations, the Insurance Contract Act, the Intellectual Property Act, the Law on Judicial Authorization for the Extraction of Organs, the Law on filiation, parental authority and the economic regime of marriage, the Law on Guardianship and Custodial Care, the Law on Reception, Custody and Custody of Minors and Adoption, the Change of Cheque Act, the Law on Child Abduction and the Law on Property Protection of Persons with Disabilities, have been applied. Ladies and gentlemen, today there are more than two hundred specific procedures of voluntary jurisdiction. With this law that today we are going to approve definitively the voluntary jurisdiction ceases to be a box of tailors of procedures of such a heterogeneous nature as, in addition to those mentioned above, those of a judicial authorization for the sterilization of a person incapacitated with serious psychic deficiency, a delinquent of non-registered farms, a declaration of heirs abintestate, disagreements in the exercise of parental authority or in the marital community, the declaration of legal absence or judicial authorization for the extraction and transplantation of organs of living donors. I wanted to quote explicitly the legal texts to which this rule affects so that we can see the multitude of legal texts of such importance that they affect it, and so important and so day-to-day specific assumptions of citizens to highlight the importance of this law not only legal, because of the wide variety of legislative texts to which it affects, but also as I have said to them of social importance, because this law responds to so many of the problems of day-to-day people. As I said at the beginning, it responds to the social need for a new, more agile, more effective and closer civil justice. And I said that I wanted to quote explicitly the legislative texts concerned and some assumptions that it will regulate because I think it is fair to get this law out of the frivolous debate raised by some parliamentary groups on the privatization of justice, on a two-way justice, that of the rich and that of the poor. I sincerely believe that all those who have put all their work and teaching into the drafting and drafting of a good legislative text such as this do not deserve as much simplification in their work. We cannot allow such a relevant text for Spanish society, for the day-to-day life of citizens, to become only the law by which notaries can celebrate marriage or separate. I understand that from a media point of view and for those who are not such experts, but for legislators, Your Honor, legislators with capital, no. We cannot allow the important thing to be trivialized from within - they are already in charge from outside - at least we defend what we do and we attach importance to what it has, and this text has it, ladies and gentlemen, so it must be treated with rigour and seriousness as it will be by all legal operators and legal scholars. I would like briefly to highlight as features of this law, first of all, the articulation of a general guarantee procedure, bringing the general procedure of voluntary jurisdiction closer to the contentious procedure itself, and in particular the procedure of the oral trial itself. Secondly, the judicialization of administrative procedures to be incardinated into the competence of qualified public officials, such as judicial secretaries, notaries and registrars of property and merchants. The necessary defence of judicial guardianship in certain matters, Your Honor, does not prevent the redistributing between judges and judicial secretaries the powers assigned to the judicial body, and de-judgment those circumstances which by their very nature can be attributed to other legal professionals as notaries and registrars of property and merchants, in view of their specialization and their relevant role in the framework of legal certainty. Thirdly, the option of preferential alternation between judicial secretaries, notaries and registrars, which will undoubtedly mean a benefit for citizens, in so far as they may choose to apply, with the same degree of legal certainty, to the judicial secretary free of charge at the time of voluntary jurisdiction free of charge; or to do so before a notary or registrar when they consider that payment of the tariff compensates them for reasons of speed, specialty or proximity. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe - and I really believe this - that we have done a good law among all of us, and I would like to stress among all of us: there have been many amendments tabled by all the parliamentary groups, amendments from all groups have been incorporated into the text that have undoubtedly improved it. In the process of this bill, both in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, there has been the approval of a greater number of compromise amendments than in most of the drafts approved in this legislature. And we must highlight it. So he's got a little bit of everyone, and that's very good. Mr Jané, your negative view of the acceptance by the people's sovereignty, of the citizens, of the Chambers of this law is unfair, I tell you with all my affection, Mr Jané. He likes legal operators, among other things, Your Honor, because with the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Committee on Justice, which passed the law with full legislative power, those amendments were a reflection of the agreements adopted by the various legal operators, who had negotiated between them and had adopted agreements on alternation. Why don't we pick up those deals, and we're gonna do something different than what they're asking us to do? Ladies and gentlemen, this law has the acceptance, both of the legal operators who are going to approve it and of the majority of the General Courts. Don't you think that's enough? But we cannot forget the work of other people in the drafting of this rule, and among them there is no doubt Professor Don Antonio Fernández de Buján, who is with us today in the guest gallery, and I want to pay a tribute to justice, for his commendable work and teaching, to whom we can now call the father of voluntary jurisdiction. [[Applauds]] His brilliant career in the teaching of law, author of numerous and excellent studies, jurist of recognized prestige, his rigorous and constant study, his desire to contribute to the improvement of the normative quality of our legal system, has left a mark of excellence in voluntary jurisdiction. Thank you from here. As far as I'm concerned, voluntary jurisdiction has given me a great friend, and it's not easy these days. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. In this law, relevant personal and property rights and interests of individuals are at stake, so it would be desirable to have as much consensus as possible in order to ensure their permanence over time. I end by thanking the Ministry of Justice, all the rapporteurs of all the parliamentary groups and the lawyers, for the work done - and I say it wholeheartedly too - and for the patience shown. Men pass, memories remain, as remains the works of those who do something. Ladies and gentlemen, we will pass, but our work will always remain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Escudero.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u16	Presentation and discussion of amendments to the draft law on the protection of food quality. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Environment has the floor to present and defend this project.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u17	Thank you very much, President. I have the honour to appear before this House to present the draft law for the defence of food quality, which complements the very important normative work that the Government has been carrying out in the area of food quality throughout this legislature. The lack of attention paid in previous legislatures to quality protection has required that we have had to do, and continue to do, important work in this area to update existing legislation and to respond adequately to the needs of consumers and operators. To make this possible, we are working on a comprehensive regulatory review programme that regulates the commercial quality of food. To date, among the rules already published, those in process and in which work is under way, a total of sixteen royal decrees regulating the quality of nearly five hundred food products have been agreed with the different sectors. We have also paid particular attention to differentiated quality. To this end, we promoted Law 6/2015 of 12 May on protected designations of origin and geographical indications of supra-autonomous territorial scope, published in the BOE on 13 May, which has strengthened the capacity of the regulatory councils to act; a law that will result in a greater guarantee of the products covered by these geographical indications. With this new bill on the defence of food quality, the need for a basic, up-to-date and effective standard for an effective defence of the commercial quality of food has been met for years. As you know the commercial quality of a food refers to the set of properties and characteristics that define the components, the processing process and their identification. Through this bill, which is essential to enhance and ensure the proper development of the Spanish agri-food sector, three of the priority objectives set by the Government in this area are addressed: the protection of the interests of the consumer through the protection of the quality of the products at their disposal; the promotion of the improvement of the competitiveness of our agri-food sector and the defence of Spanish products in international markets; and the incorporation of the principles of the Law on the Guarantee of Market Unity into the rules governing the control of food quality, as well as their adaptation to Community regulations; objectives which are defined as a step to be described. It is an essential objective for this Government to defend the interests of the consumer and to protect the quality of food products. In order to give effect to quality protection, the competent authorities must have the appropriate legal instruments to enable them to carry out the official controls necessary to verify compliance with the standards defining quality. In turn, a sanctioning regime is required to deter, and where appropriate effectively correct, potential breaches. With regard to the drive to improve the competitiveness of our agri-food sector, and the presence of Spanish products in international markets, we cannot forget the growing strength of our agri-food sector with an increasing presence in the external markets, and with a very significant weight in our economy. But maintaining the success of Spanish food exports requires maximizing the guarantees of its quality in order to respond at all times to the demands and needs of consumers. It is also an unrelenting task to incorporate the principles of the Market Unity Guarantee Act into the rules governing food quality control and their updating and adaptation to Community rules. In the drafting of this law, special attention has been paid to the computer principles of the market unit, seeking that operators should comply with only one quality control regulation. This will remove the obstacles faced by companies in the sector by receiving different treatment depending on the autonomous community in which they operate, so that operators located in different links in the chain, wherever they operate, can have the same treatment if irregularities in their activities are detected. Moreover, this law is particularly important and necessary if we take into account that the current state legislation regulating the control of food quality and the corresponding sanctioning procedure is contained in Royal Decree 1945 of 1983, which regulates infringements and sanctions in the field of consumer protection and agri-food production. This Royal Decree of 1983 has so far been maintained; there has been no update despite our entry into the European Union in 1986, and it must be borne in mind that the European Union has subsequent and specific rules on control procedures for the marketing of foodstuffs and the pursuit of fraud, namely Regulation 882 of 2004, on official controls carried out to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food legislation, and animal health and animal welfare legislation. In the absence of such an update, the content of the royal decree is not applicable in eight autonomous communities: Aragon, the Canary Islands, Galicia, Catalonia, Andalusia, the Balearic Islands, Castilla-La Mancha and the Basque Country, which have passed their corresponding quality laws, while in the remaining nine communities, plus the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla, it continues to operate under the 1983 norm. This situation translates into serious obstacles to market unity and is causing major dysfunctions in the application of quality control procedures and the sanctioning regime between autonomous communities, which result in higher costs and lower efficiency of operators, while making it difficult to guarantee the food quality that the consumer deserves, and which leads to frequent complaints from companies, operators and different organisations. In order to achieve the above objectives, the draft law on the protection of food quality provides for various measures. First, order the system of inspections and controls at the supply chain stages. In promoting this law, efforts have been made to promote the competitiveness of enterprises by simplifying the mechanisms for controlling the commercial quality of food products throughout the chain, i.e. from the exit of the product from the agricultural holding or slaughter of animals to the arrival of the product at the logistics warehouses, prior to the premises of the food distribution for sale to the final consumer. This is in line with Community legislation and in order to ensure that foodstuffs reach the consumer with all the guarantees that correspond to their commercial quality. The control systems laid down in the law are those existing in Community legislation, although with this text they appear for the first time in Spain systematized in a single legal instrument and with the vocation of a basic norm. This is certainly an advanced regulation in our country since, at the same time as the control by the competent authorities is strengthened, it gives the operator greater capacity to act in the area of self-regulation, all under common criteria of official quality control. Secondly, to standardize and update the sanctioning regime with basic rules setting out what acts are considered to be minor offences, which are serious and which are very serious, and at the same time defining a fork in relation to the amount of sanctions. It should be noted that, for the first time, it is necessary to raise the level of due updating of the sanctioning procedure contained in the Royal Decree-Law 1945 of 1983. This update also includes a review of the level of sanctions, taking into account the European Union's mandate that sanctions should be proportionate and dissuasive. Finally, the Act establishes stable collaboration frameworks and rapid information exchange networks between the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment and the Autonomous Communities, with a view to coordinating their actions and harmonizing regulatory interpretation, with a view to strengthening the protection of consumer rights. Among other issues is the establishment as a working group of the Bureau for the Coordination of Food Quality, which is constituted as a basic instrument for cooperation between public administrations. The establishment of information exchange networks will increase the effectiveness and coordination of the control actions of the competent authorities and facilitate interconnection with the information systems being developed by the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary and in the light of the foregoing, we understand the need for a rule such as the one I have just introduced, a rule that makes it possible to defend the interests of consumers more effectively, which facilitates the guarantee of the commercial quality of our products in the external markets. A standard that updates and updates control procedures driven by the European Union. It is in turn a rule that with the maximum guarantees of effectiveness in control makes the task of operators easier, and is in line with the principles that inspire market unity. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a regulation on the control and protection of food quality, but a regulation that constitutes a modern and up-to-date framework that will promote the development of the Spanish agri-food sector as a benchmark for products of the highest quality among national consumers and also in the external markets. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. Three amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund. Let us start by defending these amendments, and first of all, the authors of the amendment and Mrs Jordà, as well as the others who are going to speak for the Joint Group, will speak. Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of this bill is to refocus autonomous powers, as you do in most of the laws you pass, is nothing new. However, beyond the absolute lack of respect for the division of competences, there is a hidden ideological will: you steal competences from the autonomous communities with the claim to impose in all areas your neoliberal offensive. The present bill is an example of this. They rob us of competences with the will to lower consumer protection standards with less demanding regulations. In addition to the administrative and competitive chaos that they generate, as well as legal uncertainty, they are allowing, inter alia, inspection activities and certification activities of the quality of Catalan agri-food products to be authorised by the corresponding certification body, for example, in Murcia, by rewarding in substance and in practice those control and certification bodies which are less stringent with food quality controls and which are more favourable to the economic interests of industry, to the detriment, of the protection of consumer rights. In short, brand Spain, brand neoliberal. In another matter, as we justify in our amendment to the whole, this bill represents a new missed opportunity to take measures to reduce food waste as required by the European Parliament. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya has already proposed in the Food Chain Act an amendment to prohibit the throwing of food suitable for human consumption to commercial establishments and to donate food to food banks, people's eateries or social organizations with the aim of matching them. However, the amendment was rejected by the People's Party. One year later, the French Parliament adopted unanimously - I stress, unanimously - a law which establishes a ban that is absolutely consistent with that of the Republican Left of Catalonia. By the way, we would also like to applaud the great work carried out in this regard by the Basque cooperative Eroski, which has been working with social organizations for nearly twenty years in product collection programmes in its stores, the donation of items that are not suitable for sale by packaging or other reasons but are suitable for consumption, and which also provides fresh products, to the extent that they claim to have reached the zero waste of food that is suitable for consumption in their entire network of shops. Good. However, food waste covers many aspects ranging from waste in production itself or in product selection to sales surpluses or home surpluses. A bill aimed at reducing food waste must contain all these aspects. In the world, ladies and gentlemen, almost 50% of healthy and edible products are lost in the various stages of the chain that goes from the producer to the consumer, I repeat, almost 50%. The waste in the European Union is equivalent to opening our fridge one day and throwing directly into the trash one out of every three foods we find in it. A scandal. These data are absolutely immoral if they relate to the data of people who go hungry in the world but also in our own society. It is immoral that in our society we are throwing food that is fit for human consumption while people go hungry or people who are in a situation of severe poverty. The immorality in many cases comes to such an extent that some large surfaces, knowing that there are poor people who record in their garbage, before throwing it break the containers so that it cannot be exploited. It is also immoral for animals to be killed to be consumed by man and for this animal sacrifice to end up lying in the garbage. In addition to the ecological footprint of food waste, it must be added that in a globalized world in which impoverished countries produce much of the food, often undermining their own food sovereignty, production that is not exploited is being taken away from the people of these countries. So much so that Tristam Stuart, of Oxfam International and author of the book Despilfarro: the global scandal of food, affirms: To throw food into the bucket of garbage is truly to distract them from the world market and to remove them from the mouth to those who go hungry. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The Spanish Government will have to face this challenge sooner or later, Minister, as the European Parliament is already demanding. Since they did not want to do so in the Food Chain Act, we propose that they withdraw this law which invades competences in order to reduce the control of food quality and that they bring a law which, in the area of their competence, faces the drastic reduction of food waste. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. I will speak from the seat to express the position of the Galego Nationalist Block in the face of these three return amendments, which can only be a favourable position because, although our group has not tabled another return amendment, we absolutely share all the arguments that the same ones make, mainly those related to the obsession of this Government to re-centralize, and thus invade autonomous powers, and to guarantee that unity of the market that seems to be the most worrying thing about the bill. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we regret that a bill that would have to be merely technical, since it would be logical to move beyond those issues relating to European directives, has once again become an invading bill of autonomous powers. The minister herself has just said in her exhibition that communities like Galicia have their own law. That is the case; in Galicia, in particular, we have Law 2/2005 on the promotion and defence of Galician food quality, which, if this bill is adopted in the terms laid down, will be absolutely invaded, as we have already said. I would therefore like to express my support and vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the three groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, how can I say no to the defence of food quality? We are all in favour of ensuring optimal food quality and also updating the obsolete 1983 legislation to bring it into line with European legislation. A real commitment to consumers, the fulfilment of obligations to know at all times the life process of a product, its traceability, the differentiation of products as a guarantee that the good done is appreciated and recognized, that is, mechanisms of protection towards our agriculture and our farmers, seems to us well. But to take advantage that the Pisuerga passes through Valladolid, that is to say to incorporate the computer principles of the Law on Guarantee of Market Unity into this field in order to homogenize and unify, in short, to re-centralize in the State exclusive competences that belong to us, is in no way admissible. Market equality does not amount to uniformity and Euskal Herria already has exclusive competence in agriculture and consumer and user protection. We already have legal texts regulating this matter, without ever having any problem or doubt about its constitutionality. Here almost all the exposure of the law goes on justifying the recentralisation, but who has said that the effective defence of the precise quality of a homogeneous norm? An effort to maintain similar criteria can be good for everyone, but centralizing in this way? This implies a blatant invasion of the exclusive ownership space that belongs to us and is, clearly, totally unjustified and illegitimate. They have done so so many times with their absolute majority roll that, as youth says, they are already grappling. The same can be said of the sanctioning regime that includes this text, because the European Union regulation they are trying to apply here does not say anything about the way in which each State must comply with that obligation internally. From there, the legal-territorial distribution that each of the Member States has is respected, as it cannot be otherwise. It is clear that the State cannot intervene in our role. The coordination table, following with the text, has a nice name but we are afraid that it is going the same way, that is, a system of control in which a superior being, the State, which has the power of direction coordinates, but again influencing actions that correspond to us competently. We do not want or need help from the Civil Guard or another state security force or body to inspect or control our products. In addition, they do so by relaxing the quality bars, they will continue to match from below, why will this standard really serve for the quality of the product to reach the consumer in a more controlled and monitored way or will it be only a makeup effect, another standard to look good, without entering into the bottom of the quality of the products? You do not look at consumers, you look after the interests of businesses and their competitiveness, to which you remove all obstacles, put the red carpet, even at the expense of everything that goes ahead, among other things the legitimate competences that belong to us. Ladies and gentlemen, this rule is late and clearly responds to the interests of entrepreneurs in the agri-food sector, that is, another rule on the neoliberal path. If they put on top of it the vest that this law cannot entail increased spending or higher wages, it seems to us to be pure theater. On the other hand, is there anything more contradictory than bringing this rule now, demanding great food quality here, while negotiating in secret the points of the free trade agreement between Europe and the United States, which, as we all know, pulls over the edge, worsens in a very serious way, the quality assurance framework for European products? It's just that we don't understand, it's totally contradictory. If you want healthy and safe food bet on a sustainable agriculture model, try to turn the situation around because you have tools for it, say no to the free trade agreement Europe-United States, get away from the transgenics, return to the land and get close to the real needs and priorities of those who work it. Let us not deceive or make up the reality of consumers, who are becoming more and more clear about what true quality is and want a living rural environment. Let Euskal Herria decide in peace how we will defend and control food quality and how we will continue to avoid food waste. And since people live not only on good food, but also on freedom, I want to tell them on behalf of Amaiur that they are already leaving police assemblies and unwarranted convictions. We demand freedom for Alfonso González. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs Ariztegui. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as other colleagues and the minister herself have said, this bill which the Government is presenting to us today has three blocks in particular. On the one hand, it focuses on basic rules; on the other, it has a sanctioning approach and, finally, it raises a question of cooperation between public administrations. That would be the basis. I start with the subject of basic regulation. In order to support the establishment of basic regulations on food quality, the State has no specific title in this field and therefore invokes Article 149.113(a) of the Constitution, which confers exclusive competence on it on the bases and general coordination of economic planning, occupying the space which exclusively belongs to the autonomous communities competent in agriculture and in defence of the rights of consumers and users, which is, for example, the case of the Basque Autonomous Community, which has both exclusive competence as set out in paragraphs 9 and 28 of Article 10 of the Statute of Gernika. The use of article 149.1.13 (a) of the Constitution for the drafting of this legal text constitutes an extra limit in the exercise of this competence which alone would be sufficient to request the return of this text to the Government. Only that is enough to tell you: gentlemen, you cannot bring a bill with this invocation; take it away. The Council of State itself, in its opinion on this text at its preliminary draft stage, stated textually: The preliminary draft, invoking article 149.1.13 (a) of the Constitution in the cross-cutting rules it introduces, certainly takes up a space to date which, in principle, has been occupied by the autonomous communities, which, under competitive titles of agriculture and consumption, have chosen to enact their own laws. To date, seven autonomous communities have enacted legal texts regulating this matter without any doubt as to its constitutionality. In the case of the Basque Autonomous Community, Act No. 17/2008 of 23 December 2008 on the Agricultural and Food Policy of the Basque Country, established within the framework of the European Union's agricultural and food policy, sets out the guiding principles to define the Basque agricultural and food policy and clarifies the institutional framework of reference for sectoral agents and citizenship in general as the ultimate beneficiaries of the activity carried out in the agricultural and food sector of the Basque Autonomous Community. I think it's pretty clear. Consequently, it is not at all admissible for the State to seek to prevent autonomous action in this area, since doing so in the terms set out in the present draft would result in overcompetence in the use of article 149.1.13 (a) of the Constitution to substantiate the drafting of this law. The State's desire to invade the exclusive ownership space of the autonomous communities in the area of food quality is manifested in expressions that appear in the draft law, such as: it is necessary to review both the general and individual aspects of food quality within the scope of the competence of the General Administration of the State. Or later it says: due to the need to establish a unitary regulatory framework that applies throughout the national territory and ensures uniform treatment for all operators covered by the scope of application, this law has been considered to be drafted. It uses terms that since the arrival of Mr. Arias Cañete to the ministry began to coin, terminology that has then continued to be applied and which is the mark of the house. These are words such as: unitary regulatory framework, national territory and uniform treatment. These are three concepts that appear in all the laws that have been brought into this House by the Ministry of Agriculture, both with Mr Arias Cañete and with Mrs García Tejerina. It's the mark of the house. All this is not free, this is assumed as a policy of its own not only of the department but of the Government, which intends to re-centralize and assume again for the State competences that are not its own. That's what the law says. Having to invoke 149.1 because it is the last thing left to be able to legislate in that way seems to me very poor and, on the other hand, not at all elegant. Secondly, we can say that the draft includes the sanctions regime in this area in compliance with Article 55 of the European Commission Regulation of 29 April. Article 55 provides for the obligation of Member States to lay down penalties applicable to infringements of feed and food law and other Community provisions on the protection of animal health and animal welfare, but without predetermining at the relevant internal level how that obligation should be complied with, thereby respecting the legal and territorial distribution of each of the Member States of the European Union. In this context, it is a constant and repeated doctrine of the Constitutional Court that the implementation of the Community rules in the Spanish legal system is the responsibility of those who materially have specific competence for the implementation of Community law - Constitutional Court judgment 236/1991 - from which it follows that the autonomous communities, as holders of the exclusive powers of this matter, have the choice of appropriate legal formula to verify the provisions of Article 55 that we have cited. It is, therefore, at least incompatible with the implementation of Community law in domestic law that the State intervenes in the role of the autonomous communities by removing them from their role. In addition, a person who has substantive competence over a specific matter is empowered to make administrative provisions in this area. This is acknowledged by the Constitutional Court when it states that the Autonomous Communities may adopt administrative sanctions rules where, having jurisdiction over the substantive matter in question, such provisions conform to the constitutional guarantees laid down in this area of sanctioning law - Article 25.1 of the European Community, basically - and do not introduce unreasonable and disproportionate divergences to the purpose pursued with regard to the legal regime applicable in other parts of the territory. In this case of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the above-mentioned Act 17/2008 on Food Agricultural Policy is in accordance with the above-mentioned doctrine of the Constitutional Court, without any condition arising from the sanctioning regime provided for in it under Article 149.1.1a of the Spanish Constitution. The third of the elements that form the object of this project is to establish the mechanisms for cooperation between public administrations, for which, among other things, you create what you call the Food Quality Coordinating Table, attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment, and which in the explanatory statement of the law itself define as a basic instrument for cooperation between administrations. Without anything to justify it, the text of the draft uses, in a disorderly manner and with a totally arbitrary character in each case, the terms cooperation and coordination and, as you know, as far as legal effects are concerned, they are substantially different from each other; one means one thing and the other means another and, depending on how they are used and how each one interprets it, they do not have the same meaning. Both cooperation and coordination are elements that shape the principle of collaboration between public administrations. What characterizes cooperation is the joint voluntariness and exercise of competences; it is decided to cooperate, equally, which results in joint decision-making, facilitating the exercise of a more effective activity in matters affecting shared competences. For its part, with regard to coordination, the Constitutional Court has understood that coordination - I quote textually - pursues the integration of the diversity of the parties or subsystems into the whole system - this seems mathematical - avoiding contradictions and reducing dysfunctions. The High Court has also said that coordination implies imposition, different from the voluntarity of cooperation relations - this seems to Barrio Sesamo, but this is the case: in the case of cooperation it is equal to the same, in the case of coordination someone coordinates and others obey, so that we understand each other - since it entails a certain power of direction as a result of the situation of superiority in which the person who coordinates the coordination - judgment of the Constitutional Court 214/1989 - but without that it implies hierarchy, since the means and techniques of coordination must respect a margin of free decision or discretion in favour of the administrations subject to it - that in coordination - without which there can be no real autonomy. Having said that, we cannot accept the articulation of a control system which, alternating in a disorderly way the use of the terms cooperation and coordination, intends to establish a control structure - which is the table for coordinating the food quality that you intend to implement through this law - whose actions are likely to directly and unjustifiably affect the development of the administrations of the autonomous communities competent in the field of food quality, and in the case of Euskadi it is very clear. In addition, the whole text of the draft law explicitly underlies - and some of the spokespersons who have spoken before me have also commented on it - the shape of the market unit on the basis of which the Government of the State intends to standardize the regulation of this matter. In the report drawn up by the General Council of the Judiciary on the occasion of the draft law on the guarantee of market unity, the body stated the following: In accordance with the doctrine drawn up by the Constitutional Court, the principle of market unity is a corollary to the single economic order which must govern the whole State. This principle ensures that the division of jurisdiction between the State and the autonomous communities does not lead to dysfunctional and disintegrative economic results that may impede the freedom of movement of goods, capital, services, etc. in the exercise of economic activity. However, market equality does not amount to the uniformity of the same, hence the compatibility between the principles of economic unity and legal diversity justify that the autonomous rules can lay down special rules in this area, provided that they do not exceed their competence and are appropriate to the legitimate purpose pursued and, in any case, the basic equality of all citizens and the free movement of goods and persons referred to in Article 139.2 of the Constitution is safeguarded. All this is said by the General Council of the Judiciary when it speaks of the Law of Guarantee of Market Unity. Some will think that I have remained only in the structure and have not entered into the content of the law, but I believe that there are steps that cannot be admitted to be given. Of course, we all want to have a law about the quality that you propose, that you keep, etc., because all that in itself the autonomous communities are already doing so and we all want to protect food quality, at least! But what can't be done is a law by jumping all the limits that the competence of that law can have. Therefore, so far, and from now on we are not going to enter because we consider that there are sufficient grounds to request the return of this bill. The principle of market unity cannot be invoked in order to neutralise in an absolute way the competition spaces which belong to the autonomous communities within the framework of the block of constitutionality since, otherwise, the division of competition between the State and the autonomous communities would be broken. For all these reasons which I believe are legally supported and which have specific weight, which are not only a matter of what I like best or what I like least or whether it really should be carried out in one way or another, since this is what the laws that are in force say, as we see that those laws are not respected and that the competition framework is not respected, we call for the Government to be returned to this bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u26	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Solsona has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again we must resign ourselves to putting forward a full amendment to a law whose adoption seeks to ignore and minimize the legislative work in this case of the Parliament of Catalonia. You see that legislating and being up to date penalizes. It is another unnecessary law as it is proposed, which only creates conflicts of interpretation and which again hides in the excuse of adapting European legislation to make interventionist policy in those areas in which the autonomous communities have exclusive competence. Thus, another law aimed at increasing State intervention in order to earn re-centralization quotas. It is a law that unifies the rules of the autonomous communities as regards the system of inspections and controls applied to food, homogenizes and updates the sanctioning regime by increasing the amount of fines and incorporates into the scope of food quality the computer principles of the Market Unity Guarantee Act, which implies that operators in commercial relations only have to comply with regulations. The aim of this harmonisation, according to the Government, is to prevent operators from being subject to administrative burdens arising from the multiplicity of autonomous regulations. In other words, the Government, with the aim of establishing an effective defence of food quality, has a basic and homogenous rule at the state level which, as a principle, allows for the implementation throughout the territory of the State of quality regulations which are less demanding in the defence of the consumer than those which determine an autonomous community, which, we understand, constitutes a genuine contradiction. So far, as the Minister has said, the object of the bill was contained in Royal Decree 1945/1983, which regulates infringements and sanctions in the field of consumer protection and agri-food production. At the same time, there have been autonomous communities which, in assuming control powers, have published their corresponding food quality law. The Government, on the one hand, considers that the sanctioning procedure should be set out in a standard. So far we could agree and share it, but that the Government should regulate food quality in a uniform way, appealing to the normative diversity existing between autonomous communities and that those that do not have it should be governed by a real obsolete decree, would not be the correct method. If the problem is that the royal decree is obsolete, the royal decree may be amended. In addition, the Government insists on the need to achieve market unity in the area of food quality, so that there are common minimum levels of official control to update the sanctioning regime and to establish effective systems of cooperation between public administrations. In short, it is a question of developing a basic legal regime for the Spanish food sector. The regulation contained in this bill does not seem to us to be minimal or basic, but rather absolutely uniform. As has already been said here by previous speakers, competition over culture and livestock resides in the autonomous communities in accordance with Article 148.1.7a of the Constitution and in the respective autonomous statutes. The Government, under article 149.1.13.a, which empowers the State on the basis and coordination of economic activity, cannot ignore the constitutional order. The memory of the regulatory impact analysis from the perspective of competition distribution literally points out that transfers were made in the early 1990s, and food fraud is currently not confined to the national territory, but transcends our borders and takes place throughout the territory of the European Union. No one can deny that Community legislation is the one that prevails in many areas; however, the Spanish State has a territorial organization and a competent distribution set out in the Constitution and in the different statutes of autonomy that should be respected. That said, the equality of treatment throughout the territory of the State and the translation of the principles of market unity constitute a serious alteration of the competition order and are devoid of content in this area of the jurisdiction statutoryly attributed to the Generalitat de Catalunya and other autonomous communities. This argument is clear from Catalonia, as can be seen from the opinion of the Council of State, in which Catalonia opposed and opposes this rule for competitive reasons, in particular because it understands that, when a regulation is established that is not basic but uniform, it is empty as I have said completely about the content of Catalan competition in this matter. In Catalonia, under this exclusive competence, Act No. 14/2003 of 13 June 2003 on Agri-Food Quality, which regulates official quality marks, the quality of agri-food products, the obligations of operators and the sanctioning regime, was adopted. In other words, its scope of regulation is virtually the same as that raised in this bill. This causes many aspects regulated by the state norm to contradict the Catalan model and law in this case. As an example, as can be seen from the project, the registration of inspection or certification bodies in the Catalonia register of control and certification bodies will not be necessary for them to work in Catalonia. It will basically be enough for a responsible declaration to have been made in any autonomous community. I also have to make, of course, a special mention of the inclusion of the principles of the Market Unity Guarantee Act through the provisions of this Act. It is a real contradiction, since the interpretation given by the law to this market unit is aimed at nullifying the most advanced consumer protection legislation in order to protect - it seems - other less demanding ones. For our parliamentary group, the principle of market unity cannot be understood under the interventionist prism of strict and monolithic uniformity which prevents the legitimate exercise of the regulatory powers of each autonomous community, mainly over the economic sectors in which it has assumed competence, but must be understood under the European prism of free compliance with European competition rules in a single market. In summary, the draft law for the defence of food quality is exceeded in the basic regulation to pursue uniform legislation by incorporating the computer principles of the Law on the Guarantee of Market Unity, void in this area the competence of the Government of Catalonia and other communities and favours the lowering of regulatory standards in areas such as consumer rights. These are the basic reasons why we have tabled this amendment to the full refund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u28	Thank you, Mr. Solsona. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in this House a bill incorporating European legislation, which has been in force for a few years now, in order to establish a general regulatory framework governing the food quality of food or food products, focusing on issues of production, labelling, traceability, etc. The food sector is key and of great importance in social and environmental terms and represents a vitally economically speaking sector. With the detailed reading of the draft, we believe that, in fact, the object of the law is to guarantee society safe and healthy food, in addition to providing the quality of information required for our society. The initiative we are discussing today includes, as it should be, European law as a reference, the transposition of European regulations and regulations which we believe will ensure quality and safety in the area regulated by law. It sets out the general principles of food regulation and it is from the European Union that the general policies of food legislation are laid down through the European Food Safety Authority, which seeks to develop appropriate mechanisms for the traceability and accountability of operators. The regulations on the regulation of health offences set out in a number of regulations referred to in the law are concentrated and condensed in this regulation, sometimes of a rather overwhelming technicality. A priori, it would seem a positive measure that would help to increase legal certainty, which also updates the sanctioning framework, and its effectiveness. Then, on the whole of the amendments that have been tabled, I will be abounding in this matter. This concentration should establish a regulatory framework that would be applied in a unitary manner throughout the national territory. For legal certainty, for regulatory equality, for consumer safety and fair competition between various Spanish operators, we consider this to be one of the fundamental aspects. The controls set out in this law reflect demands made by various professional sectors and experts in this field, which help to ensure compliance with food legislation, making it more safe and healthy for society. In addition, it includes feed and food regulations and animal health and animal welfare regulations, with the respective measures applicable to sanctions for infringements of the legislation. In the UPyD Parliamentary Group we see favourably how the draft law envisages private quality certification systems, which are based on international standards, and that an independent party establish a number of requirements and guarantees on marketed products. We understand that it is this way of acting that prevails in many international markets, often becoming a fundamental condition for access to them. However, there are certain additional provisions that lower our expectations and our positive spirit. On the one hand, it draws our attention to the fact that all the requirements required in this regulatory framework with regard to the production, labelling, traceability, etc. of Spanish products will not apply to a number of foodstuffs legally manufactured or marketed in accordance with other specifications in other countries and highlights the shadow of doubt regarding unfair competition, not between Spanish producers but with regard to these Spanish producers with international producers. We would like to remove these doubts in the project process by setting a series of minimums shared between countries so that this doubt can be evaporated. On the other hand, we have the Montoro clause, blessed clause: the measures included in this law will not be able to entail an increase in endowments and salaries or other staff costs. Really? How do we realize, implement, control, pursue, inspect, review, seize, close and a long range of issues reflected in this bill without providing, paying or generating new staff costs? As we always say, a proposal without budget accompaniment is a toast to the sun and we believe that in this case the health of the Spaniards deserves to be offered with some funds. The amendments to the whole that some parliamentary groups bring to us call for a competitive invasion, but in this case, although we can agree in some of the approaches that are being made that some autonomous communities have legislation that deals with similar matters, much more concrete, more specific and demanding and with higher penalties in the event of non-compliance in some cases, and that in coexistence they create legal uncertainty for operators and consumers, we believe that the common good, that is, the fact that a general legislative framework is created for the whole of Spain, so that those autonomous communities that are applying previous and obsolete legislation have a minimum legal framework, is something more positive and we will therefore not support these amendments in full, but we do announce that in the process of amendments to the joint text, if we find amendments that go in that direction, we will have no hesitation in supporting them. For all that I have said, both the good and what we believe is clearly better - very much better, in fact - and that, as we have already put forward, we will amend the joint text during the processing of this draft law, since UPyD we will vote in favour of this draft so that, with the input of all the groups, we will improve this text, far from ideological issues, prioritizing the general interest of all the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u30	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the government is bringing us a bill that is substantially nothing more than a sanctioning framework for fulfilling the obligation laid down in Article 55 of Regulation 882/2004, of the European Parliament and of the European Council. We are therefore referring to a European regulation eleven years ago: time has passed to catch up. Article 2 of the draft law states: 'The following are excluded from its scope: sanitary and food safety aspects; specific legislation on genetically modified organisms and the irradiation of foodstuffs; offer for sale to the final consumer, including workers in retail facilities; external trade; primary production, including animal welfare legislation; and organic production'. In other words, a food quality law is created and brought to Parliament, which does not comprehensively address the central elements of food quality and safety, aspects in which European legislation does place particular emphasis, especially through the system of risk analysis and critical control points and also the hygiene package provided for in Regulations 852 and 853, also in 2004, mainly in products manufactured or processed. I know that there are regulations in the Spanish field. We already know that the Government passed a royal decree-law on the food chain a few months ago. What is surprising to us is that, instead of taking a global initiative from the Government, together with the various ministries - especially the ministries of Agriculture and Health - and bringing to Parliament a real law of quality and food security, we are being brought with us a framework of sanctions. The opportunity is lost for the whole system of food quality and security to be included in the presentation and discussion of this law in a comprehensive manner. That being said as a general aspect, which coincides with the amendments to the whole that have been tabled, we are not surprised, because it is the tonic of the People's Party and of the Government of the People's Party, that the minister calls on the market unit to make a twisting reading of the Constitution through Article 149.1.17.a - to which other spokespersons have already referred - to invade exclusive competences of the autonomous communities, competences that are very clear in agriculture and in defence of the rights of consumers and users. We are talking about skills that communities already have on an exclusive basis. The Constitutional doctrine on this matter is very clear, as is the view of the Council of State in the opinion on the preliminary draft of this Law. Why do not the People's Party and the Government assume that the role of the State must be of coordination - we do not discuss it - but also of cooperation with the rest of the public administrations, respecting the competences they have? A moment ago, the spokesman for the Basque Group made this very clear. [[EAJ-PNV]] I think it was very transparent and very enlightening his argument by linking the element of collaboration with volunteering. There must be willfulness, williness to coordinate, to participate, to be loyal institutionally, but there must be a fundamental element that is political will, and the People's Party and the People's Party Government have no political will to respect those exclusive powers that the Constitution assigns to the autonomous communities. It is not acceptable, Minister, to appeal to market unity to violate the spirit and the constitutional doctrine. The division of jurisdiction between the State and the autonomous communities cannot be broken simply by the will and uniforming intention of the People's Party and the Government. It is a constant provocation of the People's Party in this regard. Moreover, the excuse of market unity serves to nullify or dilute much more demanding autonomous legislation in the defence of consumers' interests and clearly in line with European requirements. We do not understand, as is usually the case in the bills brought by the Government, how we insist not to increase spending. It is not understandable, it is not acceptable and it also violates the common sense: a law cannot be implemented, with all the derivatives it entails in its management and implementation, without increasing the expenditure. Therefore, as the position of the Plural Left Group, we make it very clear that we will support the amendments as a whole and that in the process of amendments we will try to present those which we believe can help to improve a text which is basically characterized by a sanctioning framework and which invades autonomous competences. I would say to you, Minister, gentlemen of the Government, that you are still in time, even if there is little left of the legislature, to make a real law on food safety and quality that integrates all the existing legislation, that is comprehensive, that is really a law on food safety and quality. The Plural Left Group's request is what the citizens of this country deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u32	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Moya. For the Socialist Group, Mr Alonso Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I take the floor to set out the position of the Socialist Group on this subject in the draft law on the protection of food quality. The Socialist Group is going to abstain from voting on the three amendments to the whole tabled by the Convergence and Union Group, by the Basque Group, PNV, and by the Joint Group, but I am also going to tell you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill does not like the Socialist Group. We believe that the project is based on a good intention, but the result is disappointing, and if it is adopted as it is configured, it will only bring more confusion and more contentiousness to the complex legal framework of food legislation. The issue of food quality is a matter of great concern to us, not since yesterday or the day before yesterday, but forever. Already the socialist government in the last legislature faced the need to shape the bases of Spanish food law and for this it presented two fundamental legal texts that should be the two legal pillars of this new building. The first was the Food Security and Nutrition Act, a bill that, after a very long process, was passed in 2011 and that is in force, after a broad process and with a broad consensus - I repeat, we will see the consensus that brings together this bill -. On the other hand, a preliminary draft law aimed at regulating the fundamental aspects of developing and ordering the regulatory framework of the Spanish agri-food sector, including the regulation of issues such as differentiated quality, quality control and quality inspection, was drawn up. This second bill did not see the light, as you know, minister, certainly because it was impossible to overcome the reluctances, difficulties and legal disabilities that this bill we are discussing today contains. And what do we find now, what does the government bring us? We are faced with a bill that, given that the legal rules on food security are already passed, that the Government has already forwarded and approved a bill that has to do with differentiated quality, is a bill with other issues, with what remains of regulation - we might say - in relation to quality, which is colloquially called legislation or the fraud package, Minister. What does your law include? What is included in the law is a common system of quality control and a sanctioning system applicable throughout Spain, all of which, according to the law itself, is designed to prevent food fraud, in order to improve the quality of food goods that are finally placed on the market. This is a generic goal and I have nothing to object to; more than that, we share it. The problem is how the Government tries to respond to this goal. The question is, Minister - and that is what we must all ask ourselves - whether this text, as the Government has referred to the House, is going to provide an adequate response to this problem. The question to be resolved, Minister, is whether, after the adoption of this draft law, the Spanish State as a whole will be able to better address the problem of food quality, in particular that of controlling fraud and combating food crises. Minister, if, after the adoption of this bill, a case like the last one we had in Spain, that of spring 2013, which was known as horsemeat fraud, do you believe that the autonomous communities will act more effectively with this bill than with the previous autonomous laws? For I sincerely believe that with this bill, which overlaps or intertwines with autonomous legislation, the only thing that will be done is to complicate the matter for inspectors, for trainers and for sanctioning bodies. It gives us the impression, Minister, that with this bill the only ones that are going to win are the offices of lawyers, because the competition regime enshrined in the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy, Minister, is the one that there is, and, with which there are, with autonomous competences assumed in the statutes, Spain has effectively faced and resolved serious food crises well. We start with the rape, we go on with the crazy cows, with the avian flu, etc. Gentlemen of the People's Party, if you do not like this system, this competitive distribution between the state and the autonomous communities, you should be brave and propose to change it, but you do not, and with this law the ministry does not have or will have inspectors, nor will it be able to investigate files, nor will it be able to sanction, simply because this is a matter of autonomous competence. In any case, we will be processing a law that can only be applied with peace of mind, in quotes, in the absence of autonomous legislation, and you know, because all the spokespersons who have intervened have already said that in Spain there is autonomous legislation, quality autonomous laws, in Andalusia, in Aragon, in Castile-La Mancha, in Castile and León, in Catalonia, in Galicia and in the Basque Country, which have their own food quality laws. It is true, Minister, that the State has had legislation in force and a sanctioning regime since the 1980s and that it has not been updated, but it should be examined why it has not been updated. I do not think it is out of vagueness either of the governments of the People's Party or of those of the Socialist Party. It hasn't been updated because it's complicated, because it's difficult, because maybe it can't be. In this sense, Minister, I say to you that this does not change in this way and you, gentlemen of the People's Party and especially the Minister, should have spent at least a minute to seek consensus with the political parties or the autonomous communities. This legal change, which we agree on the origin that may have to be made, should have come with at least a minimum level of consensus-building with parliamentary groups or with the autonomous communities. And you have already seen how it comes, with the autonomous communities facing the bill and with the parliamentary groups that know nothing at all because they have neither gathered us nor explained the content, objectives or anything about this project. The law that we are beginning to deal with today is not going to improve the response to these kinds of problems and will not, Minister, because if there is no improvement in the parliamentary procedure, and I do not think there is much improvement in this bill, there are very obvious shortcomings. I'm only going to refer to two because I don't have much time. Firstly, the object and scope of the law and, secondly, the competence to which I have referred. The concept of food quality contained in article 4 of the draft law and the scope of application which positively and negatively delineates article 2 are not sufficiently concrete, Minister. We have been told by all the operators who have come to explain the law to us. This will create legal security problems for operators who will be subject to this law and who have transferred it to us. We have amended these matters as the Council of State says. I don't know if they'll take any of our proposals. The amendments to the bill say that the law invades autonomous powers in the area of food quality controls and I believe, even if I am not a lawyer, that this is obvious, Minister. The General Administration of the State can and does make technical-sanitary regulations, quality standards, but getting involved in these issues that regulate the law is at least problematic. They should have listened to the Council of State, which says literally in its report on the competition issue, on the existence of competences and autonomous legislation, that a system must be sought 'leaving a considerable margin of discretion to the autonomous communities as an instrument for progress in Spain in harmonizing the system of food quality controls'. This is what the sector demands, Minister. I know what the agri-food sector is asking for right now, I do know that and from that perspective I say that the sector is demanding that the whole system of controls be uniform throughout the Spanish territory, that professional activity be facilitated and promoted, but this bill, Minister, does not guarantee it. The sector is demanding that the General Administration of the State first coordinate itself, that it create a single body dedicated to the issues of control and food security, which is at this time a gallimatías. You could say that at this time and also in the previous one, but the sector is demanding that there be a single food control body in Spain and that all government activities be coordinated and coordination with the autonomous communities be ensured, which is not achieved by this bill. We therefore hope that the law can be improved in the parliamentary process. In conclusion, Madam Minister and Spokesman of the People's Group, who will speak next, would make an appeal. It is a law that can be an opportunity but not as it is configured and therefore again I appeal to the parliamentary majority, to you minister because they are not going to do anything without your permission - this is for sure - so that we try to make a serious, rigorous, debateable handling of the bill, which attempts to bring together around this law with this beautiful name of defense of food quality a minimum consensus in Parliament. I'm not sure this is gonna be it. We were told this morning that the majority is expected after the deadline for amendments - which ends today - to meet for the presentation on Monday and vote on the law on Wednesday. It gives me the impression that there has not been or seems to be a desire for consensus and that the law will therefore be adopted as all the previous ones, with the roll of the People's Party. You have neither the slightest will to listen to nor to study - I conclude, Mr President - the proposals of the opposition and unfortunately - well, fortunately for the Spaniards - this is the case. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u34	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Lapazarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is for me to set out the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on this rule and on the three amendments that have been tabled in their entirety. Before we continue, I would like to thank the Minister for the explanations she has given us on the draft bill. I would like to make a few statements in the light of what has been heard by the amendments and also by the various parliamentary groups. The law - the minister has already said - comes to cover with a basic norm the need to establish a series of guarantees and control over food products for the defense of their quality. These quality guarantees are important, as they are the basis of our country's agri-food production as it transfers confidence to the consumer. This trust and quality are the key to the success of our products in both internal and external markets. We are talking about a strategic sector that makes more than 100 billion euros, which alone in the food industry gives jobs to 450,000 people - 2.5 million between farmers and trade as well - and exports more than 30 billion euros. In other words, a strategic sector from an economic, labour and territorial point of view. This bill is intended to respond to the legal vacuum that exists and that the European Union has been demanding to cover. The importance of the law is therefore clear. The first of the reasons why it is important is that we have before the European Union a number of commitments in the area of food control. It was already stated in Regulation 882/2004, Mr Agirretxea and Mr Solsona, that there is something I will read to them: Member States must apply in a harmonised way - I repeat, in a harmonised way - the broad set of rules on official food control. In addition, Regulation 1069/2011, which just entered into force on 13 December 2011, said something which I also read to you textually: Member States must carry out official controls to enforce this Regulation in accordance with Regulation 882, which it said in a harmonised manner. And he added:... in order for the citizens of the European Union to enjoy a high level of human, animal and plant health. Ladies and gentlemen, what is regulated by this law is precisely what we are being asked and demanded from the European Union, that is to say - and I repeat - we are being asked for a rule that applies official controls in a harmonised way. The aim of the law is precisely to establish the necessary provisions and principles to develop the basic legal framework for the Spanish food sector, regulating such fundamental aspects as food quality, the aspects of official control and drafting of regulations. In order to achieve these objectives, the Minister has already said, it incorporates the principles of the Market Unity Guarantee Act into the scope of food quality. It is true, but there is also a very powerful reason to support this law: that food and drink operators ask us for a law as a result of their perception of fragmentation in the market unit and this affects them very negatively. They ask because they see very serious dysfunctions in the application of official control and sanctioning regime to food businesses, according to which autonomous communities are located. It may be suspected that such unequal treatment in the inspection and sanctioning pressure of the Autonomous Communities adversely affects the legal and economic security of enterprises and their choice to settle in one or other Autonomous Community. It is the responsibility of the public authorities to address this situation and resolve it so that companies can operate on equal terms throughout the country. Not only do companies ask but also consumers themselves to ensure that products with the same levels of control are in one or another autonomous community. Hence the need to establish a basic framework. Three amendments have been tabled, all of which are intended to be withdrawn. The first was Esquerra's. I would like to say to Mrs Jordà that the scope of this law has nothing to do with the waste of food but with the incorporation of regulations on controls and food quality. But I also want to tell you one thing. In 2013, this Government adopted a strategy - More food and less waste - with the aim of reducing losses and food waste. This strategy has been based on five key pillars: the generation of knowledge and information on the problem; awareness-raising and the establishment of good practices; policy aspects; collaboration with other actors; and the promotion and development of new technologies to help minimize the problem. This Government is working on it; also tell its Government to work on the same subject and to address these issues. With regard to the amendments by the Basque Group - which the spokesman has already said - they refer to an overcompetence, an improper sanctioning system, a lack of coordination between the terms of cooperation and coordination and questions the question of market unity. That of the Catalan Group shows something similar in terms of competition regime and market unity. As far as competition is concerned, I would like to say that, as a general rule, the draft contains a common minimum standard which is fully in line with the basic rules, in accordance with Article 149.1 of the Constitution, and which updates what we already have in this area and which, as I said, is in line with Regulations 882 and 1069 and also with the Market Unity Guarantee Act. This food quality bill, referring solely and exclusively to the economic aspect and because of the economic importance of the sector, requires a rule that contributes to the basic management of controls throughout the territory. Therefore, there is no over-limitation and, as I say and reiterate, it has been repeatedly demanded by the operators and the agri-food companies of our country. With regard to market unity, also expressed by the spokespersons of the Catalan Group and the Basque Group, I reiterate what is said by the food and drink sector operators, who perceive, suffer and feel fragmentation of the market as a result of the different autonomous regulations, where they exist. We have seen that in ten of them there are no and in seven there are many dysfunctions. All this in terms of official control, processing processes and the sanctioning regime, which obliges operators to have to comply with different requirements in each territory depending on where their companies are located, which is negative for the whole Spanish agri-food sector. Freedom of establishment and freedom of movement of food goods and provision of services are essential elements for the competitive functioning of the Spanish economy within the single European market which can only be guaranteed under the principles of the Market Unity Guarantee Act. It is precisely in this law that the content of the multiple and different autonomous rules on food quality is systematized. This has been done - despite what they say - with a huge dialogue and effort, with relations with the agri-food sector, with the autonomous communities, that is, there has been a broad dialogue, a broad consensus and a broad agreement reflected in this bill. With regard to the sanctioning regime invoked by the spokesman for the Basque Group, I would like to say that this appropriate sanctioning regime has a powerful influence on equal treatment throughout the territory, so that it is not penalised differently to operators according to the territory where they are located, as is stated in Community legislation. One more point, this law updates, as the minister has said, the sanctioning regime of 1983 for ten autonomous communities. With regard to the coordination and cooperation proposed by the law and amended by the Basque Group, we believe that what is proposed is in the line of being effective against food fraud and avoiding dysfunctions as in previous years and that, as Mr Alonso has said, horsemeat does not become beef. In order to respond to these situations, stable cooperation frameworks and networks for rapid exchange of information between the Ministry and the Autonomous Communities are established. This is coordination, this is collaboration, this is solving problems. That coordinating table that was being created would solve the problems. Mr Alonso has made a very partial and tortuous reading of the report of the Council of State. [[Show document]] It has forgotten to say, when it ends in quality:... so it is going to be generalized so that all the right to food can be considered that within the notion of the basic for the purposes of Article 149.1.13.a Therefore, the right to food becomes a basic norm, as indicated by the European Union itself. Finally, I want to say something very important to the nationalist groups and the Joint Group: do not talk about victimism and competitive invasion. We are in a state of autonomy, this law fully respects all the competences of the autonomous communities, it has as its basis European legislation, it respects the autonomous communities, it has them in order to coordinate and collaborate with them. On the basis of this situation, it will develop - and is already developing - a common policy for our entire country, which is complemented by the Food Chain Improvement Act, the Cooperative Integration Act and the supraregional designations of origin Act. Therefore, absolute respect for the competition regime is not intrusive and we regret this victimism and confrontation that is intended to establish between some autonomous communities and the Ministry of Agriculture. It is not disappointing this law, it is widely known and supported by the Spanish agri-food sector, the business world, the trade union world and the cooperative world. It is precisely today that we have had a meeting with the Federation of Food and Beverage Industries and it is not that they are disappointed, that they are delighted with this law and that we address it. If you read the report of the Council of State that has been sent to us, you will see that it has been widely extended, known, amended and, in some way, ratified by the whole Spanish agri-food sector. With this we fulfil a mandate here assumed by the President of the Government for the restructuring of this sector so important that, as I said, it makes more than 100 billion euros and gives work to more than 2.5 million people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Lapazarán. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 42/2007 OF 13 DECEMBER ON NATURAL PATRIMONY AND BIODIVERSITY. [[File number 121/000145]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u37	Next item is the debate on the whole of the draft law amending Act No. 42/2007 of 13 December 2007 on natural heritage and biodiversity. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Environment, on behalf of the Government, has the floor for the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before this House to introduce the bill amending Law 42/2007 of 13 December 2007 on natural heritage and biodiversity, the main objective of which is to improve the regime for the protection, conservation and restoration of our biodiversity. This bill is in addition to other important and necessary reforms undertaken by the Government in environmental legislation since the start of the legislature and is further evidence of commitment to the environment and to the protection of biodiversity. Our main objective is to ensure that environmental standards are an effective instrument for the protection of our environment and at the same time to commit the whole of Spanish society and its social partners to their protection and improvement. In this direction, the draft law amending Act No. 42/2007 of 13 December 2007 on natural heritage and biodiversity is moving forward. In particular, this amendment of the law aims at improving the regime for the protection and conservation of Spanish biodiversity and laying the groundwork for its effective restoration where necessary. Spain has a very important natural heritage, we are a unique country in the European Union in terms of biodiversity and natural heritage. We have more than 9,000 species of plants and more than 60,000 fauna, which makes us host 40% of the species of flora and fauna present in the European Union in our territory. Spain is the only country in the European Union, together with France, with four different biogeographical regions: Alpine, Atlantic, Macaronesian and Mediterranean. The number of endemic species on the Peninsula is estimated at about 1,700 and in the Canary Islands about 500 others. We also enjoy a wide variety of habitats. Although the Spanish area accounts for around 10% of the total Community territory, of the 226 types of habitats recognised as of high interest by the European Union, 121 are in Spanish territory. This accounts for about 60% of the total number of such habitats. All this data requires a greater effort to improve and make more effective the protection of our natural heritage, an effort that I am sure all the groups in this House share. This bill builds on the experience gained by the different Spanish administrations over the seven-year period of implementation of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act 2007, as well as the exchange of ideas and experiences with the entire society involved in the management and conservation of the natural heritage. Over the past seven years, there has been a need to improve certain aspects of the application of this standard, such as the management of protected areas, by supporting activities that are consistent with their conservation. There was also a need to strengthen the protection of endangered species, which are the most vulnerable. And there was no doubt that the latest reforms of Community and international legislation, such as the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits of their use, of the Convention on Biological Diversity, needed to be incorporated into our legal system. It is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a necessary and consensus-based bill. It was therefore essential to reform existing legislation to ensure that Spain was a leading country in the protection of its natural heritage and biodiversity. This draft law amending the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act 2007 has a threefold objective: first, to improve transparency and legal certainty as regards the protection regime for protected areas and to facilitate their management; secondly, to improve the protection and conservation of endangered species, and to ensure the proper application of Community and international biodiversity law. In order to improve the transparency and legal certainty of the protected areas protection regime and to promote its management, one of the main developments incorporated in this draft law is that property and cadastre records should provide information on environmental protections affecting areas in protected areas. In this way we gain in transparency, we provide greater legal certainty to everything related to the ownership regime of the protected spaces and we guarantee better protection of these spaces. This information, which will facilitate both the Register of Property and the Catastro, will be for purely informative purposes, i.e. this bill does not create or repeal or regulate protections, but will help to improve existing protection of our heritage by facilitating its knowledge. Greater knowledge, ladies and gentlemen, facilitates better environmental protection. To achieve this goal, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment will keep the online map service up to date to identify and delineate protected space areas. In this way, the registers and the cadastre will import the data from these maps into their computer systems and will ultimately be able to improve the information provided to citizens, while at the same time providing an advertising and transparency mechanism. All of this will improve the effectiveness and enforcement of environmental protection standards and strengthen citizens' legal certainty. In order to improve the management of protected areas, the draft law includes a number of measures designed to encourage the support of public administrations for activities consistent with the conservation of protected areas. These activities, including tourism, agriculture, livestock and leisure activities, undoubtedly contribute to the well-being of local populations and to the creation of quality and environmentally friendly jobs. Priority will therefore be given to these activities, in particular those aimed at the conservation and restoration of the natural values of the place in terms of access to subsidies when provided for by the corresponding regulatory bases. Similarly, the draft law provides for the possibility of introducing bonuses in fees, registration fees or in farm social security employer quotas for all these activities. These measures aim to promote local populations living in these areas by giving them the opportunity to generate socio-economic activities, always within the framework of the principles of sustainable development. As for the second of the objectives I have pointed out to you - to improve the protection and conservation of endangered species - the draft law amending the existing law, in addition to increasing the current levels of protection of Spanish biodiversity, allows the incorporation of key aspects demanded by our society that strengthen conservation policies. The entire text of the bill has corrected issues that have proved to be inoperative in the light of the experience gained during the years of implementation of the current law, both for the administrations involved and for society. In addition, new provisions of great importance have been incorporated, such as the regulation of the first imports of non-indigenous species. In this respect, the draft law provides that the first import of potentially harmful non-indigenous species should be subject to administrative authorization after the importer has carried out a risk analysis. It also regulates the reintroduction of missing indigenous species from our country to promote their reintroduction and that it is implemented with all guarantees. Finally, in order to improve coordination between the competent administrations, the need for common methodologies for biodiversity monitoring has been included, so that decision-making is carried out with comparable and more robust knowledge bases. The third major objective of this draft regulation is to ensure the proper implementation of international and Community biodiversity legislation and, in particular, the Nagoya Protocol, the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive. The draft law regulates access to genetic resources of wild species, in accordance with the Nagoya Protocol ratified by Spain on 3 June 2014 and, although further regulatory development will be necessary, the draft requires that access to these resources, which may be used for cosmetic or pharmaceutical purposes among others, be subject to prior authorisation and that conditions for their authorisation be agreed upon. The aim is also to improve the incorporation of the Birds and Habitats Directives into our legal system by adapting the text of the Act to the provisions of those Directives. Similarly, the necessary updates are included in the implementation of the European Union biodiversity strategy up to 2020. Thus, among the principles that inform the law, are added principles born under this strategy and accepted by all the States of the European Union, such as to avoid the net loss of biodiversity and the need to restore the systems that have been degraded in the past. In this connection, the draft law also takes into consideration the main elements of the European Commission communication on green infrastructure. In this way, the project establishes the approval of a state strategy on green infrastructure and ecological connectivity and restoration. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this bill strengthens the protection of biodiversity by incorporating the latest developments into Community legislation. Finally, I believe it is important to stress that this bill also introduces a greater link between biodiversity and climate change. Thus, prevention of emerging problems as a result of climate change, mitigation and adaptation, as well as the fight against its adverse effects, are incorporated into the guiding principles of the law. Moreover, this new law will incorporate, among the duties of the public authorities, the design of adaptation and mitigation measures to minimize the risks and impacts of climate change on biodiversity and measures to ensure the persistence of species in a climate change context. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by pointing out that this bill reflects the Government's determination to improve the regime for the protection of our natural heritage and the biodiversity that our country cherishes. It is certainly a moral obligation for all Spaniards, and especially for their political representatives, to make all the necessary efforts to preserve and improve our nature and deliver it to the generations to come in better condition than we receive it. With the inspirational principles of this bill we incorporate the population living in our natural environment and encourage them to participate more actively and effectively in their management, conservation and improvement. With this modification we increase transparency and legal certainty in the protection of our natural heritage, we promote greater and better environmental information, especially regarding the properties included in protected spaces, we also deal with the conservation of our threatened species, not only by regulating the entry of those non-indigenous species that could be potentially harmful, but also by encouraging in an orderly manner the reintroduction of those that disappeared in the past. We also incorporate, through this reform, the fight against climate change in the protection of biodiversity. This promotes the assessment of climate change on biodiversity and its effects and lays the groundwork for combating it and thus contributes to minimizing the risks and impacts of climate change on our rich natural heritage. [[The lady]] Ultimately, this bill effectively guarantees the protection of our biodiversity, while contributing to improving the well-being of the rural population and providing the policy of maintaining greater transparency and legal certainty. I am fully convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill lays the groundwork for us to continue to enjoy today and tomorrow the important natural heritage and the rich biodiversity with which we have the immense fortune to rely in Spain. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u39	Thank you, Minister. We are now going to look at the amendments tabled by the various groups. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mrs Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, as much as we are committed, we are not prepared to accept laws that once again invade autonomous powers, and this is the main reason why we are presenting the amendment as a whole. In the same way, many of its laws - including this - seem to have the only objective of re-centralizing once again - already begins to be extremely tiring - powers of the autonomous communities. In fact, this law is progressing little or nothing in the protection of natural heritage and biodiversity, Minister. In any case, of course, what is done is to step back. This law therefore seems to be the corollary of a disastrous legislature for the environment, while coastal laws, mountain laws, national parks, environmental liability laws or the same law make the protection of the environment only and exclusively subject to economic interests; when I say economic interests, I speak of particular economic interests. It is precisely the collective economic interests that go hand in hand with the protection of the environment and an ecosystem that can be a source of economic and social wealth, and in particular with regard to natural heritage and, of course, also biodiversity. This law not only subordinates natural heritage and biodiversity to some economic interests, but also to military interests or, worse still, to interests determined by the Ministry of Defence with respect to the land owned by it, which, although it may be similar, is not exactly the same. Not in vain, some of these lands have no military interest, but are prebendas that the military have for their exclusive use and enjoyment. On the other hand, there are lands that can be considered as natural heritage and of interest for the conservation of biodiversity that because of their interest in military maneuvers, far from being protected, are being contaminated, such as, for example, the Royal Bardenas of Navarre. In short, that the invasion of which we spoke and which we are accustomed to, this permanent competitive invasion is not even justified, as they tried to do, from the protection of a superior good, rather on the contrary, they claim that the autonomous communities do not obstruct their neoliberal ideology, their economicist ideology and, once again, their militaristic ideology. This intrusive desire contrasts with the passivity shown at the same time in developing other areas of its competence, such as the development, for example, of the European Landscape Convention, among many others. I'm done. If anyone had doubts about the true scope of the People's Party's claim to protect natural heritage and biodiversity, we will recall that an additional provision of the law states that the measures included in this law will not be able to entail any increase in endowments, salaries or other staff costs. In short, that page 36 of the bill leaves the thirty-five pages above on wet paper, all except for the competitive recentralization. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are being brought with us a bill amending the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act as if it were, because of the explanation it has given us, essential and urgent to present a law that will update the legislation that we currently have in our country. Is the introduction of this bill timely? Not from our point of view. For a very clear reason, because the current Law 42/2007, on natural heritage and biodiversity, is a very ambitious law replacing Law 4/1989, on the conservation of natural spaces, which had already been out of date and which incorporated - I refer to the Law of 2007 - European and international requirements in the field of biodiversity into Spanish law. On the other hand, the bill you are presenting to us does not significantly or substantively alter the existing law. In fact, there are still undeveloped elements in the 2007 Act, such as the guidelines for the management of natural resources under the State Strategic Plan for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity; the approval of sectoral plans, which so far only one tourism has been approved, which in principle does not contribute anything substantial to the conservation of nature; the creation of the Spanish catalogue of habitats in danger of extinction; the proper allocation of the Fund for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity or the impetus of the Strategic Plan, focusing on the development of the highest priority actions, such as good practice guidelines and sustainable management of kinegetic and fish species, alternatives to the use of lead munitions, new technologies for the assessment, management and minimization of conflicts caused by predators or techniques to promote the adaptation of biodiversity to climate change. As you see, there is a long way to go with the existing legislation, with the current 2007 Act that you propose to amend. The bill they present is a missed opportunity to improve certain aspects, as it misses the opportunity to solve issues such as - I referred to a moment ago - lead ammunition, poisoned baits and plant protection. It is found that the use of lead ammunition poses a conservation problem. There is plumbism in waterbirds and necrophagous raptors, including species classified as endangered, such as breakers and Iberian imperial eagles, but also plumbism, lead poisoning, is a public health problem. In fact, the Spanish Food Safety and Nutrition Agency has recommended since 2012 that neither children nor pregnant women eat game meat, with a very strong report from its scientific committee. The Constitutional Court endorsed the ban on lead ammunition in wetlands and with the same arguments throughout the territory. We could also refer to the use of poisoned baits, which is currently one of the most serious threats to biodiversity. The national strategy against the illegal use of poisoned bait, which was approved in 2004 by the Ministry of the Environment in the seventeen autonomous communities, recognizes that this legal use is one of the most important obstacles to the conservation of wildlife in our country, and is still very widespread. It is a priority to expand and improve the basic legislation to be enacted by the State to allow greater possibilities for preventing and punishing such conduct. In fact, we have been aware that since 1995 some 8,000 poisoning cases have been dealt with only with 160 resolutions. Issues raised by the law. There is one that is recurrent in all the bills that the Government is introducing and that we have been discussing on the occasion of the previous point: the competitive invasion. A re-centralisation of competences is being carried out again, this time in the natural environment. It is a clear example of the policy of dripping, but often overflowing, in order to build an increasingly centralized state. They have been dedicated to replacing the competences attributed to the communities so far in the current Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity with the competences of the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities in their respective area of competence. As we discussed in the previous item on the agenda of the plenary session, the autonomous communities have exclusive competences, so it is again a twisting interpretation of article 149.1 of the Constitution. As an example, the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, in its article 144.2, indicates that the Generalitat is responsible for the exclusive competence of natural spaces, which, respecting the provisions of article 149.1 of the Constitution, includes in any case the regulation and declaration of the figures of protection, delimitation, planning and management of natural spaces and protected habitats located in Catalonia. Article 144.1 of the Statute also stipulates that the Generalitat shall have shared competence in regulating the natural resources of flora, fauna, biodiversity, the marine and aquatic environment, if they are not intended to preserve marine fisheries resources. Thus, there is no doubt that the autonomous communities are responsible for the management of the Natura 2000 network, the declaration and preservation of special conservation zones and special protection zones for birds - the ZEPA zones, for example - and the adoption of measures to ensure the conservation of wild biodiversity. Similarly, the conservation of indigenous wildlife species is guaranteed by the autonomous communities. But it is not only a matter of legally, according to the Constitution, being the competence of the autonomous communities, but of who better than these has the knowledge necessary to manage their natural spaces and for the conservation of biodiversity. With regard to the management of the marine environment, the principle of subsidiarity and the benefits of the management of the marine environment by the autonomous communities, which already hold some of the powers over the marine environment, have not been considered. It is surprising that the draft law places an emphasis on the Ministry of Defence, which so far has not been the subject of mandatory reporting, through a binding report on management plans in areas of State defence that are subject to environmental protection. Among the objectives of the Natura 2000 management plans, we do not share economic activities when they should focus primarily on the conservation of species and habitats, as set out in the directive itself. In fact, we do not understand why, instead of centralizing competences, the government is no longer demanding to comply with the European guidelines for the protection of the Natura 2000 network and, therefore, requires the autonomous communities to comply with the competences they have already assigned. Instead of doing this, which is an exercise of government, it goes as easy as possible, it takes away competences, it re-centralizes and, therefore, it sets up a new model of state organization. The draft law will also allow the exploitation of resources - we do not share it either - in natural monuments, when so far it was prohibited. I will say that it is positive to highlight the incorporation in the Property Registry and in the Catastro the information on environmental protection of properties in protected spaces. As I said, we see what is best and what is not, and there is no doubt that for this Government the environment is relegated to the private interests and economic benefits of a few. It is very clear what environmental policy the People's Party Government has followed in this direction over the past four years; an environmental policy that is representing a clear and unprecedented involution in this area. They present the private interest, that of a few, in the common good, mercantilizing nature, re-centralizing competences and reducing public participation and transparency mechanisms, from the Law on Urgent Environmental Measures, in which they eliminated the system of return, deposit and return; through the Law on Environmental Assessment, in which they created conservation banks and replaced the authorization of these Courts for the transfer of transfers or sale of intercommunal waters by a mere authorization of the Directorate-General for Water; through the Law on Coasts, which abandons the global concept of coastal protection, favoring the speculation and privatization of the hydraulic public domain; through the Law on National Parks, which pre-poses economic interests to the conservation of these spaces, up to the Law on Mountains, in which they will allow speculation in the burned land. Everything is subject to the economic interests of a few and not for the benefit of the common good. It is surprising, rather, not surprising that this Government, in presenting the bill as in all those it is doing, places it without any financial resources. As the previous spokesman has said, it is impossible to apply this law without financial resources. The Government is therefore making a toast to the sun. Fortunately there is little time left; there is no time left for you to continue making proposals to attack the environment with measures such as those I have been reading, of deregulation, of unprotected environment, of the natural environment; in short, of those natural resources which are essential for the quality of life of our citizens and of our country. That is why we are presenting the amendment as a whole, which we will reinforce with partial allegations in the handling of the law. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u43	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Moya. Ladies and gentlemen, there is with us in the official gallery a delegation of the Central American Parliament, Parlacen, headed by its President, His Excellency Mr. Armando Bardales Paz, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applauds]] We now look at the amendment to the whole Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]] Mr. Barberà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs García Tejerina, the Catalan Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to the entire bill amending Law 42/2007 on natural heritage and biodiversity. [[Convergence and Union]] We must point out that any parliamentary initiative whose theoretical objective is to improve the basic legal regime for the conservation, sustainable use, improvement and restoration of natural heritage and biodiversity has, as it cannot otherwise be, our unconditional support. If this improvement is to be carried out through a 2007 amendment to the existing law, it seems to us correct. If this change is made taking into account the experience gained during its previous implementation since 2007 and incorporating into the legal system normative developments in this area derived from the perfect international law or the law of the European Union. But, ladies and gentlemen, it should be done without forgetting the jurisdictional distribution described in the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy. Rather, to be clear, it should be carried out without any kind of competitive invasion by the State and the parliamentary group supporting the Government. It should be carried out without altering the legal framework laid down and explicit in the law which is intended to amend, normally taking advantage of an absolute majority which is altering, draft law after draft law, the existing framework of competition distribution, emptying of decision-making power to the autonomous communities and leaving them only the management that is imposed from the central State, while at the same time drowning them economically hindering that same management, with the sole pretext of imposing the People's Party project on the basis of these re-centralizing policies. It is from this precept of competitive invasion that our amendment to the whole is mainly based on. Ladies and gentlemen, article 149.1.23 (a) of the Constitution reserves for the State the basic legislation on environmental protection and on mountains, forestry and livestock. But, in turn, they correspond to the Generalitat de Catalunya, according to articles 110, 111 and 144 of l'Estatut d'Autonomie de Catalunya, exclusive competences and shared competences in natural spaces and environment respectively. The exclusive competence of Article 110 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia gives the Generalitat full legislative power, regulatory power and executive function. It is only for the Generalitat to exercise these powers and functions through which it can establish its own policies. Catalan law on the exclusive competence of the Generalitat is the law applicable in its territory with preference over any other law. In accordance with article 142.2 of the same Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, this empowerment or capacity for action is attributed to it in the field of natural spaces, respecting what the Constitution provides, but including in any case the regulation and declaration of the figures of protection, delimitation, planning and management of natural spaces and protected habitats located in Catalonia. Also the shared competence, article 111 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, assigns the Generalitat in this division between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Administration the legislative power, the regulatory power and the executive function within the framework of the bases that the State sets as principles or minimum common normative norms in norms with a rank of law, except in the cases determined according to the Constitution and the statute. Shared competence includes, in any case, the establishment and regulation of the instruments of territorial planning and the procedure for the processing and approval of these instruments; the establishment or regulation of measures of environmental sustainability and taxation; the regulation of natural resources, flora and fauna, biodiversity, the marine and aquatic environment, if not for the preservation of marine fisheries resources. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the competitive framework, which we believe is sufficiently clear. The draft law amending the 2007 Act, which the Government has referred to the General Courts, establishes and provides in certain precepts an intervention and a capacity for action by the General Administration of the State that exceeds and exceeds that provided for by the constitutional bloc. In a direct way, without any kind of modesty or justification, it imposes state interventionism on matters which until now were reserved for regulation and management by the Generalitat and the other autonomous administrations competent in the environment. The State is given powers that belong to the autonomous communities, as the 2007 Act, which is intended to amend, already established. The State now becomes a co-author of measures or actions that the 2007 Act attributed exclusively to the Autonomous Communities. I would like to give some examples of this competing invasion that we have denounced. The draft law assigns to the General Administration of the State the task of drawing up the list of places that may be declared as special conservation areas. The General Administration of the State is responsible for the declaration of special conservation areas and areas of special protection for birds. The General Administration of the State is empowered to approve plans and instruments for the management of special conservation areas. The General Administration of the State is given the competence to grant exceptional authorisations, and it also broadens, without giving concrete expression, the circumstances that may exempt prohibitions relating to the conservation of indigenous biodiversity and, therefore, may have a very negative impact on the preservation and recovery of biodiversity. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of management plans, as well as the administrative function governing these precepts, is fully within the executive function of the autonomous communities. With regard to extending the exceptions to the ban, it goes beyond the competitive invasion and already affects the achievement of the objective of preserving and recovering biodiversity and natural heritage. This standard model of draft laws of the People's Party Government is used as a tool against the current distribution of powers, as well as the regulation of various topics with a level of detail that will hardly allow the autonomous communities to exercise their powers by unreasonably exceeding themselves by being considered basic State legislation; precepts that cannot be considered basic from any rational point of view. We see again in a bill the mistrust of the State in the responsibilities deposited in the autonomous communities as an excuse to justify an unprecedented competitive invasion. Ladies and gentlemen, improving the conservation, sustainable use and restoration of natural heritage and biodiversity does not necessarily have to change the subjects of action. So far, the subject was the autonomous communities. The draft law replaces it by the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities. We cannot share and denounce this strategy that imposes on the General Administration of the State as part of the subject. To change the subjects of the actions, which according to the regulations in force correspond to the autonomous communities, is to want to change the model of State and apply through the back door a model of re-centralized State. To the different parliamentary groups in this House who agree in this argument to oppose the handling of this bill, we are united by that concept. These same groups defend our political action from different models, as the spokesman of the Socialist Party will surely demonstrate. In some aspects very distant models but that do not prevent us from agreeing to share the basic objective: to work for the conservation, sustainable use, improvement and restoration of the natural heritage and biodiversity that we all want to achieve. That is why we will abstain from the various amendments to all the other groups. For our group, a clear step backwards in the competition framework is not a policy that seeks to improve the environment. For this reason, due to the lack of adequacy and alignment with the established competition framework, as a further example of the re-centralizing practice and the lack of respect for the powers of the autonomous administrations, the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union has submitted this amendment to the entire bill for return to the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u45	Finally, by the Socialist Group, Mrs Cunillera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we are faced with the last act that your Government is going to carry out in its entire strategy of reviewing environmental legislation in Spain. And I say that it will be the last because they no longer have the law governing the environment that has not undergone its corresponding revision and always directed in the same direction, that of the search for the private benefit against the protection of the heritage of all and that of putting its wedge in everything that has to do with the competences of the autonomous communities. It is easy to remember for some of those who were here in the past legislature the jokes, the songs, the disqualifications that were made from the lordships of the People's Group with the title that the ministry that you hold today, minister. But the fact that you have given the name of the environment in the title of the ministry only proves one thing thanks to the management you have done. It comes to prove that the name doesn't do the thing. By the time this parliamentary term is over, the People's Party's move through the government will have been the most important setback that is remembered in all our years of democracy in terms of environmental protection. There is no sector that has not suffered the haze of its voraciousness: the Coast Act, the Environmental Assessment Act, the Environmental Responsibility Act, the National Parks Act, the Mounts Act, and now the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act. You have worked hard to destroy the work of the former Socialist Government. It's also true that it's nothing strange. But it must be said that they have destroyed a received inheritance that was based - it will be based again at the end of this year when the Socialist Party is re-governed - on the responsibility to manage a capital that does not belong to anyone in particular, belongs to them all, and on solidarity with the present generations that are going to suffer, already suffer, the consequences of their actions, and especially those of future generations. And if anyone had any doubts about what I just said, the data the minister has given come to endorse this thesis. Do not doubt, Minister, that you will have to rebuild all that you have destroyed. And we will. You have led us to what we should never have returned, you have brought us back to the past, governments like yours, which has been and is unable to leave the environment in better condition of how you left it generations and previous governments. There's no excuse to do it so wrong, there's no excuse. Because you cannot claim to be unaware of the needs of environmental protection in Spain, nor can you claim to be social need, nor can you even claim that no association dedicated to environmental protection has been asked to do so. Similarly, the four amendments to this law that we are debating today make it clear that you will once again be left alone in the reform of this law. No parliamentary group urged him to reform, none, not even his own, and he has recently been fond of asking the Government to put forward initiatives so that he can boast and make points. Therefore, minister, to what interests do you respond with this law. Possibly, the very ones who will have been eternally grateful after laws such as those of coasts or national parks, so as not to quote again one by one all that I have told you before that they have suffered their revisionist desire. In the full debate that we held in this House on the occasion of the presentation of the National Parks Bill, my group's environmental spokesperson, Mrs Lucio, wondered why they were bringing that law, to whom it benefited. These questions apply to each and every one of the bills that I have listed to you in this area at the outset. They remain unanswered by his Government, but we all have a clear and obvious response in which we would all agree, which is certainly not the pursuit of the general interest. I also ask you today why this law. We have asked ourselves this when we examined your reform proposal, and it is the origin of the amendment that my group is presenting to the whole of us today. You should withdraw this bill for reasons which have already been told by some of my colleagues who have spoken before, by others I will tell you, but, really, Minister, when you review your speech for the presentation of the law, you will see that your own data support that you should withdraw that reform. I have here a comparative picture that my group has made of Law 42/2007 and what its reform entails, and there is no change, nor one, that welcomes a change in philosophy in the protection of the environment. There are no changes in orientation. Therefore, from this point of view it would not really be necessary to review the law, because moreover this law will not only not solve problems that the environment has today, but will exacerbate those that we already have and will create new ones. Their law reform does have a clear purpose, which is to increase, to impose an administrative bureaucracy associated with totally unnecessary conservation, and that will also be their failure if this law continues. Because you can't legislate on your back or on the sidelines of people in the territory. This law even further away the preservation of the reality of the territory, of the landscapes, of the people, incorporates more plans, more studies, more organs. But none of these mechanisms are designed or planned for the incorporation and involvement of citizens in conservation. Therefore, the consequence will be that the management model that will emerge from this law will make it difficult for responsible use, prevention and people to go hand in hand. You also commit another blow with this reform. All the changes they introduce in Law 42/2007 generate competition confusion; it is a profuse, diffuse, bureaucratic, excessively regulatory and very poorly applied bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, Minister, you have understood nothing. When Spanish society - and I am not only referring to environmental matters - wants to look forward, you voluntarily look back, and therefore want to change this law, a basic law and whose development belongs to the autonomous communities, which have the competences in terms of natural heritage and biodiversity. You bring us here today a reform of the law full of interferences so that the State Administration acts - in quotes - in parity with the autonomous communities, that is, always with the collet 'in the competences that are within its scope', when in most of these cases they do not exist. The Member of the Union, Mr Martí Barberà, has told us that he has made the connection between all the interference in the autonomous competences. Minister, even if they're nationalists, sometimes they're right. That does not disqualify them from bringing positive things, and if we ask them to respect the Constitution, we should preach by example. Because I cannot believe that you are not aware that with these kinds of actions you introduce more noise, more indefiniteness and more conflict. This leads to the confusion of not knowing very well who has to do what, how to evaluate, who evaluates politics and situations. As I know you are not naive beings, you are not people who act without calibrating the scope of their actions, I have to think that behind these acts there is a political will. If you do not care about the consequences of these acts, of these kinds of actions, the Socialist Group does, and I must therefore say to you that, even if it is an irresponsible way of legislating, you and only you have the responsibility to make these things in Spain very difficult for us to understand. Where some of us ask you for dialogue, negotiation, pact, you impose your absolute majority. And they can win, they have the votes, but they certainly won't convince, and they don't because they're also very thin; they're very thin in a performance against a basic law. What is the point of this proposal for the reform of Law 42/2007, such a regulatory proposal? Because if what they're trying to do is get everything tied up, you have to tell them that this is not a good way to legislate. They should understand that we need simple, clear laws that lead to legislative and regulatory development where appropriate. Therefore, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, on the subject of the debate we are having at this stage, I would like to recall the phrase with which the electoral programme of the People's Party was leading the environmental issue: Ensuring the future. What happens is that one wonders, whose future? It is also true that the answer should not be sought very much because the People's Party itself responds in its programme for the European elections, in which it appears textually - and in the middle of it -: The environmental variable cannot stop economic development. Here we have the key to all these reforms that I told you at the beginning and you can clearly see who has the most secure future and who is doing better - and is going to do better - with this government's environmental policy. But what about the others? What future can the People's Party assure future generations of Spain with this policy of dismantling the environmental legislation of the socialist government? Because there is not a person in Spain who can share the popular desire to destroy the laws of coasts, environmental assessment, environmental responsibility, national parks, mountains. The People's Party government has pushed us back forty years in just three years of government. They have been quick, but at the same time disparaging with the scientific community, with citizen participation and have been deaf and blind to any parliamentary initiative of the opposition. We can therefore conclude that in this last act of overthrowing the environmental legislation inherited by this Government we are faced with one more act of securing the future of some rather than ensuring the future of all. As in the other policies of the People's Party, the environment is no exception, nor has it been in the attention it has paid to it in the General Budgets of the State. Please note, in 2012 the Government was dedicated to the protection of the natural environment 226 million euros; in 2015, 154. Exactly 31% less. That is why, Minister, you have no credibility. They have been and are bad managers of Spanish environmental policy, and they have done so because they have used their absolute majority to ensure the future of a few in the face of the obligation that we all have to leave to the generations of the future a better world than we find and, I insist, they cannot claim neither ignorance nor lack of means. You have not had the will to preserve the heritage of all, and we will all remember this next November so that you can move to the opposition and a socialist government can restore what you should never have destroyed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Cunillera. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, for the Basque Group, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I intervene to determine the position of our group. Our group has not tabled an amendment to this bill in its entirety, but we are going to support those who have tabled it because we agree at the core of the reasoning they have given, especially in the area of competition. Obviously, we are already tired of repeating the same things in all the bills that come from this ministry. Half an hour ago we have been debating another bill that we have tabled amendment to the whole and the arguments that we used are the same, are repetitive, because, after all, I repeat, the brand of the house always comes with the same stamp from this ministerial department. Therefore, we do agree with the elements that other groups have put forward and we will support their amendments as a whole. In any case, we are going to introduce partial amendments with which we are going to try, in some way, that this bill, when it comes out of Congress, will do so with much more positive elements than those with which it has entered and, above all, although we know that it is a kind of wasteful work but for that reason they have chosen us and for that reason we are, to represent those who voted for us, we are going to continue to influence those points that you forget - you forget on purpose -; all those points that are the competence of the autonomous communities and that you forget and ignore, we will always introduce them. That is why we have this block of partial amendments. I would also like to criticise another issue that I do not know if it is the competence of the Minister, but of the Ministry and the People's Group. Today we are discussing the amendment of this bill in its entirety and today the deadline for the submission of partial amendments to this bill and the previous one as well, and next week there will be a presentation and a Commission. That is, four years to legislate and in two weeks a law forward. I know that you are in a hurry to get laws out - your department has already told us that the goal was to get six or seven laws out - but have a little more respect, because I know you have an absolute majority and you can do whatever you want, but it is not normal that the day when amendments to the whole run out of time for partial amendments. I think it's disrespectful. We therefore criticise the methodology and also the contents. That is why I repeat the matter of the competitive invasion, which is not only a competitive invasion by appealing to the titles - there is even a paragraph in which Article 149.1, which is already bold, takes so many points - is when they want to amend Article 15, paragraph 2 of which provides for an application of Article 149.1.23a of the Constitution, which is not to exceed the basic, is that it is passed in a direct and unjustified way in material areas of exclusive competence of the autonomous communities such as territorial and sectoral planning. The reference you make in the amendment to that article must therefore be deleted, without any doubt, from the text of that law. There is another issue, apart from the competitive invasion, which I am not going to reiterate because other colleagues have already done so and I believe that our position on this issue, which are the natural monuments, has become clear. There is a legal indefinition that gives us much to think about, why they write so, what they want to hide or what they want to get to when in article 34 it is said that in natural monuments the exploitation of resources will be limited except when this exploitation is... Exceptions to the restriction on the exploitation of resources in natural monuments - that is what we understand - must be limited, especially when those exceptions are supported in this bill by indeterminate and very difficult legal concepts. Because what is an economic activity compatible with the minimum impact and contributing to the socio-economic well-being of the population? That has no legal subjection entity so that those who interpret it can do it in a truthful, common and sensible way. Therefore, there we will also focus so that these things should be further limited and, above all, in places such as natural monuments. They are therefore a number of specific issues. I'm not going to go any longer. We continue to think that this government's environmental policy began with that Coast Law with which we disagreed at all and continued with another series of laws. With someone else we have reached certain agreements on some issues, reluctantly, leaving us almost to the skin so that you would understand that in some matters the autonomous communities, at least that of Euskadi in our case, were competent in this matter and could do so. I know that in some areas, for example coasts and biodiversity protection, you are uniquely competent, but I believe that the autonomous communities in which these interventions are carried out will have to say something or will be able to say to them at least or will have an opinion that is based on facts and foundations because it is worked on it, as if for you in a pen to say: no, this is only from the State and therefore there is no collaboration. That is why we will support the amendments as a whole. I hope that this bill can be improved by the deadline for amendments that are due today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u49	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Lleonart.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on natural heritage and biodiversity brought to us by the People's Party Government is, in our view, clearly improved. That is why we have already announced that we will be submitting amendments to the article in order to adapt it to what experts in this field define as the real needs of heritage and biodiversity. Far from purporting to unravel here all the improvements that we consider to be due or applicable to this bill, we are going to detail some nuances to its content. To begin with, we believe that solutions should be sought for the recovery of populations of indigenous fish species and ultimately of the ecological balance of the rivers, since we believe that the regulations that the Government brings us leave the window open to exotic and invasive species, including those that are on the blacklist of the study Invasive exotic species: diagnosis and bases for prevention and management, published by the Ministry of the Environment, such as rainbow trout or hut. From the UPyD Parliamentary Group, we believe that the early warning system for possible communicable diseases in wildlife should be coordinated with the autonomous communities, so that they have wildlife recovery centres that include specialized veterinarians and a system for communicating the entry of species and causes of diseases. We also consider as a priority a greater incidence and publicity of the Spanish inventory of terrestrial species already included in Royal Decree 556/2011. Another improveable situation implies that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment should submit to the State Council for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity an annual assessment of the degree of implementation of strategic plans. Since these strategic plans are included in the law, we believe that there should be some reference to their implementation and follow-up in the draft we are discussing today. The reference in the text to the state infrastructure strategy makes a vague and worrying definition on the consideration of the means to which it affects, leaving forgotten some aspects of great relevance, such as areas of importance for the recharge of aquifers, areas at risk of flooding, spatial connectivity requirements of different fauna and plant species, remaining forests and areas of refuge of species according to climate change projections. These elements should be included and considered in the law as green spaces, as they are indispensable to ensure the flow of ecological services and territorial connectivity. Similarly, it is logical that, if we deal with habitats in danger of extinction, a time limit should be established for the development and implementation of appropriate plans to implement measures to prevent the disappearance of such habitats. If there is no time limit, many of these measures are not being implemented, as the Government has already shown with the non-law proposal that it voted in favour of the creation of a law on the protection of domestic animals. Compromising on a temporary framework guarantees mandatory application, and we believe that it is essential that this guarantee be included in the text. With regard to the amendments of the whole of the other groups on issues of competitive invasion or no need for such a project, we shall abstain. We share some of the claims that have been made but not others. We are faced with an update of the law that does not convince us. The protection of natural heritage and biodiversity should be a priority for all groups, and it does not seem so. Finally, there are many other aspects which are clearly better for us, as we said at the beginning, and which we will bring to you through amendments to the joint text. I hope that if they really care about natural heritage and biodiversity - no one would think that even this can be done ideologically - they will take them into consideration, ours and those of the rest of the groups. We warn you from here that, if you do not do so, that this legislation will not be amended with a broad consensus, with an enrichment of the text thanks to the contributions of everyone, the UPyD Parliamentary Group will not be able to vote in favour of a law with this content. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u51	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs De Lara.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to express our strongest support for the bill amending the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act, and I am doing so from a deep conviction that the measures contained in the rule we are debating today will improve the regime for the protection, conservation and restoration of our rich biodiversity and will enable the promotion of activities consistent with the conservation of our natural heritage that encourage economic activity and employment. From these considerations, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my deepest rejection of the demonstrations that have taken place in the previous rounds and of the reasons set out in the amendments as a whole. We have not been surprised by the interventions of Esquerra Republicana or Convergence and Union that, in their line, defend the rejection of the norm in the invasion of competences. False, ladies and gentlemen; under no circumstances does the rule we are debating invade any competition. The text literally includes the proposal for the drafting of the second final provision contained in the report of the Council of State, which ensures that it is fully in line with the constitutional system for the distribution of powers. Throughout the text of the draft law, the necessary provisions are included to clarify the powers of the General Administration of the State with regard to the management of the marine environment, taking into account the judicial pronouncements of the High Court on the matter and, in particular, the judgement of the Constitutional Court 87/2013 of 11 April. In short, ladies and gentlemen, no competition is invaded and you have fulfilled your role but you know that this is true. By the way, Mr Barberà, I was very surprised by your complaint that the Government is holding the Generalitat in Catalonia financially drowned when, according to my news, it has been 60 billion that you have received in a short time. With regard to the intervention of the groups of the parliamentary left, nothing new, ladies and gentlemen, free disqualifications, demagogy and sectarianism, and efforts to ensure that nothing is changed from what they approved and that it has proved insufficient and inefficient. Let me highlight a paragraph in the explanatory memorandum to the Socialist amendment. It says the socialist amendment - and I shudder -: In just three years, the decisions that the government has taken - already speaks of several things, and it goes on - have eliminated any channel of citizen participation and have been against any parliamentary initiative of the opposition parties, demonstrating with the bill this commitment. How dare you, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, speak to us about citizen participation precisely in the debate on this bill that amends the rule that you adopted in 2007, whose instruments were not developed in four years and that originated the greatest manifestation that has occurred by a legislative text and against the then minister, Mrs Cristina Narbona, promoted precisely by all the social sectors involved to whom she ignored, as farmers, owners, farmers and, in short, the whole rural world? Is that what you call socialist ladies and gentlemen, maintaining channels of citizen participation? By the way, they also talk about their parliamentary initiatives. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? Neither one environmental initiative, nor one, has brought you to this plenary throughout the legislature; nor one, ladies and gentlemen. For you, environmental policy has not existed, it has not been a priority. [[Applauds]] They have only tabled amendments in full to all the bills that we have defended here. How have we been able to oppose initiatives that have not existed in this House, ladies and gentlemen? In short, socialist ladies and gentlemen, environmental contributions, none. And the debates of all that have taken place like this morning's, have not been an exchange of ideas or proposals, but merely the reading of prefabricated arguments based on demagogy, falsehood and sectarianism. With your actions, ladies and gentlemen, you are degrading this House. You, ladies and gentlemen of the left, have tried to attribute yourself exclusively to the defence of the environment, but your proposals are old, old-fashioned, based on ultra-protectionism that identifies protection only by banning, preventing and limiting. In your efforts to show us that you are the only guarantors of the protection of our natural spaces, you have forgotten the inhabitants of these places, their traditional activities and their contribution to the economic activity of rural areas. You Socialists forget that sustainable development is necessarily based on three pillars: economic, social and environmental. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that environmental policy lessons from the Spanish left, none; none, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] They said in their speech that the bill does not significantly change the current law, and I wonder: why then your amendment to the whole? Does this perhaps answer, socialist ladies and gentlemen, to the sectarian and exclusive behaviour of the new Socialist Party led by Pedro Sánchez? Do you perhaps respond to the petty and short-term practices that we are witnessing these days, which do not respect the democratic principle of the most voted list that they have so much demanded for themselves in the Autonomous Community of Andalusia and that has launched them into a race fraught with agreements with radical extremist parties, without more objective than preventing the government of the winning candidates of the People's Party by uniting the losers on a trip to nowhere undertaken by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? I am not going to explain the novelties of the draft law that we are debating today, and the Minister of the Environment has made it abundantly and extensively, which has indicated the contributions of the text to the conservation of biodiversity and our natural heritage, but I do want to highlight three points of the rule in line with what we in the People's Parliamentary Group believe should be environmental policy. First, positive incentives are provided for the conservation and sustainable use of natural heritage and biodiversity and the promotion of fiscal measures and economic incentives for private nature conservation initiatives. Secondly, socio-economic activities consistent with the conservation of protected natural areas and the Natura 2000 Network are supported to contribute to the well-being of local populations and to job creation in the rural world. And thirdly, measures to prevent, mitigate and adapt to climate change are incorporated for the first time to minimize risks and impacts on biodiversity, something never contemplated in any bill submitted to this House by the former socialist government. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is in line with the environmental policy initiated by the Government of the People's Party three and a half years ago, a policy that has enabled us to promote administrative simplification and efficient management of resources; to adopt balanced and solidarity-based hydrological planning that ensures the supply and quality of water; to reconcile coastal protection with the promotion of employment-generating economic activity and legal security for those affected; to improve the protection of the marine environment, our natural heritage and biodiversity; to contribute to preventing the generation of waste and promoting its reuse; to expand the network of Spanish National Parks, to increase the cohesion of the network and to promote socio-economic activation in the municipalities of the environment; to improve the quality of the air through the PIMA plans among others; to fight climate change effectively and to bet in a decisive manner towards sustainable forest management. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party's environmental policy has a clear objective: to move towards an effective partnership between environmental protection and growth as part of economic recovery and as a way to achieve a sustainable and sustainable development model. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary left and as an environmental spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, I would like to reiterate to you what I have already indicated to you before: on environmental matters, no lessons! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u53	Thank you, Mrs. De Lara. - PROPOSAL OF AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/1979 OF 3 OCTOBER, OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL COURT. [[File number 122/00140]] - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDMENT OF ORGANIC LAW 2/1979 OF 3 OCTOBER, OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL COURT, FOR THE RECOVERY OF THE PREVIOUS INSTITUTIONAL RECOVERY OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ON AUTONOMY STATUS OR THEIR AMENDMENT. [[File number 122/00141]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u54	We move on to the full debate on the proposed organic law for the reform of Organic Law 1/1979 of 3 October, of the Constitutional Court and the proposed organic law for the amendment of Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October, of the Constitutional Court, for the recovery of the previous remedy of unconstitutionality for the draft organic statute of autonomy or its amendment, which will be discussed cumulatively as agreed in the Board of Spokespersons. Four amendments to the entire alternative text have been submitted to this bill. Firstly, the Members of the Joint Group will speak, both those who have amendments and those who are going to establish a position. Firstly, Mrs Jordà, to defend your amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u55	Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party and also of the Socialist Group, today we are debating something of the past. You arrive late and above all you are comforted to believe that, if you have taken action in time, avoiding the interruption of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia of 2006, the process towards independence that is being lived in Catalonia would not be taking place at this time. They deceive themselves, they deceive themselves if they believe that with the previous resort of unconstitutionality something would have changed in Catalonia. The problem is not whether the remedy is before or after, but that ultimately exists. The problem you have is that you have not yet understood that the citizens of Catalonia have the right to decide. Ladies and gentlemen, what is currently being experienced in Catalonia is democracy and no court, however constitutional, has the right to interfere beforehand or afterwards. Go ahead, we are not against the previous remedies of unconstitutionality, they do not provoke us any revulsion. It is a common measure in many countries, even in Catalonia we have the previous recourse to the Council of State Guarantees. You can incorporate it again, we won't reproach it; yes, leave Catalonia out. The Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy until we decide to approve the constitution of the Catalan Republic should not be subject to any unconstitutionality. Only the citizens of Catalonia in referendum must decide what relationship they want to have with the Spanish State. This referendum legitimizes the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy. In other words, a politicized and partisan Constitutional Court, whose members have been appointed by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, has no legitimacy to decide what can be consulted in Catalonia, and a previous appeal obviously does not legitimize it. Do you want to reform the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court? Let's reform it. We have tabled an amendment with an alternative text which contains some of the aspects that should be reformed: firstly, respect for the sovereignty of Catalonia which resides in the Catalan people. This is very important. The autonomy statutes adopted by the procedure provided for in Article 151 - we are obviously talking about Catalonia, the Basque Country and Galicia - should not be subject to a declaration of unconstitutionality. I'm connected to what I was telling you at the beginning of my speech. With the previous remedy of unconstitutionality nothing would have changed in Catalonia, but if they had respected the will of the people of Catalonia, if they had respected the Statute of 2006 and had not resorted to it, perhaps the situation in which we find ourselves would not have occurred. We are talking about legitimacy, sovereignty, respect for the will of a people, respect for the will of the Catalan people. Secondly, the Constitutional Court is absolutely delegitimized to clarify any case relating to Catalonia. We find ourselves before a high court that acts more like a second chamber in Catalonia than as a true referee, and this because it lacks the least neutrality in its composition, but also in the mechanisms. We propose that they remedy it. The Spanish Government, you, practices a systematic boycott of the legislative capacity of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the one hand by permanently subtracting its powers - this Parliament adopts on a daily basis laws that invade the competences of the Generalitat of Catalonia - and on the other by systematically resorting to any law that has been approved by it. Dozens of laws, dozens, are suspended cautiously while awaiting the approval of their sacrosanct Constitutional Court. Well, it's very simple. If the Spanish Government has the capacity to suspend any law while resolving the Constitutional Court, that capacity must also be in the hands of the Catalan Executive. The Government of the Generalitat should also be able to demand the immediate suspension of any law that is appealed for a competitive invasion while the Constitutional Court is clarified whether or not such an invasion exists. Who knows, maybe that way the judges would not take six years to resolve the appeals. The composition of the Constitutional Court is also far from becoming a true arbitrator. A very small first step would be for all its members to be appointed not by the central state - we should say by the centralist state - but for Catalonia, the Basque Country and Galicia to be able to appoint one of its members. That is why we want the judges proposed by the Senate to be elected from among those presented by the parliaments of the autonomous communities whose autonomy statutes were approved by the procedure provided for in article 151 of the Constitution. Certainly, this measure does not solve the problem, but they would at least manage to conceal it minimally. Finally - I finish - another of the measures we propose to you is that you cannot preside over the Constitutional Court a militant with a card - you should be ashamed - of the People's Party. Current legislation no longer permits this, but, of course, we find ourselves under an obligation to specify it. Judges of the Constitutional Court may not belong to political parties. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no shame, you have no shame. Francisco Pérez de los Cobos, a conservative activist with a card, presides over the Constitutional Court, and then - I conclude - you will give us lessons in democracy and respect for the Constitution. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. A previous question, because I refer to the words of the previous spokesperson in Agriculture, María Teresa de Lara. As she has done, I imagine the Madam President will also give me permission. Year 1991, Valencia, PSOE, thirteen councillors; Rita Barberá nine councillors; Unión Valenciana, eight councillors; Mayor Rita Barberá, Pact PP-Unión Valenciana. [[PP]] Do not teach us lessons of democratic legitimacy or more voted lists. I'm moving to self-government bylaws. In the transition to the Valencians we were deprived of access to our autonomy by the fast track, by that of article 151, as happened in Catalonia, the Basque Country, Galicia and Andalusia, despite - I refer to an illustrious Valencian deputy, from Sweden - that at that time a Member of the UCD, Francesc de Paula Burguera, presented an amendment to the Constitution so that the territories that we had lost our lands, by the right of conquest, could access by that way. We were denied access by this route; we were the only autonomous community with its own language that did not do so, thanks to that constitutional pact, to those parents. The Valencian people have therefore not been able to vote on their status or reform. Focusing on today's issue, we agree with the amendments that are being tabled, but with some more than with others. In particular, we are more in agreement with those presented by the Plural Left and the Basque Nationalist Party when they say that the statutes of autonomy are excluded from the appeal and from the question of unconstitutionality, that is to say, all the statutes of autonomy; instead, I like much less the amendments of Convergence i Unió and Esquerra Republicana because they only refer to the statutes that could be voted on or that acceded through article 151. I, as a Valencian, would have wanted to access that route; I, as a Valencian, would have wanted to vote on my status as well. We cannot therefore fully agree with these amendments because we do not accept any exclusions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u58	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Larreina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Almost one hundred and thirty-nine years ago, in this very rostrum, the last Basque Member who intervened in defence of the courts began his intervention by saying: Orphans, alone, helpless, we have devoured in bitter and painful silence, for reasons easy to understand, all the indications that in relation to our provinces and their venerable freedoms have been made, protesting only against those - in the respectful way that the House has always witnessed - that the decorum, the name and the dignity of our country have demanded. We could start that way too, and we've actually started. The deputies of Amaiur have often felt orphaned, alone and helpless, and we have also responded politely in defence of our country's freedoms. I bring this to the fore with regard to these two amendments to the Constitutional Court Act which are presented to show that in the end the solution is not that. I repeat, we are faced with a problem that has been raised in this rostrum for almost two hundred years. The problem is not to amend a law so that the Constitutional Court can intervene before or after the adoption of a statute of autonomy, but rather that in this House and in the Spanish mindsets of the last two hundred years something elementary, democratic sense has not been admitted, which is the recognition of the original sovereignty of the nations without State that make up the Spanish State right now. This is not a point of a historical moment, and it cannot be said in the case of our country that it could be an obsession or a stubbornness of the lehendakari Aguirre, the lehendakari Garaikoetxea and the lehendakari Ibarretxe - or of other presidents in other countries or of other political parties -; no, it is a matter of substance. It is a question that differentiated societies with their own national identity have been raising in this rostrum for two hundred years. Their reaction is to amend a law to erode that popular will, because they lack that democratic sense they have in other States; we could set the example of Canada with Quebec, United Kingdom with Scotland, Belgium with Flanders. However, you are going in the totally opposite direction, denying the right to decide of societies that are proposing their claim - I insist - for two hundred years on a continuous basis. You continue to deny the problem, with which you will not find the solution, which is not to amend the Law of the Constitutional Court, inter alia because that Court will never be a neutral body when we are talking about a sovereignty conflict. In this rostrum on other occasions I have also put before you this key question: Would you place the question of Gibraltar's sovereignty in the hands of the courts of your British majesty - which are legitimate, fully democratic courts? Of course you'll say no, that never, because it's not neutral. That is the question that is now being clarified here when it comes to raising the right to decide in Catalonia, in Euskal Herria, in Galicia; because you do not admit that sovereignty, and precisely your courts are not neutral. That is the element we want to put forward from Amaiur with total clarity. The solution to the problem comes from the recognition of the right to decide, in our case of Basque society, of Euskal Herria's society, without any kind of footstep, except democracy, freedom, peace; to be able to decide each of the citizens what they want for their country. This is the fundamental element, you will be able to continue pedaling on this issue, but you will never be able to solve the underlying problem. The fundamental political problem of the historic settlement between Euskal Herria and the State is through dialogue, negotiation and recognition of the right to decide on Basque citizenship. That is the fundamental element; it is being raised throughout history and also this Sunday along and wide Euskal Herria at the hand of Gure Esku Dago, who is precisely going to continue to claim the same thing as for two hundred years in this rostrum, the right of Basque society to decide its own future without any kind of clippings. You, however, are going to follow in that spirit of the 98th Generation of a failed national project to which you cannot respond; you continue to deny reality, even continue to get involved many times in the Spanish flag causing these sovereignist debates, criminalizing the sovereignists to also hide their responsibility in the daily problems of Spanish society. I believe that Spanish citizenship - and I am ending this, Madam President - is much more concerned about unemployment, poverty, social injustice and inequality than about those debates that you sometimes raise in national terms, which hide your irresponsibility in solving the other problems. Look at you, we here - I come back to the beginning of my speech, closing also with the sentence given by that Member, Mateo Benigno de Moraza, in a Chamber that was curiously chaired by José Posada, because I think it is a good phrase to end my speech by claiming the right of sovereignty of my country - the deputies of Amaiur, we have been saying something very clear and that we have repeated many times, that we have not come here to make politics in the wrong sense of the word, but simply to defend the institutions of our country, the freedoms of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u60	Thank you, Mr. Larreina. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u61	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. The People's Group and the Socialist Group - I see this as a mere process because there are not many people on its benches, but it is a crucial issue for us - justify this step of resuscitating the previous remedy of unconstitutionality to deal with an apparent contradiction, which could be given between a text that has been incorporated into the legal system, even endorsed by the citizenry and of course discussed and agreed by the political forces themselves and by this House, and the possible resolution contrary to the constitutionality of some rules according to the Constitutional Court. From our point of view, thinking that can happen in this way means that you have already taken a step by undermining the foundations of the State that had originally been built with the model of Title VIII of the Constitution. I'll explain myself. The Constitutional Court - then I will refer to this because the ruling on Catalonia takes a very dangerous step - has always been saying that the statutes of autonomy have three fundamental characteristics. The first is the necessary confluence of different wills, therefore of the popular representation of different parliaments; it is an agreement between all the citizens of the State and the society to which this status of autonomy will affect. The second is that these rules are directly ordered to the Spanish Constitution; that is, that confluence of wills is in some way part of the interpretation of the constituent will, so that they are integrated, within the parameter of appreciation of the Constitution and of laws, provisions or acts with force of law, forming part of what has been called by the court itself as a block of constitutionality. This does not happen with other organic laws. It happens with the statutes of autonomy precisely because they have this characteristic. The rigidity of the statutes is given precisely by this, because it is not a rule that can be changed, as an organic law, with a simple absolute majority, but its interpretation, its complementarity with the Constitution makes these rules have to have special majorities to be reformed, even in many cases, as happens in some autonomous statutes, those of the way of article 151, with referendum included, therefore with agreement of the citizenry. In this way they are configured as the basic standard of the model in each autonomous community. This model - it reinforces the position of the two majority groups of the House - has come down. To begin with, where is the Spanish Constitution saying that there must be a previous remedy of unconstitutionality? It's not said anywhere. Of course the constituent was not thinking about that, it appears later in the organic law. Moreover, it is not even said that there must be remedies against the statutes of autonomy, because article 161.1 (a) speaks of laws and normative provisions with force of law. When this title of the Constitution concerning the Constitutional Court is made, no one is thinking that the statutes of autonomy will be appealed. Moreover, the first wave of autonomy statutes do not receive any recourse. In that first period the Constitutional Court does not go into saying what is good or not good in the statutes of autonomy, but is dedicated to interpreting how what is said in them fits within the Constitution, therefore, what nuances take a certain article of the Constitution; it makes an overall interpretation. In the judgement on the Statute of Catalonia, the Constitutional Court took a step that had not been dared until then, giving a real constitutional coup d'état. The court itself gives a constitutional coup d'état to the will of the legislator; from there it says: in any product of the Courts, unless they are constituent, the Constitutional Court may enter. In fact, the Constitutional Court itself has ended up becoming a constituent, and this is undemocratic. That a group of twelve people, also partially elected, for whom many citizens do not feel represented and who are questioned in their composition but also in their resolutions, should again and again become the true constituent above this House is unacceptable, and the two major parties should not assume it. The CT cannot be above popular representation, especially when it comes to articulating new political agreements. If political majorities in this House and in some autonomous communities come to political agreements understanding that this enters into the Constitution, giving it a new interpretation if it can, who is the Constitutional Court to say that this is not because they interpret it differently? The political will will always have to be above that of twelve judges who are not also of the judiciary but of a special jurisdiction. All this has been taken care of, and you now, with this resource recovery, are helping to deepen it further. The step they're going to take today is to touch the basics of the system. It is not a mere technical change, it is a mere technical question that serves to improve the parameters of constitutionality; no, no, no. This is a matter of substance that concerns policy of substance; it is a fundamental question of the system itself, it touches the foundations of the system. They say they do so to ensure the constitutionality of the laws. If they did so to ensure the constitutionality of the statutes, they should recover it in its entirety, also against organic laws; allow autonomous parliaments or autonomous governments to resort to the court even by paralysing such laws before they enter into force. If it is legal certainty that we are seeking, let us enter, but let us enter into everything; because through these organic laws the political pacts that had been reached in the statutes of autonomy have been being amended over and over again. They've been emptied of content. If we want to establish the constitutional and power-sharing structure of the State, we also want to allow the autonomous communities to resort to organic laws before and by paralysing them. Not that, that. You already assume that the model - the one thought the constituents and the people who were discussing Title VIII and who were negotiating - is already done. From this House and from the Government, where necessary, through the Constitutional Court, which is under control, you can do what you want. I'm sorry, but I'm standing on the wall. No, no. We're going to have a lot of trouble with this way of acting. The Constitutional Court has become a third chamber and you will further underline the characteristic of that third chamber, which also has no credibility. Besides, the legitimate ones to bring matters there are you, the two great parties in this House because you have a sufficient number of votes to file the appeal; the others, none. If that were not enough, in case we have left ourselves with something in the tinker, we will maintain - there is nothing else to see that makes it very clear from the proposal of the People's Group - that a posteriori there can also be an appeal of constitutionality against the same rule that has already been tried by the Court. Not one, but two resources. Where, according to the President of the Government, is Europe's most decentralized state? Don't make me laugh, please! The most decentralized state in Europe? Where have you taken all that artifice from the letter of the Constitution? From that lyrics to the music they are playing right now there is a huge difference, and this legislature has been a real disaster in that sense. Do not help the Group of the European People's Party in this respect, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. They said they did not submit this previous remedy of unconstitutionality in 2006, in 2010, in 2011. They are now talking about reaching agreements, rebuilding the state, dialogue, seeking a solution to Catalonia, seeking a solution to Euskadi. Do you think that by pushing this bill you're going to go that way? They're doing absolutely the opposite. They're breaking bridges. It's a real waste of time. I can expect it from the People's Group, but I am absolutely surprised by the Socialist Group. Moreover, having already brushed the Catalan Statute, who does it now touch? They thought: we are going to run, because it seemed that I was sleeping the dream of the righteous in this House. As the legislature ends, we are going to run and put it into effect, because you are going to know how the next House will come out; a House, as I would say this week as active and passive the People's Party, full of dangerous radicals, which are also supported by other political groups. Let's make sure this autonomy thing doesn't get away. Who are you thinking about? Who's next? The Basque case - the paper that is studying it is already in the Basque Parliament - will be the next one to arrive. Are you making it difficult for a plural agreement to be reached in the Basque Parliament so that it cannot then be implemented here? I think it's a real irresponsibility. I insist, the principles on which it was believed when Title VIII was being discussed and when the content of the statutes of autonomy was being debated have been absolutely broken. The statutes of autonomy are no longer to be changed through a strengthened majority and even through a referendum, but are changed through laws, sometimes organic and sometimes without being organic, and this session has been an example of this within the agenda we have discussed. Competence has been reduced. In the Basque case, the content of the first additional provision which has specific references in chapters such as public order and citizen security, such as education, etc., has been absolutely unknown. Of course, this movement by the People's Party and the Socialist Party does not invite us to be optimistic about the will to seek new agreements, new formulas that can give stability to the structure of the State. [[Rumors]] I invite you not to continue with this genuine misconception and to change your attitude, because if you do not look for a meeting point - and believe me that there is a will to try to achieve it - it will be absolutely impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u62	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. [[Rumors]] Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as if it were a Guadian, this proposal for a law is re-emerging again. Sixteen months have passed since Congress agreed to its consideration, sixteen months in which its leaders have kept this initiative in lethargy to now recover it. The first thing we have to ask ourselves is why this has happened. Why have they left the process of this initiative to stand still for sixteen months and why are they reactivating it now? With regard to the People's Party, I think I am clear: because the People's Party did not want it to be used, for example, to challenge Castile-La Mancha's Statute of Autonomy, that election bust with an appearance of legality. By the way, I hope that some of you will share with me the feeling of deep pleasure that I had on the night of 24 May, seeing how Mrs. Cospedal was trapped in her own trap, in the trap of an electoral regime that had made her fit to perpetuate herself in her Government. And above that comes the People's Party, a party that approves electoral regimes by reforming statutes that exclude other political formations, that can even get 12% of the vote, and we are allowed to teach democracy lessons about post-electoral pacts. Better prudence on those issues. I can understand that, but I don't understand how others have acted. Why are you presenting him now? The thing is very clear: they present it now because elections are coming, and therefore the People's Party needs once again to pull out of the unity of Spain so that citizens do not think about the profound economic and social disaster that has caused their policies. So far well, but why does the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party present us with this bill at this time? Because it coincides, that's all? I'm afraid it's because you feel the scenic panic of being overwhelmed in the patriotic defense of the unity of Spain, and so you're never an alternative, because when it's the others who fix the playing field you always win. In any case, our group has tabled this amendment as a whole, being aware that we are facing a problematic reality, and has analysed the whole doctrine. We have in conflict a legal analysis of constitutionality with another that is what the constitutionalists call the democratic objection that supposes a court to decide after having expressed the sovereignty of a certain people. We are faced with a situation that is not easy, but what certainly cannot be done is what is presented to us today. What has happened in any case is that the already very unstable scaffolding that had Title VIII of the Constitution and the intervention of the Constitutional Court itself has collapsed. Until a certain moment this situation of unstable balance remained, and that was broken by the spurious and shameful action of the People's Party in the face of Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy. That's why it's not just a matter of law. There is no law in the world that can solve the behavior that the People's Party generally adopts in institutions. We saw it when it used and abused in the 1980s the previous remedy of unconstitutionality to paralyze organic laws that had been passed in this House. The fraud of the law, the abuse of power seems to be inscribed in the genome, at the time of the People's Alliance and now inherited by the People's Party. I do not say this, remember that Mr Alonso, then spokesman for the People's Group, acknowledged the abuse of the previous remedy of unconstitutionality that had been made during that time. He recognized it and made an act of contrition, of course; but it happens to the People's Party as to the Catholic Church, which ends up recognizing its mistakes almost always five hundred years later, to continue committing them, for example with the appeal against the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Then there was a perverse situation that has destroyed the complex balance of powers of a structure such as the Spanish State that has a lot of complexity. A constitutional consensus was broken and the President of the Constitutional Court, Pedro Cruz Villalón, explained it very well. Listen to your words written in a 2011 text: In the tradition of our Constitution, our constitutional culture is rooted in the idea that the statutes are respected, that is, interpreted by one or the other, but not declared unconstitutional. To the extent that they are part of the bloc of constitutionality they have been respected. Well, that's what the People's Party blew up at the time of filing its appeal against Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy. It also allowed a perverse reality to be established by which a court of twelve members, strongly politicized - and which has certainly lost all the authority that had been built very legitimately with the performance of the twenty or twenty-five years - placed us in this situation. This has a difficult solution, because it resulted in the Constitutional Court declaring it unconstitutional, following an appeal that raised an amendment to the totality of one hundred and thirty-six contested articles, after having expressed the sovereignty of the citizens of Catalonia through the Parliament of Catalonia and the sovereignty of the Spanish people through the General Courts, and after a referendum in Catalonia. That is where the democratic objection appears. Once that is done, it is not possible to give twelve persons, however elected they may be, the function of overcoming that exercise of sovereignty expressed in their respective chambers. That is why it is not just a question of legislation; it is also a question of the political will and design of this State. Let me therefore tell you that the solution proposed to us by the People's Group and the Socialist Group is a false solution, because it keeps the Constitutional Court as a third Chamber. They call it a prior remedy, but it is not a prerequisite because the Constitutional Court will intervene after the autonomy statute has been approved by the Parliament of the Autonomous Community, and after what the General Courts have approved. When the two sovereigntys are pronounced, a third that replaces them is the Constitutional Court. Why? Because some also know that - as the PNV spokesman has said - it is not a particularly neutral body on these issues. Why? Because when we are talking about power and political sovereignty, the ideology and the concept of the State influence all over the world, also, of course, the judges of the Constitutional Court who have their idea of the greater or lesser decentralization of the State. They are deciding not legally, but politically how they want Spain to be. But that is not for the Constitutional Court! It is up to those who hold such sovereignty that they also agree to it. That is why we oppose that approach. From that perspective, it is only possible to get out of this mess if we once and for all discuss exactly what the autonomy statutes are. They are not just organic laws - they are formally -; they are the expression of political pacts between autonomous communities and the Spanish State. They are an expression of a pact of sovereignty - I know they do not like that expression -; limited and complementary sovereignty, the sovereignty of the twenty-first century. They are the expression of a State that has a composite structure, they form part of the constitutional bloc, and in the same way that the Constitution does not have to pass through the Constitutional Court, that which has been established and incardinated in the constitutional bloc, the fruit of sovereignty, should not be subject to the control of the Constitutional Court either. There are other possibilities. For example, if it is to be strengthened that certain majorities do not impose certain autonomous statutes on society as a whole, we can analyse how these qualified majorities are strengthened, putting them at the same level, for example, as required by the Constitution for its reform. We can talk about that. We can also establish how the experience of what is done with international treaties, which are subject to a prior advisory opinion before being ratified by the Congress of Deputies, is situated. We could establish those issues, but never after the parliament of an autonomous community and the General Courts had been pronounced, because then we legitimized a third chamber which was given a sovereignty that did not hold, because they had not been elected for that function, which was legal and not political. From that point of view, we are clearly faced with the consequences of a bad constitutional design, but also of an abuse of that constitutional framework by the People's Party. I must admit that the situation is not easy, it has not been resolved by the constitutional doctrine, and it has not done so because it is not possible to establish elements of comparison with other countries when they have structures of competition regimes and completely different distribution of power. There are countries in which the Constitutional Court intervenes, but it does so because the statutes of autonomy or the federal laws only approve them within that autonomous community or that Land, but not in those where there is a confederality pact. I insist that the solution is not easy. We believe that our proposal is the one that has the least contraindicated effects, restricting and preventing constitutionality control by the Constitutional Court when it comes to autonomous statutes. Eye, that I know that this can be manipulated, we are not suggesting that there is a part of the legal system that falls outside the control of constitutionality, no. We are proposing that what remains outside the scope of constitutionality control ab initio are the statutes of autonomy. It could perfectly be done, as suggested in some area of the doctrine, that once the statute of autonomy had been adopted that would not prevent the Constitutional and ordinary courts themselves from raising problems in relation to the legal and political acts that developed that statute of autonomy. We are therefore not proposing that the statutes of self-government remain outside the control of the rule of law, but rather that they be placed on their proper footing and in a position not to replace popular sovereignty. I therefore ask you to reconsider this matter. It is certainly the same thing that you do when, in paragraph 8 of your single article, you say that even after the Constitutional Court has handed down its ruling on constitutionality or not, the Constitutional Court may also intervene on this matter; that is, it is not even an object of judgment, but it is still open. So let's channel him down that path. Unfortunately, we are facing a frankly complicated problem, because I insist that it does not go to law, it also goes to political conception, what the Spanish state wants to be. I finish my speech with a reflection. If you look at it, this discussion today is quite uchronistic. It's ukronic in a two-way way. The Government of the nation should have already brought here a proposal to reform the Constitutional Court Act to, for example, put an end to the shame that the President of the Constitutional Court is managing the political agenda of the Constitutional Court as if it were his contact agenda, to free will, leaving, for example, ten years of competition between autonomous communities and the State and then issuing some sentences in six months - that is what we are seeing - or leaving the remedy of unconstitutionality in relation to the current and existing Abortion Act dead. The President of the Constitutional Court, whoever he is, cannot be allowed to make the Constitutional Court his coat and his skirt. That would be the subject of a treatment that we would support. There is another element of ucrony in this debate. We are having a discussion that we should have had in this country at the end of the 20th century, before there was a deep crisis of legitimacy of the autonomous state. Its proposals for a law, that of the People's Party and that of the Socialist Party, seek to solve a problem that arose in 1985 and that reality today has gone beyond, because today the debate is no longer how the constitutionality of the statutes of autonomy is controlled. Today the debate is how a real constituent process is faced, which is so annoying to some. The pact of 78 has been broken, which I believe has brought many positive things, but things wear off like materials, political materials also wear off, and we must try to rebuild them. How and how? For example, by strengthening the formulas of participatory democracy, so that it is not just a delegated democracy, not by confronting representation with participation. For example, already assuming the shared sovereignty of the twenty-first century. Of course, a constituent process that recognizes the right of citizens to decide how they want to organize their nation, those nations that exist today in the Spanish State and that you refuse to recognize. All this should be part of that constituent process, because citizens cannot be prevented in democratic terms from choosing what they want their future to be, a future that some in Catalonia want to share with the rest of the nations of the Spanish State, and others draw from a process of independence or confederation, but that all - or the vast majority - we conceive of as a future in which we can decide democratically in a referendum how we want to live, how we want to organize ourselves. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, that history is full of moments, of demands that did not fit in with the legality of that moment. [[The Lord]] The right of trade union membership, collective bargaining and strike of workers was not only prohibited, but sentenced to long prison terms in this country, as in others. The right to universal suffrage, the right to vote of women, was not recognized for a long time and seemed absolutely normal. It was and continues to be social mobilizations that legalized and even turned constitutional rights into realities that before that popular mobilization were prohibited and in some cases persecuted criminally. Well, history is repeated in the case of Catalonia, it can be repeated in the case of Euskadi and in the whole Spanish State. Catalonia is a very plural society, with very diverse views on how to build the future of the 21st century, but there is one thing that the vast majority of Catalan society defends: the democratic right to be able to decide how we want to organize ourselves as a nation, or if you want us as a national community that we are, is the same. Each is what it is, not the name that others want to put on what it is. In the face of this indisputable reality there are two possibilities for the political forces of this country: to give democratic ground to that right, which if not history will find it, or to lift dykes to prevent it. The Plural Left made a clear statement on 8 April 2014 in favour of the right to decide for reasons of deep democratic radicality. Instead, you, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, did the opposite. They think that they can stop the waters that come down from the mountains, think that they can put doors to the countryside, and they also continue to be entertained in marking each other to prevent anyone from moving. I hope that soon with its vote citizens will open the door to the democratic exercise of the right to decide, that they will do so in the framework of a constituent process that Spanish society needs and deserves. Then today's debate will be frankly an outdated debate, because we will have addressed the debate of truth: how, through a constituent process, the pact that was made in 1978 is reconstructed and that today is absolutely exhausted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Surroca. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Parliament's Group on Convergence has tabled amendments to the whole, with alternative text, to the proposals of the People's Group and the Socialist Group to reinstate the previous unconstitutionality remedy for cases of new autonomy statutes or their reforms because our parliamentary group is opposed to them. Why? Why have we tabled these amendments in their entirety? Because we understand that this attempt, this recovery of the previous remedy will solve absolutely nothing, but quite the contrary. They are committed to judicializing issues that are eminently political. We have tabled these amendments because the legislative initiatives of the Socialist Group and the People's Group persist in perpetuating this conflict of legitimacy that occurs between the will of the citizens, expressed through the ballot box, especially in those statutes that are endorsed, and on the other hand a judicial decision. As you are well aware of the statutes that are adopted by virtue of article 151 of the Constitution, by their very nature, as is the case with the Statute of Catalonia, they specify for their approval the holding of a referendum. As they also know these statutes, after being endorsed, they have gone through parliamentary procedures, and hence as their special nature said. Therefore, subjecting them to a prior constitutional check, while also maintaining the possibility of a subsequent unconstitutionality remedy, does not resolve the conflict of legitimacy to which I referred at the beginning of my intervention. The spokesman for La Izquierda Plural, Mr Coscubiela, has also explained this very well. He said that we are not talking about leaving the statutes of autonomy outside any control of legality, no, we are not talking about that, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a conflict of legitimacy. I am not referring to anything theoretical, we can give a concrete example, which we have already mentioned in previous speeches: the ruling of the Constitutional Court against the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which cut it off mercilessly, is the clear example of this conflict of legitimacy; on the one hand, the will of a people, and on the other, a judicial decision. Now we suffer the consequences of all this. Judging the statutes endorsed by a sovereign people is a grave, most serious error, and turning the Constitutional Court into a third Chamber is a grave, most serious error. The declaration of unconstitutionality of a law is never innocuous, obviously has its consequences and makes sense that there is such a declaration of unconstitutionality in certain cases. We do not deny that; now there are other assumptions: for example, when it comes to a statute of autonomy, the basic institutional norm of an autonomous community, we would have to look at it with other criteria. And this traumatic effect is particularly relevant when it comes to a statute that has been endorsed, I insist, when the sovereign people have participated actively and directly in the legislative process with their vote. Can a court directly annul that will? We insist, can the will of a sovereign people be nullified? Other spokespersons have also referred to this because we are also talking about a court that is deeply questioned. We believe that this is absolutely unacceptable and that is where the conflict of legitimacy takes place. The presentation by the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group of these proposals implies recognition, indeed recognition that the current model does not work, that this model has failed. We fully agree and welcome their recognition, but the solution they propose does not solve anything, it will not solve the evils of the present system. This is an initiative that comes late and goes wrong, because it does not prevent a status that is subject to a prior remedy of unconstitutionality from being subsequently subject to a remedy of unconstitutionality; in the end, double control, the previous and the subsequent is maintained, and therefore the conflict of legitimacy persists twice, that is, we are aggravating the situation. The position of Convergence i Unió is also consistent with the essence of what the statutes of autonomy represent for us, especially - I would like to insist on this - those that are approved under Article 151 of the Constitution. Today again, some of the statements that we already recall in other debates are fully in force. I think it is important to recall the words that were spoken in this House during the parliamentary process of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court in 1979, and some of those words went ahead in time. Thus the rapporteur, Mr Miquel Roca, in order to reinforce his position against this previous appeal, said: It turns the Constitutional Court into a third instance - today we have heard it again here - and turning the court into a third instance is a serious mistake. And he goes on to say: We are accepting that the judges of the court make relevant decisions politically; ultimately decisions that are political and that by definition should not correspond to that court. Lucid words that advanced in years to what happened later. We are talking about an imprudent and improper judicialisation of Parliament, the legislative process. It is also important - already said by the spokesman Don Aitor Esteban - to recall article 161 of the Constitution, that when referring to the powers of the Constitutional Court, and in particular to the application of unconstitutionality, it only speaks of laws and normative provisions with force of law, does not contain the statutes, nor does it speak of the previous question. It is a figure not expressly reflected in the Spanish Constitution, and in our view introducing it again further distorts the current model, which has been shown to be a failed model. Introducing the previous control and maintaining the subsequent one is a very serious mistake, it is a double veto - a double constitutional veto - but ultimately it is a veto to the will expressed in the ballot box on those statutes that are endorsed. The only thing that could justify introducing such an exceptional mechanism or instrument - and so some eminent constitutionalist has been pronounced - would be to exclude its possible declaration of subsequent unconstitutionality, but in this case we are not talking about that, because the reform that they are proposing today also maintains that subsequent control, therefore doubles the control of the Constitutional Court over autonomous statutes. What do we propose in Convergence and Union? We plan to abolish the double control of constitutionality, the previous and the subsequent, in the statutes of autonomy whose approval requires a referendum, that is, the statutes that go through 151 of the Constitution. That is why we have introduced into the text of the amendment the whole of which we have tabled a reform of Article 2 in its paragraph (e) and we have also proposed a reform of Article 27, so that we would abolish previous and subsequent checks. But we also introduced a new article, the 79, to extend prior control in this case to organic laws, because if in the end they decide to introduce the prior remedy, we believe that it is much more consistent to extend it in that sense. We would also like to point out that we have introduced a first final provision which literally says the following: Under no circumstances will the ruling of the Constitutional Court on a statute or reform of autonomous status that has been approved in a referendum by a majority of the validly cast votes be admissible. In the event that this circumstance has occurred prior to this Act, statements and interpretations adopted by the Constitutional Court on the reform shall be understood as not in force. In short, ladies and gentlemen - and I am speaking specifically to the People's Party and the Socialist Party - what our parliamentary group wants with the introduction of this final provision first. We are giving a real opportunity to rectify a very serious mistake that has vetoed the will of a people legitimately expressed in the ballot box. Here you have the opportunity to give a political response to a political problem through this reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. In order to establish positions, first of all, by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. As has already been said, this is not the first time this debate has been raised in the House either in this or in the previous parliamentary term, nor is it the first time that my group has the opportunity to speak on this matter. In fact, the spokesman speaking to them on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy had the opportunity to defend an almost exact proposal for a law to the two proposals for a law that arrive in the House today and absolutely coincident with the final objective, that is to recover the previous recourse of unconstitutionality for the statutes of autonomy. I am speaking to you exactly about May 2011, when my parliamentary group debated this very bill tabled today by the Socialist Group and the People's Group. He reminded the whole House at that time of the debate that took place in 1985, when precisely the unconstitutionality of all the organic laws and, therefore, of the statutes of autonomy was abolished. There was a very curious debate in 1985 - the hemerotecs sometimes give you these surprises - and the Socialist Group at that time wanted - and brought the initiative - to eliminate the previous resources of unconstitutionality for all organic laws. Indeed, there had been an abuse between 1982 and 1985 and 25% of the organic laws had been appealed to the Constitutional Court using that possibility of prior appeal and that was paralysing the normal development of the Legislative Chamber. And the Socialist Group has eliminated all the resources of unconstitutionality, among others, those of the statutes of autonomy. As I say, when that debate took place in 1985, the People's Group voted against the elimination of the previous unconstitutionality resources as a whole and also voted against the Basque Nationalist Group and the Convergence and Union Group. The Basque Nationalist Group and the Convergence i Unió Group stated in that 1985 debate that the previous remedies of unconstitutionality for self-government statutes and other organic laws should be maintained because minorities were deprived of the capacity to appeal. They stated this with many arguments in 1985 and I expected in 2011 that the Basque Group and Convergence i Union would recover their own arguments and support the recovery - worth the redundancy - of the previous remedy of unconstitutionality. They did not do so and they expressed themselves in 2011 in a very similar way to what they have expressed here today in defending their amendments in their entirety. I have heard in the debate some manifestations - let me say so - of the nationalist groups, mainly Mrs Surroca, which are somewhat contradictory, or it seems to me, Mrs Surroca. Mrs Surroca has stressed a great deal that there cannot be a court, the Constitutional Court, which limits, violates and rules against what the sovereign people have already decided in a pronouncement. You call the people of Catalonia sovereign. It says: the Constitutional Court cannot review what the sovereign people have decided. Mrs Surroca, if it is not for that pronouncement, that referendum to take place, until it is known whether what the sovereign people are going to say - in this case the non-sovereign people, but yes the citizens of Catalonia - is constitutional. That is the point, that when a referendum on a status of autonomy has been held, there has already been a ruling by the Constitutional Court that it has said that this about what is being pronounced in a referendum an autonomous community is constitutional. There should therefore be no recourse to the Constitutional Court, which would then be decided with all democratic legitimacy, even if an autonomous community had already been declared in a referendum. What it is about when recovering the remedy of previous unconstitutionality is that it is prior, as its own name indicates, and that when a referendum is held it is prior to the remedy of unconstitutionality and... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u68	Excuse me a moment, Congresswoman. Please, I beg you to be quiet and not to form corrosives. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. ...and the pronouncement. The Constitutional Court has a democratic right and duty to ensure that the laws are constitutional, but that is proper to any democracy in the world. There is a court, which in some places is called Constitutional and in others Supreme Court, which ensures the constitutionality of laws, but that is normal, it is the rule of democracy, it is the just, what happens in any democracy in the world and anywhere where there is separation of powers. Everyone has a capacity and a competence and there are supreme courts and constitutional courts that pronounce, and no one in serious democracies, in old democracies, in uncomplex democracies understands that the courts correct neither the sovereign people nor the legislature. No, they fulfill their task, their function. That is democracy, the separation of powers, what in Spain establishes the Constitution and in other countries of the world establishes its constitutions or laws. I quote - I will do it again - to an American judge - by the way, a judge quoted in the sentences by one of the particular votes regarding the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, see what chance - Evans Hughes, who, referring to the American Supreme Court, said that for those of us who live under a constitution the Constitution is what the judges decide it is. That is the Constitution, which the judges ultimately interpret, because that is what we have decided. A constitution is not what a parliamentary majority decides at one time or another, which can change. No, no, a constitution is not what a parliamentary majority decides, but what the Constitutional Court ultimately decides, which is whether it is constitutional or not what a parliamentary majority - today it can be that bench, tomorrow it can be that other one or that other one - decides at every moment what the Constitution is, which is not a gum. There must be a court, in this case a constitutional court, which at all times accepts that the laws that are made are constitutional, because it cannot be that a majority decides at every moment what is really constitutional. In this House we have often denounced the abuses of the majority in interpreting laws, and this is a good time for us to reflect on that and for us to be consistent with those accusations that we often make about how the majority interpret laws, which because they are majorities believe they can interpret the laws. No, no majority can interpret the law, the Constitutional Court has to do so, which is what gives democratic guarantees to all citizens. I think it's very important. And it was very important to recover the previous remedy of unconstitutionality in 2011; there would not have been quite unfortunate things that have happened later in Spain in relation to the statutes of autonomy called second generation, with those statutes that have the letter of status and soul of constitution, because through the intended reform of a statute what has been done is to reform the Constitution, as it was later pronounced, by the Constitutional Court. It would have been very good, very positive for us and for the coexistence between Spaniards who would have recovered in 2011 that previous remedy of unconstitutionality. It was not possible then, when we brought that proposition of law. It voted in favour of the People's Group, of course, but it did so against the rest of the groups. Today the Socialist Group is bringing an initiative with exactly the same claim that we had in 2011 and as one that is registered, and still not discussed in this House in 2012, also from our parliamentary group. We are very happy because if this were literature it would be called plagiarism, but as it is political it is called rectification. We are all wrong and we are all rectified and here we are to rectify, and I am very glad that this rectification takes place and that we can finally incorporate into the law something that should never have been deleted, which is the previous remedy of unconstitutionality exclusively for the statutes of autonomy. That is why my group will vote against the amendments as a whole. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mr José Enrique Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me to devote thirty seconds to a personal matter. It's the first time I've come up to this rostrum in the last two months, just before I had a health problem for which several speakers expressed desire for recovery and signs of affection; I want to thank them and everyone. I am recovered, fortunately, although I will not be able to use the vehemently tone with which, for example, my friend Joan Coscubiela has manifested himself, let alone the speed with which he has spoken. Thank you. [[Applauds]] On 8 June, by chance last week, thirty years after the publication in the Official Gazette of a law, Law 4/1985, which abolished, as has indeed been insisted during this morning, the previous remedy of unconstitutionality against statutes of autonomy and organic laws that previously appeared in the Law of the Constitutional Court. It was done, as Mrs Díez pointed out, for a certain misuse of that remedy and, as stated in the explanatory statement, to try to remove a distorting factor in the purity of the system of relation of the constitutional powers of the State which caused unexpected and meta-constitutional consequences in the last phase of the procedure for the adoption of laws. Today, thirty years later, the Socialist Group is presenting a proposal for a law that you know of and against which these four amendments have been tabled, and whose defence we have heard in the past few minutes. It would be foolish on my part to silence the origin of the proposal that I am defending today, which is nothing other than the dissatisfaction or displeasure that caused us a constitutional conflict that over almost seven years brought together almost all the difficulties and almost all the misconceptions of which we are collectively capable. I am referring to the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. I hasten to warn that this journey was impeccably legal, but, in our opinion, it stressed that the current one is not the best system to solve the possible unconstitutionality of all or part of the articulated of a statute. The fact that, in the current legality, I insist, the remedy of unconstitutionality requires its submission once the norm has been published and prohibits the suspension of the norm, causes unexpected and meta-constitutional consequences of which the legislator of 1985 spoke by bringing in all cases, whatever the community concerned, a question of the agreement reached between that community and the General Courts, and in some cases, in a few cases, as occurred in the case of Catalonia, that the constitutional judgment takes place after the citizens called upon to participate or to endorse with their vote the text approved by the General Courts have expressed their will directly. This is the subject of the proposal, which does not deal with the right to decide, the scope or not of sovereignty. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, More clearly, it seeks to decide whether it is best to follow the system that we have or to change it and replace it with a previous remedy whose previous character tries to resolve the conflict, the anomaly that means questioning constitutionality after citizens have manifested themselves. The amendments, I will say with all due respect that you know I always have in mind but also clearly, I think they have been put to the wrong text. Their fate is not these two proposals for organic law; their fate should have been a proposal for reform of the Constitution. [[Rumors]] Yes, a proposal to reform the Constitution, because to support or accept - I insist that I say this with all respect - the approach that is contained in practically the four amendments means to ignore what the Constitution establishes both in its preliminary title and in Article 161. Because article 9.1 of the Constitution provides that citizens and public authorities, all of them, are subject to the Constitution and the rest of the legal system. Article 9(3) states that the Constitution guarantees, inter alia, the principle of legality, the hierarchy of rules, legal certainty and the prohibition of arbitrariness. And this is a principle that admits no exception, not even with regard to the action of the organ that embodies - it does - national sovereignty: the General Courts. Because it is a fact of experience that, I will not say that every week but with a fairly common assiduousness, the constitutionality of the decisions of this House embodied in organic or ordinary laws is challenged, and no one tears the clothes for it. And the statutes of the clear autonomous communities that are born in the territory of a community, of course their initiative corresponds exclusively to them, but in the end they are not an internal norm of each community, not: they are laws of the State, organic laws of the State. Consequently, since they are organic laws of the State, what is not imaginable is that there are some laws under constitutional control and others are not. Article 161 of the Constitution, which has been cited so much in previous interventions, subjects to the action of the Constitutional Court - and they are right, of course! - the laws - and follow; follow, as the fable said - and the normative provisions with force of law. And, as far as I know, there are several laws: international treaties, of course, for resorting to a non-controversial assumption; also the autonomous statutes of the autonomous communities. I will not enter, because I think it makes no sense to influence this perspective, in the proposal made by some of the amendments that this exclusion from constitutionality control should be limited or applied exclusively to the 151 communities and, on the contrary, that ordinary-regime communities should be subject to control. It is true that in the former there is the efficient cause of our movement, which is to respect the will of the citizens, but it does not seem that, as organic laws, discrimination is required. There are other amendments, or some of them, which are ultimately aimed at moving on to the attack. That is, since it is intended to maintain - but not to introduce - the constitutionality control of the statutes of autonomy, let us apply this to the laws of the State and recognize the competence of the autonomous communities to challenge it. It is the persecution of a colossal - let me express it - political synecdoch by which the party questions everything and not vice versa. As I said to you, it is a debate that has a specific scope that, in our view, seeks to respect in the best possible way both the Constitution and the democratic will of the citizens of the autonomous communities and that is why we have defended it and brought it to this House. There are some minor issues in the amendments which are more dealt with in the course of the partial amendments, and I refer to it. I'm done. Today's proposal is, in our view, a democratic proposal, more democratic than the current text, and democratic also because it does not allow or defend the introduction into our territory of areas not fully subject to the Constitution. It is a democratic proposal as are our behaviors, our projects and also our agreements and pacts, all of which have been made these days and those which reflect it today. It is an agreement with the People's Group that has led to these two proposals for joint presentation. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. For the People's Group, Mrs Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting at which the proposals to which the amendments have been submitted were discussed, to the whole of which the then spokesman for my parliamentary group, Mr Alfonso Alonso, has already put forward from this rostrum the arguments for which we from my group believe that the recovery of the previous remedy is a good thing for our constitutional justice system. They are arguments, therefore, known to all your ladies and gentlemen, which I am not going to repeat here today, except to the extent that I have to make some reference to them in order to also set out the arguments why we are not going to vote in favour of the amendments tabled from the Group of the European People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, that presentation referred to errors, lessons learned, and so the first thing that surprised us about some of the amendments is the claim to recover the previous remedy of unconstitutionality for organic laws, because that is precisely where we believe the biggest error in the initial configuration of the remedy was. The previous remedy was introduced by the legislator thinking of its application against autonomous statutes and against organic laws, but more against autonomous statutes and not so much against organic laws. Paradoxically it was used to resort to these organic laws and this dysfunctional use is what caused paralysis in legislative action. The logical reaction of a parliamentary majority who saw how his activity was permanently obstructed was nothing other than that of his suppression. That is why we are surprised that at present we want to recover precisely that resource for the organic laws when there was the key to its suppression, and that is why we also believe that the previous control for the autonomy statutes and their proposals for reform must now be recovered. Reading the amendments and listening to the spokespersons who defended them from this rostrum this morning, I have been able to draw a first conclusion and I have the feeling that there are some concepts of constitutional law that are not very clear, that confuse one another and sometimes dress or disguise themselves to make them mean something that they don't really mean. That is why I believe that if we can clarify them and place them in their right place we will avoid many of the discussions and some of the dialogues of the deaf that we sometimes attend. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as a basic and fundamental premise, I must say that sovereignty is pre-emptive and pre-emptive. What does that mean? It means something that some spokesman does not seem to understand and is that we have autonomous communities and we have autonomous statutes because we have a Constitution that allowed it, a Constitution that we vote for all Spanish citizens and that allowed for autonomous communities and autonomous statutes. And look at whether the Spaniards who ratified a Constitution recognized two different ways of accessing autonomy, a fast way and a slow way were generous. That sovereignty, which resides in the Spanish people, in all the citizens, reside in the part of the territory they reside in, leads me to stop at another of the confusions that I have been able to hear this morning and read in some of the amendments. It is a purported conflict of two sovereigntys. I mean pretended because there is no sovereignty conflict, and there is no sovereignty conflict because there is only one sovereignty. [[Applauds]] The only sovereignty that the Constitution contains is that of the Spanish people, and the sooner we assume that reality, the less problems we will have. That Constitution, I have also said before, allowed two ways of access to autonomy and also two different ways of drawing up autonomous statutes. But so far the difference, ladies and gentlemen. It was a procedural difference, a difference in access, a difference in the beginning, a difference in how to make autonomy and a difference in the process of drawing up the statutes. But, since the autonomous communities are constituted and autonomous statutes are drawn up, all autonomous statutes are of the same legal nature. That is why it makes no sense to call for a different treatment from the Constitutional Court to some statutes of autonomy and others. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] , and for that reason we cannot share the difference made in some amendments to exclude from the appeal those statutes drawn up by the 151 procedure, because they are equal, have the same legal nature as the rest of the statutes. Nor do we share another prediction that appears in an amendment which proposes to exclude from the appeal those statutes whose approval requires a positive referendum by voters in their territorial sphere. To begin with, ladies and gentlemen, because if we did, we might as well be left without the subject of the appeal, because it may be that all the statutes now provide for a referendum of their citizens to approve their reform. It is true that at the beginning of the autonomous process only some statutes needed such a referendum, but successive statutory reforms have led to other statutes incorporating that need for recourse. I quote the example I have closest to the Aragon Autonomy Statute. That being said, ladies and gentlemen, it is for the statutes that require a referendum for which the first recourse is most meaningful. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if a rule, in this case a statute of autonomy, contains unconstitutional precepts, those precepts will be unconstitutional before and after the referendum. The referendum does not undermine any unconstitutionality, of course not. What is serious is to make citizens believe that because they have voted for it and ratified it, this status of autonomy can no longer be controlled by the Constitutional Court. More or less they come to say that as citizens have voted and ratified it, whether it is constitutional or not, it doesn't matter because that's what it's worth. And no, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the case, and in order to endorse this absolute legal error, we speak again of another conflict, in this case of a conflict of legitimacy, forgetting also here another fundamental principle of constitutional law, and it is that there is no legitimacy without constitutionality, that statutory legitimacy has its origin in constitutionality, that statutory powers are constituted and limited powers. Citizens cannot be deceived in that way and must be told that the fact that they endorse a statute does not mean that it is constitutional. Constitutional will be if it does not contain provisions contrary to the Constitution, and that can only be said by the Constitutional Court, not citizens, no matter how much they are consulted in a referendum. That is why the previous appeal is the one that allows the Constitutional Court to rule before citizens endorse the text. Nor do I want to overlook a statement that I have heard today from other speakers from some group, but the first time I was brought to my attention was when I read it in one of the amendments, and that is that it makes no sense to subject the statutes to a control different from that which is submitted to the Constitution because they are part of the block of constitutionality. Mrs. Surroca, I tell you from the affection and from the appreciation that you know I have - and I take advantage of that affection to congratulate you because I know it's your birthday, so many congratulations - I dropped my glasses when I read that. I want to think that you really don't believe that a statute of autonomy is exactly the same as the Constitution, I want to think about it, because if it is, or some other real spokesman believes it, I think that would explain a lot of things. Still, just in case, I'm gonna try to convince her and convince some other spokesperson and get them out of their mistake. The Constitution is the supreme norm of our legal system and all other rules are subject to it, including the statutes of autonomy, including the statutes that were adopted by 151, including the statutes that were adopted by referendum of citizens, including those, ladies and gentlemen. All statutes are subject to the Constitution. [[Applauds]] It is true that they are part of the bloc of constitutionality, it has been said here and I also share that statement, but they are part of the bloc of constitutionality as long as they are constitutional. What cannot be done is that a statute of autonomy with unconstitutional precepts forms part of the bloc of constitutionality. No, of course not, because the Constitution is in the bloc, and the constitutions that are constitutional are incorporated into the bloc. Otherwise, no, because if not, what would we have? A constitutional bloc with rules that say one thing and others that say the other. What would the Constitutional Court do then? What would be the criterion when deciding on the constitutionality of another rule or statute of autonomy? Unless what is intended is a covert amendment of the Constitution through statutes or a constitutional mutation, in which case, Your Honor, I must say that - as you also know - that is not possible in our system either. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that the People's Group is not the first time it has spoken in favour of this instrument. We have done so through amendments, we have done so by supporting proposals from other groups or with our proposals, we have done so in 2007, in 2010, in 2011, and we again say this today by voting against the amendments to the whole presented, because we firmly believe that this resource will be positive within our constitutional justice system. Because of the special position and the relevant meaning that the statutes of autonomy have in our constitutional model, we believe in the need to recover that previous remedy of constitutionality. Abusing a second of the president's generosity, I would not want to come down from this rostrum without saying something that also refers to things I have heard today. Mrs Jordà, with all the affection that you know I have for you, no one from the People's Parliamentary Group, nor of course from this government - I think I am not mistaken if I say so - we stand up and lie down thinking about Catalonia and the Statute of Catalonia, ladies and gentlemen, that no, I mean it. We got up and slept thinking about the general interest of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] You know why? Because we are Members, like all those who sit in this House, with a representative mandate, with a free mandate and with a national mandate. We represent all the Spaniards. That is why our priority is the interest of all Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Cortés. In a few minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u75	We shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of dona María Pilar Alegría Continente, I ask Don Ignacio Magaña Sierra if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u76	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u77	In place of Don Gabriel Echávarri Fernández, I ask Don Rufino Selva Guerrero if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u78	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u79	Don Ignacio Magaña Sierra and Don Rufino Selva Guerrero have acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u80	Let's start the voting. As there are numerous votes in the amendments from the Senate, we have shortened the time to ten seconds. I'm telling you to be careful. Motion by the Socialist Group on the need for fair growth. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 117 against, 174 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u81	It's rejected. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the free movement of works of art between the Canary Islands and the European Union and the Canary Islands. [[LORD KITCHEN]] [[File number 173/000219]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u82	Joint Group motion on the free movement of works of art between the Canary Islands-Península-Europa-Canarias. [[Mr. Quevedo]] The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 309 against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u83	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u84	Mrs. Blanco, I beg you a little silence. Senate amendments to the bill on voluntary jurisdiction. Firstly, amendments to the index. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 196 against 108 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u85	They're approved. Amendments to the preamble, articles 59, 92, 124 and 130 and the final provision eighteenth. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 187 against 104 abstentions 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u86	They're approved. Amendments to Articles 1 and 53. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 290 against, 1 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u87	They're approved. Amendments to Articles 2 and 80. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 212 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u88	They're approved. Amendments to Articles 3 and 86. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 211 against 92 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u89	They're approved. Amendments to articles 5, 68, 99 and 140. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 303 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u90	They're approved. Amendment to Article 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 199 against 104 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u91	It's approved. Amendment to Article 17. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour 183 against 105 abstentions. 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u92	It's approved. Amendments to articles 19 and 52. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 291 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u93	They're approved. Amendments to Article 21 and the third and fifth transitional provisions [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 198 against 94 abstentions 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u94	They're approved. Amendments to articles 22 and 35. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 184 against 14 abstentions 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u95	They're approved. Amendments to articles 26 and 34. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 180 against, 26 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u96	They're approved. Amendments to articles 27 and 97. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 285; abstentions 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u97	They're approved. Amendments to articles 36 to 40 and 42. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 185 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u98	They're approved. Amendments to article 102 and final provisions fifth, sixth and seventh. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour 196 against 89 abstentions 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u99	They're approved. Amendment to transitional provision 4 [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour 190 against 106; abstentions 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u100	It's approved. Amendment to the first final provision, paragraph 28 bis [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes; 198 in favour; 106 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u101	It's approved. Amendment to the first subparagraph of paragraph 54a of the final provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 201 against, 10 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u102	It's approved. Amendments to final provision 4(4). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes; 209 in favour; 92 against; 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u103	They're approved. Amendment to the fourth subparagraph of paragraph 12 of the final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 185 against, 103 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u104	It's approved. Amendments to the remainder of the fourth final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 301 votes in favour, 207 against, 92 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u105	They're approved. Amendments to the eleventh final provision, paragraph 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 291 against, 1 abstention, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u106	They're approved. Amendments to the remainder of the eleventh final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 198 against, 94 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u107	They're approved. Amendment to the final provision twelfth. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 302 votes in favour, 180 against, 120 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u108	It's approved. Amendment to the final provision twenty-first. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 175 against 113; abstentions 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u109	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u110	Joint vote now on the amendments to the full refund of the draft law for the defence of food quality, tabled by the parliamentary groups Mixto, Vasco and Catalan [[Mrs. Jordà]] [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 39 against, 179 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u111	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u112	The House's plenary has called for the final deliberation and vote on this bill, and that is what we are voting on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour 135 against 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u113	There's no lawyer left in plenary. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 42/2007 OF 13 DECEMBER ON NATURAL PATRIMONY AND BIODIVERSITY. [[File number 121/000145]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u114	Joint vote on amendments to the full refund of the draft law amending Law 42/2007 of 13 December 2007 on natural heritage and biodiversity, submitted by the mixed parliamentary groups of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural, Catalan and Socialist Left. [[Mrs. Jordà]] [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour 126 against 175; abstentions 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u115	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u116	The plenary has been requested to approve the deliberation and vote on this bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour 134 against 175; abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u117	There's no lawyer left in plenary. - PROPOSAL OF AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW FOR THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/1979 OF 3 OCTOBER, OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL COURT. [[File number 122/00140]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u118	Proposed Organic Law on Reform of the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October 1979. There are several amendments to the alternative text and we will therefore vote separately. Firstly, amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the Joint Group [[Mr. Tardà]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 34 against, 273 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u119	It's rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the Basque Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 37 against, 273.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u120	It's rejected. Amendment to the whole, with alternative text, submitted by the IU Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 36 against, 272 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u121	It's rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text of the Catalan Group [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 36 against, 273 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u122	It's rejected. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW AMENDMENT OF ORGANIC LAW 2/1979 OF 3 OCTOBER, OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL COURT, FOR THE RECOVERY OF THE PREVIOUS INSTITUTIONAL RECOVERY OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ON AUTONOMY STATUS OR THEIR AMENDMENT. [[File number 122/00141]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u123	Proposal for an organic law amending the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October, for the recovery of the previous remedy of unconstitutionality for draft organic law on autonomous statutes or its amendment. There are several amendments to the whole alternative text that we are going to vote on successively. Firstly, amendment to the whole alternative text tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group [[Mr. Tardà]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 35 against, 273 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u124	It's rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the Basque Group [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 37 against, 273.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u125	It's rejected. Amendment to the entire alternative text submitted by the IU Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 37 against, 272 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u126	It's rejected. Amendment to the whole with alternative text submitted by the Catalan Group [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 36 against, 269 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-18-CD150618.u127	It's rejected. The meeting rose. It was two and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
