ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u1	The meeting was called to order. As a previous matter, I would like to tell you that this Presidency must inform the plenary that a letter has been received from the President of the Courts of Aragon, requesting the postponement of the debate on the proposal for a law amending the Civil Code in relation to personal status and civil neighbourhood. That is why this item has been excluded from the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u2	Also, and as agreed in the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary that the inquiry by the Basque Group, PNV, which appears on the agenda as item 27, be discussed first, and finally the urgent inquiry by the Joint Group, which appears as item 25 of the agenda, be discussed. [[Mr. Tardà]] [[Settlement]] I want to tell you that today's session will last long enough, because we will see the entire agenda set for Tuesday and we will leave nothing for Wednesday. They can therefore assume that even if we have excluded point I, it will last long enough.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u3	First, it takes into consideration the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, which regulates the embargo or suspension of the arms trade with invasive or occupying States of territories or States. For the presentation and defence of the initiative, Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, since December 2014, we have had a new international instrument to combat the proliferation of the arms trade, in particular the International Treaty on the Arms Trade, which our country, Spain, has ratified. In Spain there is no doubt that information on the arms trade has improved in recent years, but it must also be said that the Interministerial Commission that evaluates and filters Spanish arms exports to other countries is attached to the Ministry of Economy. In the case of Sweden, and following other international examples, a committee of similar characteristics has in that country the prior opinion of a plural parliamentary committee before decision-making. It would not be wrong if we had a similar mechanism in Spain for Congress and the Senate to evaluate previously reports on arms exports to other countries. It should be noted that, for example, only in the first half of 2014, Spain exported weapons to countries in conflict where human rights could be violated and atrocities committed, according to the report also known as Secrets that kill and that sign several prestigious non-governmental organizations: Amnesty International, Intermon Oxfam, Greenpeace and Fundació per la pau. One such example would be the export of Spanish weapons to Saudi Arabia, and I say this only as a sample, because we could talk about other countries such as Colombia, Israel, etc. Specifically Saudi Arabia is Spain's second largest arms importer, to whom we exported arms worth 240 million euros in the first half of the year. Today is a reality the reports of various international organizations that speak of civilian casualties and evidence of human rights violations in the bombings that Saudi Arabia is perpetrating on Yemen's civilian population in front of the leading military coalition. There are also reports that part of the weapons Saudi Arabia receives from Spain are being sold or re-delivered to the so-called Syrian opposition. Therefore, there is Spanish armament that ends up participating in the Syrian conflict through a third country, which in this case is Saudi Arabia, a country that - according to 2014 data - is the largest importer of defense material in the world, and this is something that worries us. Spain is also, according to data from 2014, the seventh world producer of weapons and, in a meteoric way, in recent years has been increasing the export of weapons by Spain: in 2003-2004 we exported 400 million euros and in 2013 we reached the figure of 4 billion euros. Therefore, in ten years we have multiplied by a thousand the export capacity of armaments by our country. It is a reality that nearly half a million people die every year in the world as a result of the use of firearms in wars, conflicts or killed by criminal gangs. We do not know whether our minister, Don Pedro Morenés, is the person who has all the capacities to discern, choose and decide which countries should be exported by Spain. Obviously his past as advisor and manager of several companies in the arms sector should not influence, but it certainly influences his decision-making. This rule that we present here today aims to strengthen Spain's international role and its commitment to peace, human rights and international law. The invasion and occupation of a territory establish unmatched violence against its original inhabitants and must be addressed. The rule is one more step towards neutrality because if nothing else is done, it could imply de facto support for the status quo generated by an invading and occupying State, which would come to support the right to force, rather than international law, which is what we have here today in this debate. I want to make three statements: The first is that one of the possible instruments of intervention used at many times in history is the arms embargo on those who have caused conflict; the second is that by international conflict one can understand any kind of violent and coercive alteration on international legality, and the third is that States can and must exercise, on the basis of their sovereignty, political, economic and military measures and others that show their support for international law and affect the State that has committed a serious violation of international law and coexistence. In some articles we make very concrete proposals, for example, article 3 refers to the embargo or suspension of the arms trade. It says: When there is an invasion of territory by a State and there is an occupation, the Government will suspend any kind of trade and arms transaction with the invading and occupying State. It shall also review individually and, where appropriate, suspend each transaction of goods and services considered to be dual-use. As I said before, this Congress, in the Commission, annually studies and debates the annual report on the arms trade presented to us by the Government, but it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. When this report comes into the hands of the Members of Parliament, the decision of the Government is already taken, it is not possible to rethink it. Today, obviously, in the face of an uncertain international scenario, in which new conflicts appear and arise day after day, the opinion of this Congress, the opinion of the Senate in advance of the decisions of the Government would be necessary and, therefore, that is also something that we are in some way asking for. This is the bill that brings us here today. We call for Spain to be strengthened as an actor on the international stage, always seeking peace to conflicts, dialogue and negotiated exits, so that we do not really have to mourn the deaths caused in too many wars. Today, ladies and gentlemen, this is my last speech in this House. As some of you know, I have been elected Member of Parliament in Catalonia and in the next few days I will join that House. I want to tell everyone here and those who listen to us that it has been a pleasure and an honor to work with you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. On your farewell I wish you the best. He has been a great parliamentarian and will continue to be in the Parliament of Catalonia. Mr Tardà has the floor in the first place for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few years we have criticized the immorality of the various governments that have been committed by the arms industry; in fact, it is perhaps the most subsidized sector by the different Spanish governments. Year after year we have seen, through the report submitted by the same Government, how weapons are sold to countries that systematically violate human rights or to regions where peace hangs on a thread, Spanish weapons to suppress Arab Springs or to commit war crimes in Palestine. The Law on the Control of Foreign Trade in Defence and Dual-Use Materials and Human Rights are therefore subject to the economic interests of the Spanish military industry. They allow the debate to focus on the State of Morocco, the occupying Power of the Democratic Saharaui Arab Republic, taking into account also that it has every sense to say this in the Spanish Parliament in view of the historical responsibilities of the Spanish State in all the problems generated by decolonization; in fact, the violation of human rights by the occupying Power is constant and evident. I'm going to give you two examples. [[Show a picture of Hassanna Aalia]] First example, Hassanna Aalia is a Saharan activist who has been arrested in the Spanish State and should not be extradited. I repeat, it should not be extradited, even if the Spanish Government has already refused asylum at the time, which is why it has now been arrested and the responsibility of the Spanish State for not extraditing it is hanging because, if extradited, this person will be tortured and his civil rights will be violated. But well, it's not just this case. I'm going to talk to you about another case, I'm going to talk to you about Ali Aarrass. He is a citizen born in Melilla who was arrested at the request of the National Court and Judge Baltasar Garzón but was not tried at the time, and not only was not tried, but also his case was filed. [[Show a picture of Ali Aarrass]] I repeat, your case was filed. After a time, two years, the Moroccan Government urged the Spanish Government to extradite him and the Socialist Government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero extradited him, even though Amnesty International had already warned at that time that it was a great irresponsibility as he would be tortured. Well, Amnesty International and the same United Nations torture rapporteur have already reported that this person has been systematically tortured. Moreover, it is now on hunger strike, a new hunger strike that already lasts forty-six days. I believe that, in line with the parliamentary initiative presented by the Plural Left Group, it has the full meaning that today we also expand this debate on the consequences of the sale of weapons to States that violate human rights or use these weapons to consolidate or shield situations of power. The Spanish State must commit itself to human rights at the international level and not be complicit in violations, either on a personal level - the cases of Hassanna Aalia and Ali Aarrass are very relevant here today - or by selling weapons, I repeat, to States that hold territorial occupations or repress peoples. So we have already announced to you that, even if the legislature is already perilous, we are going to call for the presence of the Ministers of Justice and the Interior in order and effect to be able to discuss here and urgently the cases of the citizens of Hassanna Aalia and Ali Aarrass. I think we can't close our eyes, we can't keep this hypocrisy so evident in situations that we should be scandalized and not pass them so tangentially as if they didn't come to light. So, I repeat, solidarity with Ali Aarrass and with Hassanna Aalia. I remind you that today in many cities of the Spanish state there are concentrations of support for this Saharan activist, as well as of denunciation of the situation of Ali Aarrass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. I now give the floor to Mr Serrano from the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u8	There is no need to be anti-military to support this proposal of the Plural Left. It is enough to be aware of what usually happens in countries that sign international agreements in principle in this regard but then do not incardinate them in their own domestic legislation. We all know that in any country of smaller scale at the international concert your arms industry does not have enough internal market and that if it maintains such industry it is for export. Its justification is already known, even more so in times of crisis and high unemployment: the creation and maintenance of jobs. But the need for a fully demilitarized world to understand and explain the need for an economic system of full and dignified employment, an economic system where employment is not based on the manufacture of more and more secure killing devices, an economic system whose needs for balance between demography and global resources are not based on the historical and multi-secular recourse to wars, famines, pests and diseases that are often their aftermath need to be addressed. Economic justification, on the other hand, which is more flagrant in its perfidy when there are governments that have no concern in including among their ministers people with interests in the arms industry. There are and must be other areas in which to create employment, a job based on peace. With this philosophy Geroa Bay proposed a partial amendment to the budgets by proposing the transfer of the heading for military R & D & I to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the ones that sustain the weight of employment, so that such employment is more productive and more qualified. Of course, we were rejected by the mentality of si vis pacem for bellum, known as the aphorism of an empire, the Roman, which based its peace on militarism, the invasion of territories and the appropriation by force of its soils and sources of wealth. Any country, European or not, can try to sell such justifications around employment among its citizens, but it is not a valid justification in mature and peaceful societies. Not of course in Navarre, where the philosophy of si vis pacem for bellum makes us suffer the active presence of a firing range and field of maneuvers with real fire like that of the Bardenas, in whose surroundings there have already been serious accidents that have by chance not become tragedy but that at any time could be, and where in a few days' time military maneuvers of great intensity will be practiced precisely for tests, among other things, of invasion of territories by NATO, where it considers it of interest to intervene, and not always, as we well know, for the interests of peace. Dismantle the Bardens' firing range at once. Any country, European or non-European, can try to sell economic justifications, especially if it has no reservations about putting arms manufacturers as defence ministers. Hence the need for a law like this, and more so in this Spanish State, to ensure at least that the international agreements signed are incorporated into domestic legislation, that no Government can sell or provide arms to those who invade or occupy territories outside its sovereignty, even if the Government has as its defence ministers arms manufacturers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Mr Esteban has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I see that here everyone is talking about their own book, taking out issues that have little to do with what the bill that is presented to us says, I will try to focus on its content and its meaning or not and if possible. Go ahead with some things to make them clear, because Mr Nuet, who has presented the proposal, has focused his criticisms and seems to be largely directed, for example, at Saudi Arabia. I would like to make clear the position of our group with regard to the case of Ali Alnimr, that of Raif Badawi and other actions that he may have had and that he is having and the very essence of the Saudi State. We have put forward non-law proposals and questions to the Government in this regard, and we appeal to all groups in this House to, as far as we can, press the Government of Saudi Arabia not to commit the barbarities of punishment, in a case of direct execution with Ali Alnimr, a person who was arrested at only seventeen years of age simply for participating in demonstrations and for defending the right to democracy through the Internet, and for the same in the latter case by Raif Badawi, for defending a reflection on the value of democracy, sentence to beatings, pecuniary punishment, etc. That's what we should all push on. Having said that, we go to the proposal of law, to its content. I think she's dyed of goodwill from above, I don't doubt that, Mr. Nuet, but some things do get my attention. You have presented it by saying that when serious violations of international law occur here will be this bill, which will make Spain take a stand in defence of international legality and human rights. What I find impressive about the bill is the defense that makes of state integrity, in principle. Secondly, what are you talking about? It is very short, Article 3: 'When a State invades a territory and there is an occupation, the Government shall suspend any kind of trade and arms transaction with the invading and occupying State'. That is, invasion of territory and occupation. In fact, it is in the title of the proposed law: invaders or occupants of territories or States. We are not talking about human rights, we are talking about a specific case. Not only that, but the wording is so confusing that in article 2 it says: 'For the purposes of this law, occupation means the exercise by means of the force of permanence in a territory other than its own by a State'. He adds: 'The provisions of the preceding paragraph include the displacement of both the original population and the population of the invasion State to that of the invaded territory'. What do you mean, that in order to implement the proposed law, it is also necessary to have a population displacement, or that there is a population displacement and that the State has not even been invaded? What's this like? Let us go to the concrete cases, because unfortunately - and I wish it could be done, Mr Nuet - it is impossible for this to work as a mathematical picture: when this movement occurs, this and this, what needs to be done is another, because the case study is multiple, very varied and with many nuances, and I fear that seeking a precise legal formula for decision-making is practically impossible. So what do we do, Mr. Nuet? You are very philosophical, you will confess it, because it was perhaps earlier more philosophical, but you have also continued to be philosophical in this House in all your speeches. What do we do then? As Crimea has been invaded or the eastern Ukraine has been invaded - and there are data that there are also Russian troops - the arms trade with Russia must be halted. However, not with the United States. But, look, the United States has apparently not invaded but is bombing territories of other countries; it is bombing but is not occupying. You don't think you should judge yourself? I say this because it has been presented as: when human rights are violated, etc. No, you talk here about when a territory is invaded and when population displacements occur. I do not know whether it is necessary to move people or not, it is not clear as you have written. If it were not necessary, with the case of Crimea they would already have a very clear example, and if there was a need for displacement of the population, it has occurred in the case of eastern Ukraine, we do not need to go to examples of the Middle East. I know you'd be thinking about some cases anyway. However, look at the bombings - which lately seems like the military option of many countries - in a third country but without physically occupying the ground this would be inapplicable, as you have presented it. What happens if the occupation by force is endorsed by the United Nations to protect the population? Because the United Nations does not appear anywhere in its proposal. What if there is an invasion by force to protect the population? And even if you don't give that case, I'm going to give you an example of a few years ago that you have to know perfectly, the case of the Khmer Rouge. We already know that there was then a lot of geopolitics and tensions before, first a certain friendship with Vietnam and then an enmity, but to the fact that Vietnam invaded Cambodia and ended the genocide that were making on its population the Khmer Rouge, would that also apply? Well, maybe a more detailed examination of what was going on might be needed. It makes more sense to reflect on each case, to make it very clear that our norm and our north have to be human rights and the protection of lives and, from there, to make the decision in one case or another. I insist, the casuistic is huge. What do we do with states that repress their own people? Is there an invasion of the territory? No, no, Nor would this serve to stop the sale of weapons, as you have presented it. Besides, who measures that there's a repression? Who measures what is legitimate one thing or another? What if there's a revolution? How should we act? For example, how did the allies act by blocking the supply of arms to the Republic and thus, with non-intervention, indirectly helping the franchisors, although they were theoretically in favour of legality? Should I do that? Mr Nuet, it is that the casuistic is so complicated and so different and so full of nuances that I fear that, as much as there is goodwill - I do not deny it - in the presentation of this initiative it is impossible to regulate with a mathematical legal formula something like this. Obviously, my group is not going to oppose the consideration, but, as it is presented and drafted, we see no use for the purpose to be achieved, which is the protection of human rights. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be for my own sake that I came to this debate thinking that we were going to deal with the embargo or suspension of the arms trade with invading or occupying states of territories or states. As some of my colleagues have already pointed out before, here everyone comes to talk about their own things. We are talking about human rights and many things, but here we have a proposal for a law and I, on behalf of my group, will try to talk about it by pointing out, in line with what the representative of the PNV has already pointed out, the legal shortcomings but also by highlighting the fallacy, when not falseness, of some of the arguments used by Mr Nuet, representative of the Plural Left. I will say this in a simple, clear and direct way: this proposal for a law, if it were to become law, would make our country directly burden itself with the right of humanitarian interference and the duty to protect, which are now fundamental issues in international law to ensure peace and security. After many decades of adoption of the Charter of the United Nations, it was accepted that the right of non-interference had limitations, one of them being the serious violation of human rights, the right of non-interference on humanitarian grounds. Another is precisely one of the issues that you deal with in this proposal for a law, exactly in the second paragraph of Article 2, the duty to protect the civilian population from alleged serious violations, crimes against humanity. If you take the wording of article 1, of what is meant by invasion, you have forgotten something in this of the invasion as you define it, because since you do not relate it to international legality - by the way, international legality that we have become domestic legality - by not putting something like this in place: for the purposes of this law, the entry of a territory, etc., under illegal conditions or contrary to international legality, by not adding that little detail and by generalizing it to any kind of action in another country - as has already been said - are charged with nothing more and nothing less than the Charter of the United Nations, which specifically regulates intervention operations to ensure peace and security, and I add: and then the right of interference for humanitarian reasons and the duty to protect has been incorporated. You're omitting it. Let's get to the issue of occupation. Same thing. An occupation means the exercise by force of permanence in a territory other than its own by a State. All peace-building, peacekeeping and peace-building operations are effectively carried out with the consent of the belligerent parties. But there is one type of operation, which is the imposition of peace, which is obviously against the will of the parties. These peace enforcement operations are sometimes very important because they stop conflicts, prevent genocide. Or do you believe that peace enforcement operations are involved in those genocidal dictatorial regimes that the international community has decided to sanction with the acquiescence of such regimes? It is obvious that it is done against his will. But none of that picks you up. The embargo or suspension of the arms trade is not the same as production. Mr Nuet has said that Spain is the seventh largest arms producer in the world, but he has failed to tell us what position we are in with regard to the international arms trade, and we are neither in the seventh nor in the eighth or tenth. Do you know who is the first customer of the American defence industry? It is the American Government, it is not the export of weapons, it is the American Government itself. What I am trying to say is that the embargo or suspension of the arms trade, as you have pointed out in your presentation, is already regulated in this country, but what it is about is applicability. Do you know what happens to the applicability of the arms embargo or trade in the global world? Whether it is done by majority or unanimous decision of the international community or not is effective. Would you like an example of the first, that if done with the majority support of the international community, it is effective? This is the arms embargo adopted by the international community against the apartheid regime in South Africa, and it worked. Do you know what happens when you do it unilaterally? There are other countries that, as they do not feel affected by these national legal decisions, continue to export arms. This is what continues to fuel the war in Syria at this time, to cite one of the examples. In conclusion, in a global world, these kinds of legal initiatives have to be the result not of unilateral voluntary proposals - without doubt, with very good faith, but with very bad results - but of major agreements of the international community to be effective; the rest, is a toast to the sun. And I conclude by saying: do you know who are the best allies of those perverse defense industries that are dedicated to fuelling wars in third world countries? Voluntary proposals without any real effectiveness. That is the case with this proposal for a law, which obviously leads to our group being unable to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mrs Castellanos has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, go ahead and say that since the Democratic Union of Catalonia we will always be in favour of talking and dialogue, especially when the purpose of this dialogue is respect for human rights. That being said, since human rights are a fundamental part of the explanatory statement of this initiative, we wonder, even if we can agree with its content, whether it is really necessary, or whether it is as it is formulated. Especially because we are in an area where there is already a broad body of legislation at international level, and because after the entry into force of the Arms Trade Treaty in December 2014, we are entering a situation that surpasses both regional and national control bodies. Thanks to the UN Treaty, States will not be able to transfer conventional weapons to other countries if they know that they will be used to commit genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes or facilitate their commission. The treaty also establishes strict control systems that fall within the framework of international law and regulate a trade that for decades had lacked any control. There is no doubt that the arms trade has caused and is causing suffering, millions of victims, and that for years the regulation of this international trade was not enough to contain conflicts and human rights violations. The problem, given this global nature of conflict and the production of weapons, is that the control agencies are really insufficient. The importance of the United Nations Treaty lies mainly here, since effective implementation can undoubtedly contribute to transforming the way arms trade operates. Hence our scepticism at this proposal for a law, drafted before the adoption of the Arms Trade Treaty, which focuses on a very specific aspect of the embargo or suspension by the invading or occupying States. His explanatory statement refers to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to the treaties signed by Spain in this regard, its logical obligation to comply with them. However, it does not seem to us that this law proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left is necessary to strengthen Spain's commitment to the defence of human rights, since the UN Treaty, ratified by Spain on 2 April 2014, already refers to them in articles 6 and 7. Moreover, Law 53/2007 of 28 December 2007 on the control of foreign trade in defence and dual-use matters, which the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union voted in favour, already provides in Article 8 for the refusal of applications for authorization, suspension and revocation of authorizations for trade in arms where there are reasonable indications that dual-use products and technologies can be used in actions that disturb peace, stability or security at a global or regional level. In any case, perhaps the time has come to review the legislation that we have at our disposal, to bring it into line with the UN Treaty and the new world situation, rather than adding a new law that we do not believe is necessary in the terms presented. Since the Democratic Union of Catalonia, we are ready to sit down and discuss the possible need to review Spanish legislation on arms trade. We are ready to revise Law 53/2007 to bring it into line with the current legal framework following the adoption of the UN Treaty, or Council of Europe Common Position 2008/944/CFSP of 8 December 2008. But as far as the proposal for a law that we are debating right now is concerned, the Members of the European Parliament and the Members of the European Union will opt for abstention. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Castellano. Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Nuet, you spoke to us basically in your speech about the parliamentaryization of the debate on the arms trade, not exactly about the three articles that make up this bill. As some previous speakers have also spoken to me, I will try to adhere to the proposal we are going to vote on, not without saying that the parliamentaryization of the arms trade debate has improved considerably in recent years. In other areas, I would like us to have the control that we have in the two annual debates in the Defence Committee, initiatives that began with various non-legislative proposals that our colleague Carles Campuzano presented in the 1996-2000 parliamentary term, based on proposals from the Unesco per la pau Chair, the University of Barcelona, Vicenç Fisas and Raül Romeva, and that are now a reality. You have proposed to us the model of Sweden; the model of the United States on arms sales control is also a more demanding model. If we had to improve in the annual debates, the Government would inform us of the derogations, but there was no transparency about their motivation to some countries where there was obviously a violation of human rights. What you are asking us is something quite different, is the prohibition of the sale of weapons to countries that sponsor or promote an occupation. This, as has been rightly said, invites reflection and casuistics, first, because, after the unfortunate experience of the Balkan wars in the 1990s, a concept developed in international law, the right of interference, which crystallized 2005 in international law from the United Nations resolutions covering the obligation to protect, and in the obligation to protect, sometimes also under the mandate of the United Nations and international legality, there have been cases in which peacekeeping or peace enforcement operations have required this occupation which, in principle, seems to us to be the last of the possibilities, because the invasion of Iraq has taught us a good lesson about the mistakes that we are still reaping more than ten years later. It is also true that in the strict wording, especially in the wording of the definition of occupation in article 2, you or those who wrote this proposal were perhaps thinking of Palestine, although Mr Tardà thought they were talking about Morocco and the Sahara. By the way, on 20 November, forty years will be celebrated, in addition to the death of the dictator, of the publication in the Official Gazette of the State of the status of colonial power of withdrawal in the Sahara, in a conflict still to be resolved. In any case, Mr Nuet, I have to acknowledge the boldness of the proposal, because surely there are a couple of embassies that are not restless, but if you follow this proposal carefully, one is the embassy of the Russian Federation, because this proposal of law must concern quite a lot of Russian foreign policy with respect to Crimea, Donbass and with regard to frozen conflicts, South Ossetia, Abkhazia, Transnistria, Moldova, or also indirectly with Nagorno Karabakh through the Russian bases in Armenia. We are talking about occupation of territories, and I already know that the French stopped selling some ships to Russia as a result of the Crimean conflict and that they were sold to another South American country, so surely some other country must follow this bill also with interest. I agree with other speakers who say that the case study would lead us to more precise legislation on the subject. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Mr Nuet, you have said that this is your last intervention. I would like to thank you on your own behalf and the Parliamentary Group on Convergence, and I believe that you have also joined us in the years we have shared. I want to tell you that you are a professional, both when we have agreed and when we have disagreed. Many times you and I do not think exactly the same, but personally I wish you and your family the best. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Socialist Group, Mr Morlan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Nuet, allow me to begin almost by your end. I too am leaving, also leaving this House after several legislatures. It has been an honor and a satisfaction to have been a member of my constituency during all these legislatures. Allow me also to thank the services of the House, all its officials and workers, for the good work they have done and how comfortable they have made me feel when I have needed them. When I read this motion for a law, I had certain hopes and thought that it was a proposal with an undoubted silence, because to talk about this subject with all the edges, all the aspects and the casuistics that it undoubtedly has, it is necessary to be a good connoisseur - I do not doubt that it is - and to work very seriously on an aspect that affects not only our country but other countries and, within ours, many sectors, many industry, many workers and many people who share with you, as I can share, the struggle for peace, the defence of human rights and the prevention by all means that arms trafficking serves to cause loss of life and deterioration of living together. In your presentation you referred to an issue that we will almost certainly discuss next week, when the next Defence Committee is convened, where each group has made its proposals on how to control the sale of arms to third countries by the Spanish government and industry. I would like the Group of the European People's Party to have the intention of reaching agreements for once, and I imagine that in the proposals that are made we will be able to define to what extent we are able to have full transparency in that trade and to have a good agreement with Jimddu, with the interministerial board, which carries out all the authorizations. But that must be seen in that Commission, and I would like us to reach an agreement because I believe that what you have put forward and in those terms is interesting. Returning to the proposition of law, I agree with what some of my predecessors have said, for example, Mr Esteban, because the casuistics they have put on the table is true and this proposition of law does not solve it. But I have been further concerned, and it is said in an additional second provision that this applies to everything that has happened since the United Nations was established. Do you know what it means to review all that? One is a little surprised, because putting the counter to zero saying that everything that has happened on this planet since the United Nations was formed will be reviewed let me tell you that it is a bit exaggerated and a pretension that I believe is beyond the reach of all of us. Regardless of what else there is about which it is also true that they are in doubt. We are talking about the retroactivity or non-retroactivity of laws and a law of these characteristics is a law whose retroactive effects are not to be accepted anywhere, and that is why I think that provision is null and void and I do not think it has any virtuality. I therefore believe that this proposal for a law is very good for motivating this debate, so that the groups are going to establish positions on what the arms trade has to be or how it can be, but I do not think that the terms contained in this proposal for a law are the most appropriate ones to meet those needs and the will that you demonstrate. We are going to abstain, because we understand that the good will that you put in or the good background that you have in raising it have nothing to do with the text of the articles that you propose, with the brevity of these articles, with your conciseness - which sometimes you say is the best, but here it takes a lot more than putting on the table to deal with the case - and, of course, there is something else that I imagine you will be aware of: this is going to last two televisions, because you are going to go and go to the Parliament of Catalonia, I will go to my house, but many of these gentlemen will want to repeat and it will be those who will see next year or in the next legislature that this can be discussed, provided that some group has proposed it, because, regardless of whether the People's Party is going to say that it is not - I imagine - as it has done in almost a hundred of the proposals for law that have been put forward in this legislature, of which I believe that it has been adopted six, because it was its initiative or of other groups that it is not very much to say that it is a promise. I feel that this can happen, but I believe that we will have to wait for a new legislature, where the Members who succeed us continue to raise our awareness of this problem and look for the most appropriate formulas with all the aspects surrounding the arms trade that exists in Spain and in other countries. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Morlan. I must say that I have received with sadness his statement that he is leaving this Congress. It has been many years to work together, each in its own group, and to collaborate on many issues. Really and heartily, I wish you the best. Thank you very much, Mr. Morlan. [[Applauds]] For the People's Group, Mrs Fabra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Nuet, Spain has a long and recognized track record in controlling exports of defence and dual-use materials. Organic Law 3/1992 introduced for the first time into our legal system administrative offences and offences in the area of smuggling for defence and dual-use materials, in the same terms as were later included in Organic Law 12/1995 and amended by Organic Law 6/2011. As regards the specific legislation on the control of foreign trade in this type of material, Law 53/2007, developed by the regulation on the control of foreign trade in defence material, other material and dual-use products and technologies, adopted the same year in which the said law entered into force, entered into force at the beginning of 2008. This regulation has been subject to successive amendments, the last of which occurred in August last year on the occasion of the entry into force of Royal Decree 679/2014 in order to introduce the necessary changes in the regulation of this type of exports, in order to complete and develop what is laid down in the Community legislation, as well as to bring our legislation into line with the signature and ratification by Spain of the Arms Trade Treaty approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations. Article 7.1(c) of the Royal Decree applies the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty concerning prohibited transfers and parameters used in the assessment of exports. Spain applied the provisions of these articles provisionally before the entry into force of the treaty, which did not take place until the fiftieth instrument of ratification was deposited and after the ninety days provided for in its article 22. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we were the first country in the world to explicitly and literally collect in its national legislation the golden rule of the treaty, which, as you know, prohibits the authorization of arms transfers to commit atrocities. In accordance with current regulations, all requests for transfer of defence and dual-use materials are subject to thorough analysis, on a case-by-case basis, prior to a mandatory and binding report by the Inter-Ministerial Defence and Dual-Use Materials Board, Jimddu. Precisely, the primary purpose of this analysis is to prevent the export of defence material to destinations that do not meet the eight criteria of Common Position 2008/944, which sets out common rules governing the control of exports by the Member States of the European Union, as well as the criteria of the OSCE document on small arms and light weapons, among other important resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly. As is well known, the Spanish control system fully assumes the commitments made by Spain within the main international control and non-proliferation forums, such as the Wassenaar Arrangement, the Zangger Committee, the missile technology control regime, the Nuclear Suppliers Group and also the Australia Group. As Mr Nuet knows, Jimddu, made up of representatives of the ministries of Presidency, Foreign Affairs, Defence, Economy, Finance, Interior and Industry, meets regularly to inform, I repeat, on a mandatory and binding basis, every request for transfer, the authorization of which is the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Trade in accordance with the eight criteria of which we have just spoken. All of this is reported in detail to this House through the Defence Committee - the last appearance, if I recall correctly, took place on 10 June - and I would like to recall that the Government is bringing the Secretary of State for Trade. I say this because of the remarks that some spokesman from some parliamentary group has made to the Minister of Defence. I would like to recall that it is not one of its responsibilities to authorize the sale of defence material or to negotiate such treaties. Two weeks before that appearance, the report on Spanish statistics on the export of defence materials, other materials and dual-use products and technologies, for 2014, which provides a comprehensive analysis of the transfers made in this exercise, as well as a report on the degree of compliance with the recommendations presented by the parliamentary groups in October 2013, had been forwarded to this House. By the way, I take the opportunity to recall that it was practically total. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known and acknowledged by all the parliamentary groups - it has been done today in this House - and also by the non-governmental organizations, to which my group also wishes to thank for the valuable and useful work that they are doing in this area, which we have a legal framework and transparency and information practices that place us among the most advanced in the world. Spain participates actively in all international fora and takes the commitments made in them with rigour and diligence and remains in the European consensus on the criteria for export control, without ever having maintained a divergent position on which all the Member States of the European Union maintain. Our country, ladies and gentlemen, requires the authorization of the export and registration of dual-use operators and our legislation already provides with complete force that they must be denied - and I quote textually - when there are rational indications that the materials can be used in actions that disturb peace, stability or security at the global or regional level, that they can exacerbate tensions or latent conflicts, that they can be used in a manner contrary to due respect and the inherent dignity of the human being for the purposes of internal repression or in situations of violation of human rights, that they have as their destination countries with evidence of diversions of transferred materials or that they may violate the international commitments made by Spain. In addition, our existing legislation requires that the existence of such rational indications be determined by the reports issued by international bodies in which Spain participates, the reports of human rights bodies and other United Nations agencies, the information provided by renowned organizers and research centres in the field of development, disarmament and human rights, as well as the best practices, the most up-to-date ones described in the user guide to the European Union code of good conduct in the field of arms exports. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously our current legislation obliges the refusal of export applications when the limitations of international law are violated. We are among the countries that offer in a transparent manner detailed information on these types of transactions, as is acknowledged, I insist, by all parliamentary groups and also by non-governmental organizations. Spain has control bodies that are not uncommonly the first to react, even preventively, as has happened when some type of conflict is detected that makes the authorization of exports of Spanish defence and dual-use materials unreasonable. This is demonstrated by the fact that in some cases we have even come to advance the decisions of the European Union in the adoption of these precautionary measures. All this is something that seems to ignore the proposal of law of the Group of the Plural Left, in whose explanatory statement and historical relationship surprisingly forgets our legislative framework and resorts to Fra Bartolomé de las Casas. Ladies and gentlemen, certainly De las Casas was a precursor to modern international law, a strong defender of human rights, but we do not need to go that far to confirm that we already have a legal framework that forms a system of control of transfers of defence and dual-use material that is advanced and consistent with our international commitments and with our status as a Member State of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the unilateral application of the automatic sanction system contained in article 3 of the proposed law, unwarranted in the light of international law, apart from the fact that it could be interpreted by the affected State as an act of hostility or reprisal, could be understood, by not having international legal support, as a violation of existing international treaties and giving rise to the corresponding consequences and responsibilities, as the spokesman for UPyD also pointed out in his intervention. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we are debating today does not consider my group to be able to contribute to improving our control system, which, as I say, is very advanced, as this Member has wanted to demonstrate throughout her speech. That is why my group will vote against the inclusion of this non-legislative proposal, not without wishing them much luck to Members who, like me, will not attend the next elections and very well to those who remain in these seats. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fabra. I thank you for your last words. I am convinced that whatever your destiny is, it will be a bright future.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u22	We turn to item II of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union concerning the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage. Mr Campuzano has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. We present this non-legislative proposal urging the Government to increase the interprofessional minimum wage and we do so weeks before the Government has to make the decision that will mark the minimum wage for next year. It is therefore a non-legislative proposal with all procedural meaning, because it is good that we discuss it now, at the beginning of October and at the end of the session. Surely when the government approves the minimum wage for 2016 this House will be dissolved. We present this non-legislative proposal convinced that raising the minimum wage is part of an employment policy to promote a fair, sustained and sustainable recovery. We have for some time already argued in the House that the period of wage devaluation, which was essential for dealing with the crisis, must end. Indeed, in collective bargaining, after the agreement of the social partners, stakeholders - employers and workers - are already moving in that direction of wage increases, in a moderate way, but marking the end of this wage devaluation. We are also convinced that the costs of the crisis were poorly distributed, the costs of the crisis were borne by workers through the destruction of employment and through the freezing and wage cuts, but we believe that at a time of economic recovery we must strive to better distribute that growth. In this logic it makes sense to raise the minimum wage and also to do so on the horizon that we put forward in that initiative. We know that Spain - and the OECD has repeatedly reminded us - has been one of the States of the European Union where inequalities have increased the most during the crisis. It makes sense, therefore, that when we face the problem of inequality, we choose to concentrate our efforts to reduce it through employment and wages, in a context in which the burden of wage income on the whole income of the Spanish State in recent years - and also before the crisis - was losing weight in favour of the rest of the income. It is good to remember that 57% of households live in family units with incomes below €1,100. That is the reality in which this initiative must be understood, convinced - on an issue that is always the subject of academic and political debate - that moderate increases in the minimum wage do not affect employment, but that they can stimulate investment by enterprises in the training of their workers and in technological investment to improve the productivity of such enterprises. Moreover, there are those who argue that wage and minimum wage increases can also help to curb the process of emigration of the most skilled workers and to be less attractive to workers who aspire to lower wages, bearing in mind that the change in the productive model, which must be consistent at the end of the crisis, also requires an emphasis on wage improvements, the ability to compete by offering quality goods and services, and not competing in low wages. Under this logic we must also understand this initiative, being aware that the minimum wage existing in Spain does not resist comparison with the minimum wages of the States in our environment. The Spanish State's wealth share does not justify that the minimum wage in Spain is almost one hundred per cent lower than the minimum wages in other countries. Today the minimum wage is at 648 euros per month in fourteen pay, 757 euros in twelve pay. In the case of two-person households, this amount is below the poverty line and has been virtually frozen since 2011. It is clear that this measure, that of increasing the interprofessional minimum wage, in the package of measures to combat inequalities and in the package of measures to work for the improvement of the production system, is one more. This is not much less the magic measure that can cope with those two objectives, but in that logic it seems to us to be an absolutely essential measure. The specific proposal put to you by the representatives of the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia is to achieve, within a four-year period, an amount of the minimum interprofessional wage equivalent to 60% of the average wage. In today's figures that would mean a salary of about 1,000 euros a month. I insist on what I said to you a few moments ago, that moderate increases in the minimum wage in a gradual process of time are not contrary to job creation or maintenance, and that increases in the minimum wage may be essential in improving productivity and in the efforts of companies to invest in the training of their workers and in investment in technology. We are also convinced that the constitutional mandates of article 35, the right to adequate remuneration, are not met today with that low and embarrassing minimum wage in our environment and that the demand for a decent economy, in a society we want decent, requires opening the way for the improvement of the interprofessional minimum wage. This is the position of Democratic Convergence and we would like to see the whole of the House's groups join us in it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Two amendments have been tabled to this non-legislative proposal. First of all, Mr Calduch has the floor for his defence by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Our parliamentary group is looking forward to the introduction of this non-law proposal to increase the inter-professional minimum wage, and it is doing so because not long ago, just before the summer, we were introducing an amendment to also improve a non-law proposal that was already seeking to increase the inter-professional minimum wage. That is to say, we agree on the substance of the question, where, for reasons which have been mentioned here of an economic nature but also of social justice, it is necessary to correct, by increasing it, the inter-professional minimum wage in order to compensate for the unfair, unequally unfair cost of its application, of the economic crisis, and because there are also three possible economic causes that could be argued in order to oppose this request for an increase in the inter-professional minimum wage which falls by its weight. One of the economic causes for raising the interprofessional minimum wage could become a harmful weapon would be to generate inflation, because we all know that inflation ends up damaging the stability of an economy. It is not the case of the Spanish economy, where we know that if we have a problem it is not that of inflation, but that of deflation, that is, prices below the increase of zero percent. By the way, this increase in the inter-professional minimum wage would not have any significance, in any case it would have health, because curiously the policies being launched by the governments of countries such as France or Germany or by others in the European Union or by the International Monetary Fund argue that a slight controlled inflation stimulates demand for consumption and therefore production. There's no problem out there. With regard to unemployment, it has already been pointed out that one of the reasons why the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage could be economically detrimental is that, by increasing labour costs, that would delay recruitment. As has already been pointed out, experience shows that this is not true. What has not been said by my colleague Carles Campuzano is that the reason why that is not so is because it is economically necessary to assess whether the increase in labour costs ends up being assumed by the increase in demand or consumption that is generated because there is more purchasing capacity, because when that is the case the employer continues to hire despite the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage and labour costs. [[The lady]] The third cause would be loss of competitiveness with respect to exports. In this respect, I have to say that more than 80% of Spanish exports go to our European partners, and in the countries of the main European partners to which Spanish exports go, for example in the automotive sector, and so on, like France or Germany, the interprofessional minimum wages, as has already been pointed out - when they do, because Germany did not have them - have increased much more than ours throughout the period of the crisis. Then there are no economic reasons not to face an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage which also fulfils a function of social justice. The only glue we put to the non-law proposal of the Convergence and Union Group is that it is imprecise. I don't know if you do because you already know that this is going to have a poor effective journey and it's more of a witness issue. We did quantify. Exactly, our amendment called for a 5% increase in the inter-branch minimum wage, because we thought it was economically feasible with the criteria I explained to you. The proposal we are being brought with us remains alicorta, first because it does not quantify, says this generic that it should be set at 60% of the average in four years. In four years no one knows where the Spanish economy is going to be. I'm closing, Madam President. Secondly, it imposes a negotiating conditionality. No, no, The interprofessional minimum wage is not negotiated, established by the Government or by Parliament and applied. Collective bargaining must be based on the interprofessional minimum wage to improve it. The parties cannot be left to negotiate because employers would try to lower the inter-professional minimum wage and trade unions to raise it. Finally, Mr Campuzano, as far as your four-year application is concerned, do you really think this makes sense at this point with which you are falling? Let us take advantage of the economic recovery to implement it in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u26	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our group is going to give its support to this non-convergence i union law proposal to improve the minimum wage, among other things because we have been pleading for this throughout the legislature, sometimes alone or almost alone, among other reasons, because behind this freezing of the minimum wage is the emergence of new pockets of poverty, which comes to be called poor workers, that is, people who work and who do not reach poverty levels, among other things, because, contrary to what is said, that is not good for the economy. The Spanish economy has long been affected by what happens to other countries, that when you have some kind of product, something too much and easily, you call it cheap oil or call yourself cheap workers, the economy becomes idle. That is also what has happened to our economy. Therefore, our agreement is in that sense, which also goes literally to the goal of achieving compliance with the European Social Charter in the sense that the minimum wage should be 60% of the average wage. Anyway, let me tell you that I am frankly surprised by the proposal of the Group of the Convention and Union. At a certain point, it seemed to me to see Mr Carles Campuzano with the image of Saint Paul falling from the horse on the way to Damascus, because at this point in life, at the end of the parliamentary term, with what the Convergence i de Unito Group has come to vote and defend in this House, they discover the negative impact in social and economic terms of the freezing of the minimum wage is the most similar to a conversion. However, it is never too late if bliss is good, as long as it is sincere and, therefore, as long as it is sincere that conversion and the abandonment of the theology of wage depreciation as a competitive factor, because, let us not forget, the minimum wage and its freezing is not an isolated thing, it is not a loose arrow in the middle of the field. It is part of a global strategy during this legislature, driven by the People's Party government and enthusiastically supported by the Convergence and Union Group. It is the strategy of seeking wage depreciation, not as a cyclical factor but as a structural factor. That has been one of the pillars of the very hard adjustment policies that this Government has had with the vote of Convergence and Union. It is not that in order to deal with the crisis the whole income had to be accommodated and circumstantially and cyclically the wages had to grow less than inflation, which was a hypothesis. No, no, This was within the reach of this country, for example, with the income pact signed at the beginning of 2012 by trade union and business organizations, which was despised and crushed by Mr. Rajoy's government, and, as an alternative, a labor reform that is behind this process of wage degradation. The degradation of the interprofessional minimum wage is only part of the wage offensive. It has much to do with a strategy of taking advantage of economic crises to impose discipline on workers in the form of adjustment, not only in their wages but in their working conditions, and not in order to impose them temporarily, but to impose them structurally. What is currently further deteriorating the wages of workers is not just the freezing of the minimum wage for the lowest categories, which is undoubtedly affecting very negatively. It is a labour reform that has aimed to destroy the ability of workers to freely negotiate their working conditions, manipulating them in that right. It is a very clear attempt to place workers, their trade union organizations and their instruments of collective bargaining in worse conditions than they had before the labour reform. Four torpedoes launched the labour reform of the People's Party and Convergence i de Unió against collective bargaining: the possibility of changing working conditions, including wages, unilaterally by means of Article 41; the possibility of unilaterally taking off from what was signed by a collective agreement, without having to go to collective bargaining; the primacy of the company agreement over the sectoral agreement, as an element of productive outsourcing, which facilitates productive outsourcing to exaggerated extremes and social dumping strategies between companies; and lastly, the disappearance of the ultra-activity of the agreements and the fall in force, which has led, inter alia, to a drop in the level of coverage of collective bargaining to a mere 50 %. Those are the four torpedoes and that is behind the fall in wages, because ultimately there is a phenomenon in which workers who lose their jobs, when they find a new one, do so under infinitely worse conditions, in some cases even with levels of 30% less than they had. In that regard, a policy against such a structural freeze on wages should indeed be addressed in favour of workers, their rights and dignity, and in favour of the economy of that country. The economy of this country is not going to emerge from the option of low-skilled sectors as long as it continues to have something that is so available to companies, abundant, precarious and cheap labour, which is like cheap oil, which ends up doing to the idle economy and, therefore, there is no interest in making a change in the productive model. Welcome to that fall of the horse which, by the way, is not; it is not a fall of the horse. The example that best defines today's behavior of Convergence and Union is something we know very well in Catalonia, is what we call the descent of the train at the last station. It is the typical Pujolina, Pujolian or Pujolist culture, which consists in that when the train is about to crash there is always someone - Pujol or those who have learned from it - who in the last station get off and let the train crash. Well, those two things, which are what define this non-law proposal at this time, do not prevent us, as we share that goal, from supporting it. However, we support it with an amendment, which implies that the minimum wage freeze is accompanied by the Iprem freeze, which affects access to income and welfare subsidies of a very large size of the population. We have therefore tabled that amendment. By the way, put to do things that are in the hands of Convergència i de Unió - at least at the moment - it would not be too much, Mr. Campuzano, to recommend to your partners of the Catalan government that they also improve and not freeze - they have frozen it since 2011-...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u28	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u29	...the Catalonian sufficiency income indicator, lest you give advice to others and do not apply them to yourself. In any case, I already know what I will have to propose soon in the Parliament of Catalonia, because, as you know - you do not need to cry for me, total I have only been here four years - I also say goodbye. I hope there's someone left to open the lights in the next legislature. In any case, I will continue to follow you, not without nostalgia, not without melancholy, from my responsibility in the Parliament of Catalonia. I hope you haven't done much harm by falling off the horse on the way to Damascus. Welcome to your theological conversion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u30	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. Mr Coscubala, indeed, you have been four years, but four years very intense. [[Laughter]] I wish you luck in your future in the Catalan Parliament and your common sense is also noted there. Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. [[- Mr Coscubala Conesa sanctifies himself. - Laughs. - Rumors.]] Please... Let's move on to the position-fixing shift. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mr Urbina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Amaiur has set our position on this subject on a number of occasions and we have already said that it is more appropriate for us, when we talk about the interprofessional minimum wage, to talk about the decent minimum wage and that it is exercised as such by approaching 60% of the average wage referred to in the European Social Charter. In part, the non-legislative proposal that is being proposed today approaches this direction, so Amaiur will vote in favour of it, even though we do not share the explanatory statement made in this GNP. People must be made clear, and this proposal does not. In this respect, it has been very interesting for the honourable Member to speak before me, since he has, among other things, placed why we are at this time in the inter-professional minimum wage quota in which we are in. It is no coincidence that it is half the quota that would be appropriate to say that there is a decent minimum wage. This is a consequence of the policies of the Government - of the present Government but also of the past - which have prioritized other types of interests than those of the people. Economic and fiscal policies aimed at prioritizing the interests of large economic elites, bankers and arms companies have been implemented; as I said, an entire economic elite far from the interests of people. These economic elites have been empowered, the shadow of which has been legislated and continues to be legislated in the sense to which I have already referred, in economic and fiscal policies. These are the real reasons why we find ourselves, as I said, with an interprofessional minimum wage which is half of what should be considered worthy, which is far from the percentages that exist in the European Union. This also has a lot to do with democracy, with the democratic deficit of the Spanish State. Political leaders and elites continue to try to maintain the current status quo that allows them to safeguard these economic and political interests. There is the real reason for this type of policy and for the interprofessional minimum wage - among other social issues - to be as it is today; and all this, in addition to the interests of citizens, of people. As long as this state of affairs is not changed, the same priorities will remain, the reality will remain the same. There is the break-up that must also be made in this area. In Euskal Herria this translates, in our opinion, into sovereignty for our people; sovereignty in which it is the people who are empowered, and not the economic elites, to be able to decide and adopt all those measures that people, thinking of their interests, consider appropriate, among other things, to adopt a decent minimum wage as it cannot otherwise be, since, as previously stated, the status quo, the state of things, the rulers of one colour or another continue to try to respond to other types of interests than those of the people. As long as this doesn't change, everything will remain the same. In any case, the Convergence proposal points to the direction that Amaiur defends from a decent minimum wage for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u32	Thank you, Mr. Urbina. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are attending numerous plenary sessions in which important activities of the historic and new parliamentarism of the State are being fired. Some of us will soon. I am sorry because they are relevant assets, they are people who have contributed a lot to state policy; and from a perspective of concern, or based on concern, the new ones, those who arrive in the next legislature, are going to force the presidencies, who replace you, to a management probably more difficult than that which has been achieved so far. This is a small relief that I have allowed myself to preamble, Madam President. In connection with the initiative put forward by Mr Campuzano, Mr Coscubiela has made an invocation of a kind of Saulian conversion, and that is not the case. Mr Campuzano has presented this same initiative on three occasions, which I remember, at least; perhaps it is due to the feeling or agnostic sense of the positions of Mr Coscubaila and his party. No, Mr Campuzano is not a person who is not inclined to increase an inter-professional minimum wage that in the Spanish state lines in what we might consider to be an almost embarrassing or shameful amount. The minimum wage in the Spanish State is EUR 648 per month; in Germany, EUR 1,473 per month; in France, EUR 1,458 per month; in Belgium, EUR 1,502 per month; in the United Kingdom, EUR 1,379 per month; in Ireland, EUR 1,426 per month; in Luxembourg, EUR 1,923 per month, etc. We are talking about the minimum wage of the more developed, more cohesive countries, where social inequalities are smaller. We have to take into account the complaint recently made by the OECD regarding the Spanish State that it is the country where inequalities are occurring most intensely; inequalities which also refer to the wage gap, to wage deflation, to the wage devaluation under which the labour reform adopted in 2012 is relevant, which has led to the possibility of disconnecting from the remuneration clauses of collective agreements unilaterally by the employer, the devaluation of collective bargaining in the labour market, the possibility of wage clauses being adjusted to the in peius requirements of companies, etc. Of course, this labour reform has contributed significantly to a devaluation of the interprofessional minimum wage and has consolidated a productive model that is not that of the countries in our economic environment, the most prosperous, the least unequal, with higher wages and with an even higher interprofessional minimum wage. Mr. Campuzano has explained it well. A moderate increase, an agreed increase in the inter-professional minimum wage has no negative effect on employment; however, a decent inter-professional minimum wage has an effect on employment because not a few workers receive the inter-professional minimum wage but many. Many high-skilled workers receive the inter-professional minimum wage, particularly young high-skilled workers. This leads to the existence of a low interprofessional minimum wage, disinterest in short, medium and long-term investments in vocational training and in the improvement of research, development and innovation, as well as in everything that contributes to strengthening the elements that can make our economy more competitive. On the other hand, there are the requirements that are linked or derive from the Constitution itself, and article 35 and the sufficiency of wages have already been cited. The Spanish State's single-person interprofessional minimum wage, which is at the poverty line of EUR 648 per month, as we have already mentioned, as defined by Eurostat as the poverty line; but already in a family of more than one person, it is below the poverty line. From that perspective, we are failing to comply with the requirement of article 35 and the sufficiency it preaches with regard to remunerations this precept of the Constitution. In addition, there is another requirement, which is that of the European Social Charter, also mentioned by Mr Campuzano, which states that the interprofessional minimum wage cannot be less than 60% of the average wages of the State or a country. It is clear that the interprofessional minimum wage in the Spanish State, 648 euros per month...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u34	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u35	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. ...is significantly lower than these requirements of the European Social Charter. It is reasonable to call on the social partners progressively to increase the inter-professional minimum wage. It is legally reasonable because it is the social partners who have to agree on such clauses within the normative content of collective agreements. Therefore, we are going to support this motion, which is a requirement of social justice, of economic growth and is in line with the theses - with this I conclude, Madam President - of the recently named Nobel Prize in Economics, Mr Deaton - Keynesian wherever there are them - which states that the policies of austerity, of wage impoverishment, of wage deflation are contradictory to wealth, growth and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u36	Mr. Olabarría, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u38	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Barahona.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Campuzano, during this parliamentary term the Socialist Parliamentary Group has also repeatedly presented various parliamentary initiatives calling for an increase in the inter-professional minimum wage in our country and for the progressive recovery of purchasing capacity, in addition to achieving that objective set out in the European Social Charter. In short: the claim is clearly to dignify this interprofessional minimum wage and of course to fulfil our commitments as a country. The proposal presented by the Catalonian Democratic Convergence Group affects and abounds in these proposals, which is why I am already advancing that our group will also support it. Throughout the development of this non-legislative proposal, arguments are being put forward that we certainly share; they are also reiterated because during the legislature on many occasions we have extruded them. We still consider it important to make it clear clearly that the minimum interprofessional wage in Spain does not meet the minimum living conditions of workers and their families. This is not just a statement by the Socialist Group or the opposition groups, but it is evidenced by all the available data and reports that address and assess the reality of European minimum wages. I will not focus on data, because we have them in our own explanatory statement for the non-legislative proposal and they have been made clear in this debate, but our country's interprofessional minimum wage is well below that European objective to which we have also referred. The Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe, which is the body responsible for verifying whether the Member States comply with the obligations arising from the European Social Charter, which Spain has clearly subscribed to in its report, published in January 2015, makes it clear that our country, among other non-compliances, is moving away from that European objective. The huge gap between the Spanish interprofessional minimum wage and that of the most developed countries in Europe that have it - Mr Campuzano referred to a gap of around one hundred per cent - certainly does not correspond to the distance that we can maintain in terms of economic development and per capita gross domestic product, that is to say according to the level of wealth in Spain. The inter-professional minimum wage could and must be substantially higher simply to converge with the levels acceptable to those of our neighbours and European partners. It's a matter of political will. Both in years of economic boom and in years of severe crisis, with Socialist Party governments the interprofessional minimum wage has risen. In December 2003, the interprofessional minimum wage was 460 euros per month and in 2011 the PSOE left it at 641 euros per month, i.e. 181 euros more; in seven years it rose almost 40%. In years of economic boom, with the governments of the People's Party, the interprofessional minimum wage is barely rising and in years of crisis it consolidates its loss of purchasing power; it is data. Aznar found a minimum wage of 390 euros/month and, after his self-appointed and complacent economic miracle, left him at 460 euros; that is, in two legislatures, eight years, he rose him by 70 euros. Rajoy the first thing he did was freeze it and by 2015 he increased it by 3 euros, 0.5%; it's political will and it's ideology, it's not crisis. In fact, the freezing of this neoliberalism, which is in the DNA of the People's Party Government, is having a negative impact not only on the guarantee of sufficiency and distribution of wealth demanded by articles 35.1 and 131 of the Constitution, to which reference has also been made, but also on the minimum wage for work; it is also particularly serious and worrisome at a time when corporate profits and executive salaries are increasing, while our young people and workers seeking employment are getting increasingly precarious and worse paid contracts. In fact, the freezing also has direct effects on the income of the social security system, as this wage is indicative of the increase in the minimum bases, as you all know, with effects on the projection of workers' working lives and on the sustainability of our social protection system, an issue that my group is extremely concerned about. Ladies and gentlemen, the rise in the minimum wage and, in a broader sense, the increase in wage incomes in our country - Mr Coscubiela has specifically referred to this - must be done for justice and for the economy...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u40	Mrs. Rodriguez Barahona.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u41	Yeah. ... to close and reverse the deep inequality that has been opened up in Spanish society. There's something else, and I'm done with this, Madam President. The rise in the interprofessional minimum wage must also be done with dialogue, with real and useful social dialogue. The Government has consistently ignored and ignored the importance of the fundamental principle of consultation and participation of the social partners by reducing it to a mere procedure covering the file. A process has not been carried out to ensure full consultation and participation of the social partners on an equal basis, which is mandatory prior to the approval by the Government of the inter-professional minimum wage; therefore, the Rajoy Government has breached, breached - another further breach - Article 4.2 of the Convention 131...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u42	Mrs. Rodriguez Barahona, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u43	Thank you. Yeah, I'm done right now, president.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u44	No, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u45	... of the International Labour Organization on the fixing of minimum wages, as claimed by the trade union confederations of UGT and the Workers' Commissions in the complaint submitted to that international body in the current financial year 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, the government that leaves the ballot box on 20 December will be the one that will have to set the minimum wage for 2016, and will have to do so in addition to respecting at all times...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u46	Mrs. Rodriguez Barahona.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u47	... this principle of consultation and involvement of the social partners.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u48	I'm sorry, but it has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u49	Yeah, that's it. I assure you, the Socialist Government will. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez Barahona. It is now the turn of the People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Gallego. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Campuzano, gentlemen of Convergence, Catalonia has not broken because the Government of Spain is offering multi-million dollar financial support at a zero interest rate. [[Applauds]] Standard and Poor's has just again lowered the credit rating of Catalan debt to the trash bond category. These are two data. That Convergence and Union come here to give lessons in economic policy seems grotesque to me. The economic situation to which they have brought their colleagues to Catalonia is not precisely to give lessons here in economics. On the other hand, the policy of the People's Party has yielded good results; there are the indicators, there is the street and there is the opinion of all international bodies. [[Laughter]] Demagoguery and laughter do not create employment, nor do they believe that certain lords are dedicated to working exclusively to break a country in two because you govern, what is said to govern, is not that you govern much in Catalonia. In relation to your proposal, I would like to make some reflections because I have seen quite a few inaccuracies in the text of the proposal. Firstly, the fact that the minimum wage has to reach a certain percentage is a recommendation that comes from the Charter of Social Rights but is not an obligation imposed by that Charter. Secondly, do not confuse it because it is talking about the interprofessional minimum wage as if it were affecting all wages, and this does not affect more than 150,000 people in this country, who are of course many but who do not reach 1% of the 17 million contributors in our country. One reflection: if the government raised the inter-branch minimum wage by more or less 300 euros, which is what I have calculated would be to reach 60%, would not the wage moderation that has been agreed between employers and trade unions in recent years be violated? Trade unions are the first to bet on wage moderation, as are employers. His proposal is directly burdened with this negotiation between employers and trade unions, because it does not seem reasonable for the Government to replace the philosophy of business and trade unions. I ask myself one question: do you think that if we were to increase the cost of labour to small businesses by around 40% they would hire more people? If we go to the corner bakery and we tell the lady to hire a gentleman but it's going to cost him 40% more, will she have many incentives to hire more people? Have you talked to the companies? Because the opinion of small businesses is just in the opposite direction. Therefore, what you are proposing goes against the interests of those who are going to hire people. There are still a lot of people in this country who need to be hired, we still have a very high unemployment figure, and that is precisely what needs to be solved; we are not at a stage where we can raise that minimum inter-professional wage of around 300 euros, as you propose, because going to 60% of the average wage would mean more or less that figure. Secondly, increasing wages without taking productivity into account is not done in any country in the world; without taking into account the context of the economy in general or taking inflation into account, it is not done in any country in the world. Are we going to raise it by a little percent because one day we saw it here, regardless of how high the cost of living and inflation in this country is? I insist, it doesn't seem reasonable. If this proposal of yours were to be implemented, how many companies would try to reduce the working hours of your workers? Would there be that temptation or not? Would there be a temptation to reduce wages to the highest categories of work? Would there be or wouldn't there be? If companies see that their labour costs increase by 30% or 40%, would they not impact this increase in their fixed costs on their products? Wouldn't we end up paying all the customers in Spain that ascent? What you're proposing is not that you create employment, it destroys it. I am convinced that your proposal is well-intentioned, it looks very good; on Twitter they will applaud you and me not, they will say that Convergence i de Unió and the rest of the parties want to raise the minimum wage and those of the PP, which are very bad - bad they - say no. We have to do a little more in-depth analysis instead of this short and shallow step that I think the headline is looking for, which is very politically suggestive but certainly not positive for our economy. There's a lot of doubt. With regard to training, would it encourage young people to continue in the training process? I don't think so. There is debate, it is not so clear and there are many specialists who say otherwise. We shall therefore vote against it. If I may, Madam President, I shall take these fifteen seconds to say good-bye to all of you. It has been eight years as a Member of this House, today is certainly the last time I have come up to speak and I want to acknowledge the work of all your ladies and gentlemen of all political parties. I have seen that the work of recent years has been, as a general rule, conscientious, professional, often unjustly underestimated. Especially my party mates would like to thank you for so many hours of work and show you the affection I have for almost all of them because we have worked side by side on many issues. We are united in the search for the general interest of our country and the unity of Spain, which is one of the things that I am going to defend in the Parliament of Catalonia and where life takes me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u52	Thank you, Mr Gallego. I was told earlier by President Posada that the day goes by goodbyes. The truth is that yes, and I feel it from my heart; I feel all the things that have happened before, because I believe - as Mr Olabarria said very well - that experience is also a degree, and starting from scratch can be very complicated. In any case, my colleague, Mr Gallego, to whom I have special affection because he has shown common sense, capacity for work and capacity for sacrifice, is going to another Parliament, to the Catalan Parliament, which needs a great deal of common sense, and if I have wished Mr Coscubaila, imagine, Mr Gallego, how I wish you. [[Applauds]] Mr Campuzano, only and exclusively to say yes or no to the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u53	From the common sense that is also practiced in the Parliament of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u54	Yes or no to the amendments, Mr Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u55	From the common sense, we accept Mr Coscubiela's amendment and we do not accept the UPyD amendment. Thank you, Madam President, from the common sense. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u56	Thank you very much, but always do it with common sense. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS AND OF IU, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL AND THE LORD'S KEY BALDOVI, RELATING TO VERIFICATION OF THE GREAT EFFECTS THAT ARE CAUSED BY THE DIFFERENT POLICIES COMMITTED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NATION, BY THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 20/2012, AS WELL AS THE RESTRICTIVE MEASURES OF THE STATE'S GENERAL BUDGET LAW FOR THE PUBLIC BUSINESS SECTOR, DEPENDING ON THE GROUP OF THE SPANISH SOCIETY OF INDUSTRIAL PARTICIPATIONS [[SEPI]] [[File number 162/001260]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u57	We move on to the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist and the Plural Left parliamentary groups and Mr Baldoví, concerning the reversal of the serious effects that are causing the different policies put in place by the Government of the nation, through the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, as well as the restrictive measures of the Law on General Budgets of the State for the public business sector that depends on the Group of the Spanish Society of Industrial Participations, SEPI. For your presentation, first of all, by the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we are presenting today seeks to counter the effects that the restrictive measures implemented by the Government since 2012 have had on the public business sector under SEPI. With this initiative we also want to respond to the demands made by the representatives of FITAG-UGT, MCA-UGT and the Workers' Commissions of Industry, some of which accompany us in the rostrum and I take advantage, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to greet them and welcome them. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, SEPI manages the state-owned public business sector, which comprises sixteen companies directly and mostly involved, whose workforce in 2014 was around 73,000 people, 7,449 fewer than in 2012; professionals belonging to companies from different sectors: postal service, communication, shipbuilding, agricultural and environmental sector, food, nuclear energy and mining, among others. In addition, it has direct minority holdings in nine companies and indirect holdings in more than 100 companies and diverging holdings which must be managed in the public interest and which must combine the objectives of being economically and socially profitable; two objectives which in many cases conflict and which, in order to be attended to, the group has a sufficient margin of autonomy to be managed efficiently. But this desirable efficient management has shone by its absence. The Government has not complied either economically or socially. The Government has imposed measures that have significantly affected the organizational structure of many SEPI-dependent companies, without taking into account rational criteria for action to ensure their future projection. Measures such as the restrictions of Decree-Law 20/2012 and those provided for in successive budget laws, which involve wage freezing, freezing of internal promotion, no replacement of staff, slowing down and halting investment or political interventionism in the senior management of their enterprises; or decisions not guided by professional criteria that have involved political interventionism in the senior management of some of the participating enterprises. Measures that have had the most significant effects, among others, decapitalisation of the human factor, staff ageing, relaxation of risk prevention measures, uncertainty about the future viability of some companies, as well as weakening their ability to access new business opportunities. In fact, the Government has renounced the optimal and rigorous management of resources that really contribute to wealth creation, placing all its efforts at precarious labour relations, bringing instability and uncertainty to the workforce. And while Minister Soria's official speech talks about strengthening industry, with this way of proceeding the only thing they have managed is to weaken even more industrial enterprises that are of vital importance in their respective enclave areas, in terms of contributing to the gross industrial value added and to the generation of employment; areas to which the Government ignores and ignores. It is not surprising that the weight of industry on GDP continues to decrease in 2014, according to the latest data reviewed by the national accounts published by the INE. We are aware that at this stage of the legislature, where decisions are scarcely forthcoming, little can be asked of the Government of the People's Party, which from the beginning has renounced the development and implementation of a strategic industrial policy in the medium and long term shared with the autonomous communities, with the economic and social actors and with all the political groups represented in this House; a renunciation of a shared industrial strategy and consensus with Brussels. The Government's agenda presented in the last tranche of 2014, without previous quantifiable targets, is evidenced as a mere propaganda resource and reflects a project with an expiry date; the same expiry date as that of the People's Party Government: December 2015. We just need to see the follow-up report to check it out. They say that most of the measures have been completed in almost a year, but in reality the problems remain and the challenges for the industrial sector, after so much cutting in investment, infrastructure and human capital, are still greater. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to look for paths of encounter and pacts in order to achieve strategic action that will enable us to overcome short-term policies that are profoundly wrong by reducing wages and that weaken confidence and credibility in the future. We need realistic and consensual action plans in a climate of social dialogue. The consequences of the policies carried out by the Government of the People's Party have only led to the judicialization of labour relations, the defencelessness and loss of legal guarantees generated in the social sector and the establishment of a public enterprise organization that is not conducive to its consolidation as a generator of economic wealth and decent and secure employment. Faced with these types of policies, we call for measures to ensure the stability and efficiency of the public business sector, strengthening its organizational structures, improving its management, its ability to compete technologically with well-sized staff, avoiding the current deterioration of working conditions, ensuring safety and prevention of risks to people and the environment. We aim to enhance the capabilities that our highly qualified staff can offer, developing high value-added products in an international context and in a highly demanding global competition framework. We also intend to take extraordinary staffing renewal measures to prevent the ability of public companies to access new business opportunities, a claim that we have already reflected during the processing of the General State Budgets for 2016. But, ladies and gentlemen, the legislature is exhausted and the government and its policies too. And in a context in which the country continues to depend on external factors that make it very vulnerable, and with a government looking the other way, we wonder: why so much effort and sacrifice on the part of the workers, to finish the legislature with more deficit, with more debt, with a higher or similar level of unemployment and with the rights of the workers cut off? We will have to expect a new Government that is open to social dialogue, consensus, which is committed to science, innovation, technological capacity-building, quality, design, specialized training and the upgrading of human capital as real drivers of growth.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u59	Mrs. Blanquer, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u60	I'm done. A government that, I trust, will soon lead the Socialist Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Blanquer. In relation to the same point, by La Izquierda Plural, Mr Centella. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. If you have to hold conversations, do it outside.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to defend a non-law proposal, without much hope of convincing you, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party. At this point in the legislature, one will not fall into the naivety that the arguments will convince you of anything. However, this initiative has a clear objective, taking advantage of our last possibility of quota, and is to put them in evidence. To highlight your policy, clearly contrary to the interests of the majority; to highlight how you have abandoned the government's ability to defend our own sovereignty, and to put forward an objective that is what we want to put on the table here today, that of unlocking a situation that is tarnishing what remains of the public industrial sector. You, who defend so much - you are filled with the mouth to say it in your speeches - free enterprise and competitiveness, however, when you manage the public business sector you do it in a totally opposite way, in the most bureaucratic and uneconomic way possible. You take profitable and profitable businesses and then tie them up with your feet and hands so you can't compete in that free market that you like so much. The Government, by reducing staff, avoiding the possibility of renovating staff and applying investment cuts, does nothing more or less than make it impossible for these companies to compete in the market. They have prevented a generational relief that is typical of any company. Its policy of cuts in general for this country has been a real disaster, but for these companies it is simply suicidal. You cannot apply the cut to a company that needs investment in order to compete. You, on the other hand, in this legislature have degraded collective bargaining in all areas of working life; you have killed the possibility of real collective bargaining. Therefore, we find companies that, without investments, with reduced staffing and without renewal, you want to be competitive and have production capacity. You know that contracts are lost simply because you do not have that production capacity that would be needed with investments and adequate staffing. But in addition, you are playing with the safety of the workers and also - as in the case of El Cabril - with the safety of the general population. You know that this is so, we are not discovering anything new, but you do it for something, you do it simply and simply - and that is what we denounce in this intervention - because you have given our economic sovereignty to the troika, you have placed it in the hands of those who are deciding for you and for all of us that Spain cannot have a competitive industry, that Spain has to play a subsidiary role and that it cannot have the capacity to generate a productive economy, which is what is needed for an exit from the real, social crisis and for the benefit of the majority. Therefore, when our group presents this proposal, it does so in the sense that its policy is not that it has failed, because it does achieve the objectives that you want it to achieve, that it is to put our economy in a way dependent on other economies, but we want to show that a new model of country is needed, that on this path we will have less and less productive capacity, less quality employment, less chances that our young people will be able to work in this country in what they have studied and for what they have trained for. You are selling sovereignty to foreign hands, however much you may one day be wrapped in the red, yellow and red flag. Therefore, our proposal seeks to be incardinated in that new model of country that is needed, a model of productive economy and based on collective bargaining, which, by the way, you say you have done in other sectors of industry, but when you get to the industrial sector itself you look elsewhere. Nothing but contradictions, I repeat, which is nothing new to you, except that goal which you must put an end to the Spanish productive economy. Mrs Merkel will be very happy with your policy. It is a pity that I did not vote on 20 December, if they would not surely have one more vote. But the reality is that you will leave the government on 21 December with this country in worse condition to produce. It is clear, as I said at the outset, that we have little hope that they will assume this non-legislative proposal, but we do want to highlight it, that it is a compromise of the future, that future governments will take it into account. Today we are going to defend it three groups that I hope we can be part of the next legislature of broader majorities that can change what is being done here, that can do, as the previous spokesman has already said, that seven proposals that put forward our non-law proposal, so that there is a powerful, powerful public sector that gives work and economy to this country, which is what is needed, what we must defend. Therefore, stability must be guaranteed - one could be ashamed to have to repeat this in the rostrum - and the efficiency of the public business sector. Do you know what that means? The opposite of what they've achieved. The role played by these companies must be enhanced so that they can compete in a global competition framework that we already know is difficult. Does that ring a bell? It's the opposite of what you're doing. We must make it easier for the generational relief, which gives hope to young people, which can give them a minimal future of work in their own country and not have to emigrate as they are doing. Finally, safety and prevention of occupational and population risks must also be ensured. As you know, they are proposals that one should be ashamed to repeat at this time of the twenty-first century, but they show that his Government has not only gone in the opposite direction to the social majority of this country, but will deliver on the 20th a country in worse conditions than those found four years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u63	Thank you, Mr. Centella. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The lady]] On this day of farewell, what I can say is that I am the one who does not know whether or not they are going to repeat because it will not depend on me but on the primaries of my party and the citizens in any case. I also want to say, in case it is my last speech, that I have been fortunate enough to share a seat and the honour of sharing friendship with a great many Members of Parliament, from whom I have learned a great deal, which I hope, if I come back, will help me. Thank you very much. I say it from my heart, despite the differences I've had with many. [[Applauds]] I move on to the proposition. Public companies linked to the State Company of Industrial Participations have seen a dizzying privatization process in the last two decades, from 1996 to 2014. A total of eighty companies linked to the public sector have been privatized in whole or in part, especially by the governments of the People's Party, but also in some cases by the governments of the Socialist Party - Natural Gas, Repsol, Telefónica, Argentaria, Tabacalera or Electric Network - are names that are at the head of all - while in the companies that still remain within the group a plan is being implemented with the clear objective of degrading companies in all directions and at all levels. A clear example of this Government's willingness to maintain this poor health of companies has been its action in the company Correos. Only one fact: 14,000 fired in five years, when it has sometimes been seen that the need for this company was not to fire, but just the opposite. Let us remember, for example, the conflict in Majadahonda. The actions of this Government have shown a radical predisposition in this regard. The freezing of internal promotion, the freezing of wages, the ageing of the workforce, the halting of investments, the absence of dialogue with workers and the judicialization of labour relations have caused these enterprises to have difficulty in competing, the decapitalisation and de-equalification of the human factor of the enterprises, the absence of the necessary generational relief or the increase of discomfort and the conflictivity of the workforce. Ultimately, in many cases, with its actions or its inaction, the Government has endangered the very survival of some of these companies. Therefore, Compromís has signed this non-legislative proposal, because we understand that it calls for sensible and common sense things: to ensure the stability and efficiency of companies linked to SEPI; to make strategic decisions; to define a concrete model and not as did SEPI president Don Ramón Aguirre in his appearance, who spoke of a change of model but did not define any; to make the necessary investments to ensure the competitiveness of these companies and their continuity; to restore legal certainty; to ensure generational relief and the replacement rate; to engage in an effective social dialogue and to ensure the effective functioning of the committee to monitor collective bargaining. In short, change the direction of SEPI. I hope that in the next parliamentary term, when there is a new electoral arithmetic, some of the objectives expressed in this non-legislative proposal can be achieved. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Baloví. No amendments have been tabled to this initiative, so the Basque Group, Mr Azpiazu, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly from the seat I would like to set out the position of the Basque Group on this initiative. Go ahead with our group's intention to vote in favour of this initiative, but I must say with all the affection of the world that I do not understand what its content is in detail. It is true that the public business sector in SEPI's hands has to be managed efficiently and professionally and it has to be done well, but I think that this initiative raises general issues where it is very difficult to be against, but it is very difficult to make some progress. I think there's a lack of concreteness. It should have been raised to which sectors it is affecting, in which companies, what are the problems arising from the real decree, what are the problems that have arisen for these companies on the basis of the General Budgets of the State, etc. I am sure those who have proposed this initiative know it in all detail, but they have not explained it enough to us to know what is behind this that they want us to move. I think it is important enough to put forward in the next parliamentary term initiatives to put the state public sector in a position to compete at global level and to solve the problems that are generally manifested here - the ageing of the workforce or that investments are not paralyzed -. I believe that these are issues that need to be addressed and on which progress must be made, but I sincerely believe that we must do so with data, with knowledge, at least from our more detailed group, in which we would like to participate, because I insist that, knowing that the issue is important, we cannot understand it in its full dimension at this time. However, as I have said, we are going to vote in favour of the initiative, thinking above all that we need to continue working on these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. In line with the statement made by the representative of the Basque Group, our group also believes that the opportunity has been lost to have clarified more and in a much more concrete and rigorous manner this non-legislative proposal, which in this case is also endorsed by several parliamentary groups, which gives it, at the outset, a power of greater political and legal relevance. Perhaps the fact that it is dealt with at the last moment and with the prospect that it could be left more in a symbolic gesture than in something that could be more parliamentary, has made it remain in an approach to very general issues which, on the other hand, as formulated in the text, I do not see why it would have to be reduced to public sector enterprises linked to SEPI, since many of the issues sought in this non-legislative proposal would apply to many other public enterprises not necessarily linked to SEPI. In any case, our parliamentary group is not going to oppose it, it is going to support it. We believe that, as has already been said, this should be taken up again in the next parliamentary term, especially if, as some of the parliamentary groups that endorse this non-legislative proposal expect, they have greater responsibility for government. I say this because it is nothing that when that possible scenario comes we find that what is now presented with emphasis and support from various parliamentary groups sleeps the dream of the righteous. In this case, it wouldn't be fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Convergence and Unity Group, I have the floor, Mrs Sayós.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u70	Thank you, President. I announce that the Parliamentary Group on Democratic Convergence is going to vote in favour of this initiative and also for the Democratic Union, but not simply for different aspects to be taken into account. First of all, it is true that the macroeconomic figures of the Spanish economy show some growth as well as a revival in job creation, as the Government always says. But it is also clear that little or no progress has been made in the transformation of the productive model in these years of crisis. For example, it is growing because oil is cheaper or, at least, the buying barrel is cheaper. It is growing because the euro has been devalued, to say the least, in relation to the dollar, and this opens up the possibility of export. It is growing because Central Bank Europe is providing the economy with the necessary liquidity. And it's growing because in Spain too, wages are lower. But we must bear in mind that these short-term circumstances, at least for the past two or three years, are not going to be perpetual. For example, without going further, wages cannot continue to fall, because they can lead to much more serious problems, not only for families but also for the structure of a country, as many spokespersons have shown in this debate. What will help to really get out of the crisis is to give priority to transforming the productive model, investing in competitiveness, investing in innovation, etc. For this to happen, it is necessary to do so in the full extent of the word economy, both in the private and public sectors. Normally, these companies are more focused on the procedure than on the orientation of results. In the case of this non-legislative proposal which is being debated today, it is clear that the Government is being asked to pay more attention to SEPI from the perspective of competitiveness, and that requires more investment and more job creation. We agree that these public enterprises are strategic for Spain; I dare say that they are structural for the activity they develop and to guarantee energy supply and independence. However, the demand to improve the competitiveness of the public business sector must be matched by the demand to value if it makes sense that all the participations that SEPI has today remain public. In this sense it is also set out in the non-legislative proposal when referring to the replacement of jobs due to the ageing of their workforces or to the problems of non-investment or low investment in these public enterprises, since all this leads to a decrease in their competitiveness and may affect their future viability. Thus, the principles of efficiency and effectiveness, transparency, accountability and even evaluation of results should be restored. Finally, a suggestion, which is already almost a classic on the part of the speaker, which is also reflected in this non-law proposal and which I will not miss the opportunity to repeat, is legal certainty, legal certainty and more legal certainty. I'll repeat it as many times as necessary. Legal certainty is now called for in the application of public sector legislation in relation to commercial companies. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Outós. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moraleja.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u72	President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group on this initiative and I have to tell you that we are surprised, first of all, by the joint presentation of an initiative in which I imagine that not all the signatories will be completely comfortable - listening to them today, it seems that they have forgotten some of the things that have happened in the past parliamentary term - and, secondly, by the time of their presentation. In any case, we are in one of the last plenary sessions of this legislature and I suppose the next call for general elections can explain everything. You begin by talking about reversing the serious effects that are causing the different policies launched by the Government of the nation through Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, as well as the restrictive measures of the General State Budgets Act for the public business sector. This is the first paragraph of your initiative and, of course, with this beginning we can hardly rely on the outcome. This decree-law and the General Budget Act, together with many other reforms that have been carried out by this Government and with the support of this House, are part of the most important package of reforms that has never been carried out in this House; reforms that were not an end in themselves, as you have been sick of saying all this time. No, it was not an end but a means; yes, a means for this country not to be rescued and we were able among all Spaniards to emerge from the greatest crisis, the hardest of the last 50 years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the initial approach is not shared. Thanks to these and many other reforms we are emerging, with suffering, from a crisis in which part of you here have put us into. If the starting point is not shared, neither is the time, because, obviously, this non-law proposition is out of time. It seems that you had it stored in the fridge and that taking advantage of the discount minutes present it. You have criticized these and other measures before they were adopted, during their adoption and each and every day of this legislature. In any case, if there is a less opportune moment, it is the present, for now we have all found that it was not this Government that was wrong when it proposed it; now we have all found that it was the measures we needed and, thanks to them, everything has gone as it had to go. Thanks to these measures and many others we have straightened out the course of a country that you left behind in bankruptcy and on the edge of the cliff. Of course, the business public sector has also improved, and that is that the starting point was to avoid a rescue like that which had been suffered by other European countries and, above all, to leave the country much better than we find it. Believe me, our corporate public sector has also occupied and worried us. I can tell you that you can rest assured that SEPI has a much better situation than four years ago, when we started this legislature. Next year it will start with a treasury of EUR 589 million, which will allow the SEPI group to continue to be the promoter of the state's industrial policy and all this at no cost to the citizens, I say clearly, at no cost to the citizens. Indebtedness amounts to 728 million, representing only 5.65% of total assets and the last consolidated profit and loss figure is 171 million euros, with a net turnover of 4,827 million euros, 13 % higher than expected in the previous financial year and continuing the steady increase in these four financial years. I sincerely believe, ladies and gentlemen, that these figures show their current stability and their projection of the future and are thanks to the positive aspects presented by the management of the SEPI group, such as those mentioned in this initiative: investment in R & D, opening up to international markets and diversification. With regard to training, which you mentioned in the second point of the non-law proposal, it should be noted that during all these years SEPI and its enterprises have regarded the qualification of their workers as a fundamental aspect, allocating both the matrix and their enterprises considerable resources to vocational training and qualification, aimed at the continuing training of staff in the areas of work which they have assigned, taking into account their professional development. Believe me, it is no coincidence that these and other aspects place SEPI at the forefront of national and international development in different sectors. With regard to occupational safety, allow me to expand a little further. SEPI is an entity governed by public law whose activities, like those of its enterprises, are in conformity with the private, civil, commercial and labour legal system and therefore with full consent to Act No. 31/1995 on the Prevention of Occupational Risks and its development regulations. Moreover, in order to promote safety and health at work, the Government approved the Spanish Strategy for Safety at Work 2015-2020, which has as its general objectives to promote better implementation of legislation on safety and health at work and to promote the continuous improvement of working conditions with respect to all workers alike, with particular attention to the prevention of occupational diseases and work-related diseases, which is concrete in the specific objectives first and second of improving the efficiency of dedicated investments...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u73	Mrs. Moraleja, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u74	...to enhance public action in the areas of analysis, research, promotion, support, advice, etc. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the prevention of occupational risks is already one of the policies developed by the Government through a wide range of measures that are reflected in existing legislation. We also have the Institute of Safety and Hygiene at Work, which, in accordance with the provisions of the said law, is the specialized scientific-technical body that has as its mission the analysis and study of the conditions of safety and health at work. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you are aware of any worrying situation you should denounce it because we have enough tools to solve it. If you don't, we might think that some of you like to throw the stone and hide your hand. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we do not share your initiative either in substance or in form. We believe that it is the concrete moment of the legislature that is the ultimate reason for it, so many of the people who preceded me in speaking have said the same thing, it is undeveloped and unclear. We have explained that all the measures that had been proposed...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u75	Mrs. Moraleja, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u76	... were very important and now we are seeing its positive effects on economic recovery. This business group we caught with many debts and many problems and today, after years of efficient management, we leave a much better structured group, with the future assured and leading in many of the sectors in which it is present. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moraleja.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u78	We then proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals. Firstly, it is appropriate to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the employment policy balance in the X Legislature. For the author group of the initiative, for the defence of the motion, Mr Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we tabled the motion following the question that was debated fifteen days ago in this plenary on the balance sheet of the government's employment policies in this legislature. We cannot claim that all the measures that have led to the extraordinarily negative balance of such employment policies which, I understand, we were able to demonstrate in the debate on 30 September last year should be rectified within the 70 days of this Government, nor is it in the will of the parliamentary group that supports the Government, nor would it be materially possible now. We can, however, demand the adoption of at least three useful decisions. Firstly, the recognition that we have a serious problem of unemployment, job insecurity and low unemployment protection; at least let us recognise that. First step. Secondly, the immediate repeal of the labour reform which has caused to a large extent this disappointing balance in the management of the first problem of the Spaniards. Thirdly, the inclusion in the draft State General Budgets for 2016, as the Government refuses to withdraw it, of a series of measures that could alleviate the most serious damage in the short term. Recognition of the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is a precondition for articulating any solution, however limited it may be. It is surprising, I dare say even irritating, that the Government and the People's Party are engaged in a complacent and triumphant discourse on a subject - unemployment, precariousness, job poverty - which causes so much suffering to millions of Spaniards. The OECD has just said: Spain triples the unemployment rate of the most developed countries on the planet. Spain doubles the average unemployment rate in the euro area. Spain has the record for youth unemployment in the OECD. The OECD has said this and making the trumpet of propaganda sound with this panorama is frankly irritating, I insist, ladies and gentlemen. This has been said by the OECD, by the European Commission, the ILO, the opposition and the Spanish who are suffering. There is more unemployment, there is less employment, there is more temporary work, there is more involuntary part-time work, there are more overtime hours that are worked and not recognized, there is more labour exploitation and there are more unemployed without public protection. You can use the figures as you want, from above, from below, from left, from right, you can take the statistics to Guantanamo and torture them there, but you will continue to say the same thing: there is more unemployment, more labour exploitation and less attention to the unemployed in this country. Let us at least recognize this so that we can deal with urgent measures in order to resolve it. Second request: repeal labour reform. It was a failure. This does give them time, to repeal labour reform does give them time. It has been a very damaging failure for Spanish society. They said it would bring fewer layoffs and layoffs multiplied; they said it would bring more stability to jobs in our country and today we have more precariousness, more temporality, more part-time work than ever before; they said it would strengthen workers' rights and have broken power relations within the company, giving all power to a part, to the business side, and so are the jobs, so are the wages of precarious people in this country. Do they not realize that the strategy of multiplying contracts at the price of firing precariousness and exploitation does not help the Spaniards to find good jobs? If that doesn't fool anyone. Are you not aware that one million contracts each month do not amount to one million good jobs, decent jobs each month? If they don't cheat on anyone with these stats. Are you ever going to admit that an involuntary part-time contract of less than a week because less than EUR 200 is not a job? What contract is not equal to employment, that any contract is not a worthy job worthy of that name? Ladies and gentlemen, please acknowledge at least the problem so that we can lay the groundwork for the solution. Do something worthy of unworthy labor reform: overthrow it. Last question. At this point in the debate on the General Budgets of the State for 2016 we all know, from Brussels to Barbate, that this project is to a large extent a wet paper; it is as treacherous as it is unserviceable. We also know that they are not going to withdraw it, they are not going to acknowledge their mistake, anyone who says so, even if Mr Moscovici says so, that one day it is European authority if he gives you the reason, and another day it is that French socialist if he does not give you the reason. They're not gonna rectify, we know that. That is why we are asking you, at least in the employment field, to introduce a dozen measures by next week which, while not solving the serious employment problem that we suffer, will at least brighten the hope of making it more sustainable. Some examples. We will recover the levels of investment in active employment policies that we had in 2011, at least those levels to help the employability of our unemployed. We have both plans to help find employment for the most disadvantaged, the most vulnerable, the over forty-five and fifty-year-olds, the longest-term unemployed. Let us provide both employment plans for the most vulnerable social sectors, women, to which we have to bring at least the average activity rates in Europe, and young people, who are demanding the effectiveness of that inoperable and millionaire youth guarantee programme that you have pending. Let us change the conditions of access and the resources of the activation programme for employment in dialogue with the social partners so that it does not also remain in bottled water. We strengthen the Labour Inspectorate to combat labour exploitation. Let us modernise public employment services to serve something, apart from providing few benefits. And let's get back to the 3,000 advisors and job promoters that you fired just to get to the government. And finally, let us treat with dignity - with the dignity they deserve - our unemployed, ladies and gentlemen: 42% of registered unemployed without public protection; 72% of unemployed EPA without public benefit; 3.7 million unemployed in this country without public protection, and many of those who receive benefit, receive it under precarious conditions. We urgently extend unemployment protection to all unemployed without income and with family responsibilities. We raise at least unemployment protection to the percentages of registered unemployment left by the Socialists in 2011: 70%. Ladies and gentlemen, we are skeptical about your ability and will to rectify, although this brings benefits to most Spaniards. However, be absolutely certain that the correction, if you do not do it, we will do it in seventy days. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u80	Thank you, Mr. Simancas. In defence of the amendments put forward, Mr Olabarria has the floor by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Simancas, my group has tabled a single amendment, which refers to one of the requests in paragraph 3 of your motion. When they request to double the economic resources allocated to active policies, we try to ensure that the competences that the autonomous communities possess in the field of active policies that are being subtly cut and rescued by the General Administration of the State in various rules that you and I have been able to discuss. If we accept the amendment, we would be in a position to accept the motion in its own terms. Obviously, the statistical data you mention are true. The efficiency of the State Government's employability or employment policies is overestimated, Madam President, because the data do not support it. If the data are falsified or if they are manipulated and not calculated for the purpose of increasing employees the decrease of the working population, of 753,000 people, obviously the data may be favorable, but they are not. In fact, what we are accrediting is the loss of 305,000 jobs in a related legislature and as a reference for 2011. If we look at the temporality rate - of 25.1 % that of the Spanish State - we are doubling or tripling the temporality rate of the countries of the European Union and of the OECD countries; in this case, by tripling them, with the aggravating fact that 64 % of this temporality is not voluntary, it is not assumed voluntarily by those who are hired, but they have to assume contracts at times of one day's duration, of a few hours' duration or of a month's duration; absolutely precarious contracts that do not deserve even the qualification of contracts generating or generating employment. With regard to the situation of the female labour force, the problem was of particular concern. We are in percentages of 54.7% of the female labour force employed, when Agenda 2020 sets a minimum percentage of 74% to be converged and reached. You are asking for it and it seems to us that it is fair, even from a gender perspective, to reach this percentage that is assumed by Agenda 2020. As far as youth unemployment is concerned, up to the age of twenty-five, we are faced with the dramatic situation that 50% of young people under twenty-five who want to work cannot do so, not even under absolutely precarious conditions, not even underemployed or with those job-contracting substitutes, which are scholarships and other procedures for access to the labour market. We find 5,143,221 unemployed persons, of whom more than half are not covered by the unemployment benefit or benefit. We find that long-term unemployment exceeds 64% of the total unemployed. All the measures proposed by the Socialist Group seem to us to be relevant to the amendment that we have tabled, especially those specific ones that seek primarily to enhance the employability of the most vulnerable groups from the perspective of unemployment, those over forty-five years old, and in this age group, those over fifty-five years old who have exhausted unemployment protection, those over fifty years old who have lost their jobs and who require professional qualification or retraining; employment for women with sufficient funding to reach the target of 74% under the Europe 2020 objective; the immediate implementation of resources for the effective development of the youth guarantee programme. I do not know yet, and I do not know if you know, Mr Simancas, what is the percentage of the funds allocated to the Kingdom of Spain in respect of the youth guarantee plan which is being implemented and developed. We fear the worst in the area of the percentage of implementation of this European programme - to increase employment activation programmes, which have failed since their implementation by the Ministry of Employment and Social Security; to increase the economic resources allocated to the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate not only to combat labour exploitation, but also to try to bring about the submerge of the economy, which is one of the elements that is somehow preventing the generation of high-quality employment and economic development in the Spanish State; to modernise public employment services, with the safeguarding of autonomous competences in this field, which seems to us to be particularly important...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u82	Mr. Olabarría, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u83	... the recovery of the 3,000 orientators who were trying something very important and which we applaud to the People's Group in its day, which is to seek the almost personal traceability of the unemployed through employment orientators who almost personally helped them to seek employment and who have been dismissed; and all the other measures which are designed or configured in a very reasonable way and which we are in a position to approve, Madam President, all this conditional on the acceptance of the amendment which I have previously commented and which I have glossed over which we have tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the inquiry into employment policies in the last plenary confirmed once again that the PP came to the government lying on this issue too and that it abandoned it in the same way. What were promises of job creation first became an incentive to the mass destruction of jobs and now the precariousness of the job being created. What were promises of reduction of temporality have become policies that further encourage temporary employment. We also have the generalization of part-time employment, which punishes women in particular and which has become, in addition to a mechanism of precariousness, a tool of patriarchal policies from a macho right to the moth that wants women in a certain position of subalternity in the workplace and in life. Those are some of the highlights. The promises of employment for young people have become marketing campaigns which, as in certain dishes of certain restaurants, occupy more space the name of the dish than the dish itself, there is nothing later. Employment policies have been particularly erratic in terms of active policies: severe deterioration of public employment services with a reduction in SEPE staff and policies of centralisation, of punishment to the autonomous communities literally; privatization of public employment services which, unfortunately, began with their legalization as a result of Zapatero's labour reform in 2010 but which have been launched especially for the benefit of private placement agencies and TTEs during this legislature. Minister Báñez has also moved from criticizing and rejecting recruitment incentives - remember, on March 8, 2012, when she presented the labor reform - to criticizing them as a way to misdistribute resources and throw away money, to distributing bonuses every time she needed to launch an electoral campaign or a marquetin campaign to make her see that she was doing something. This legislature has moved from subsidies from Public Employment Service budgets to exemptions from contributions with all types of flat rates; indeed, that is evidence that the People's Party and the Government pay their bus campaigns at the expense of the money of current and future pensioners, and that can already be spent. Self-employment in the hands of the People's Party has been a way of turning the self-employed into self-exploiters, inserted into an absolutely precarious subcontracting chain. And the wildest of the PP's employment policies is that which affects unemployment benefits. Mr Simancas has already said that only 58 out of every 100 unemployed people are currently receiving benefits and more than half of them are receiving assistance only and, if that were not enough, the Rajoy Government has systematically harassed unemployed people over the age of 50 with a reduction in their rights, benefits and a reduction in expectations of early retirement. We have said at some point that it seems like harassment and that it wants to take these people to a dead end. But the most serious part of this legislature has been the opportunism with which the Government has behaved. It has taken advantage of the crisis to impose labour and wage discipline, to unbalance labour relations to the benefit of capital and to the detriment of workers. Situations such as that of the workers of the Valeo de Martorelles company, at risk of closure of jobs, of transfer, or situations such as that of women, mostly of Carrefour, who see how their working conditions are changed and their personal and family life affected, are possible thanks to a labor reform voted by the People's Party and Convergence i Unió. An absolute deterioration of the collective bargaining capacity to regulate working conditions has much to do with this desire to deteriorate and unbalance labour relations, which is the policy of the People's Party. That is why our group shares the view of the trade union organizations and certain groups in this House - the Socialist Group and the Plural Left, of course - that it is essential that the next parliamentary term should start clearly with a process of going back on labour reform, although it would be good for us all to agree on what that means. Our group wants to make it clear that this means not only repealing the 2012 labour reform but also a large part of the 2010 labour reform that the Zapatero Government, for the things that happened at the time, dedicated itself to making a sherpa and putting it in the last step, in the attack camp. This also needs to be reformed, and if you ask me as a knowledgeable person, I will tell you that even some aspects of the 1994 reform, seeking mechanisms of precariousness and especially the use of the self-employed, would be a good opportunity to do so. I hope that those who are in the House at the time will know how to find the way to achieve it. In any case, let me tell you that our two amendments are essentially aimed at strengthening the motion put forward by the Socialist Group, which we share, in two areas: conditioning and preventing the privatization of public employment services, which does not mean preventing collaboration with external entities, provided they are non-profit-making, because employment is a right not a commodity and we cannot incorporate business elements into that process because then...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u86	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u87	I'm done. Then, there is the adverse selection of risks and these companies act only on that job that is easier to place those workers who live in difficulties. Secondly, one important aspect is that unemployment benefits at their high level of regulation have reached the limit of their possibilities. We need to think clearly about the creation of a guaranteed minimum income for citizenship, as trade union organizations have proposed. And I believe that as the Socialist Group has presented its programme of ceilings, we are going to propose that ours incorporate these two issues as well and, of course, repeal part of the 2010 labour reform. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u88	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. In the course of fixing positions, I see that the Joint Group is going to share the time, so Mr Serrano has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u89	Most Member States are proud of the balance sheet of their legislature in terms of job creation. It fills their mouths - we have heard it repeatedly - with statistical data on social security affiliations and on the rate of growth of jobs, even indefinite, as an index and sign of overcoming the crisis. I do not deny that you are overcoming your crisis, the economic crisis of the elites whom you represent and whose interests favor your policy. But if we analyze and cross-check the data from your statistics, it is evident - by setting just one example, I can't stop anymore - that the increase in social security affiliations does not correspond to a parallel increase, much less, in the income of that social security, which indicates to the clear something that you never comment on: that those affiliations correspond to poorly paid and low-paying jobs, therefore. You are creating a working class again; of very old wedge, actually, but that already seemed distant in time in developed countries; a working class again poor that cannot ensure a worthy and stable future, that can only support - and with difficulties - their daily needs. It is enough to compare the minimum wages and the average real wages with those of most European Union countries, as we have heard today in this forum by both active and passive; comparisons you never make. When you refer to the fact that you are overcoming the crisis, you refer to the crisis of yours, not that of the vast majority of citizens. It is even worse; said in terms of economic theory, they are successfully taking advantage - that is, of the economic crisis that broke out in 2007 to implement their model of society, the model based on increasingly profound inequalities, the model based on an elite capable of freely, liberally, liberally, without cuts or social regulations, but that does squander public resources for the rescue of their private foresights, using the State as a fund-raiser for those rescues at the cost of eliminating public services, of making public services private businesses that do not function as services, and that replace the model of stable and dignified employment with its precarious model of very low wages, replaceable employment at any time and without any concern for the quality of the conditions or dignity of work or for the remuneration or for the professional training of most working people.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Mrs Oramas has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Four years of despair. Four years of eliminating all employment policies in this country. In the Canary Islands, where we had a level of unemployment 6 or 7 points higher than the national average, the People's Party charged itself with the employment plan for educational infrastructure, a specific vocational training plan, for inefficient. Well, according to the report you published a few months ago, it turns out that the best efficiency in the management of employment and training resources has been achieved by the Canary Islands, and you in the state budgets voted against the Canary Islands Employment Plan, when all we asked for was its maintenance until the national average. In the Canary Islands, we have the highest youth unemployment in the European Union, and in an unsuspecting newspaper, such as ABC, funds for the training of unemployed young people have been published for two days now. [[Shows a newspaper article]] The newspaper itself says: The obstacles of the new system are an unstoppable barrier. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Olabarría said, we do not have specific employment plans for the typology of the labour problems of each autonomous community - totally different in each territory - nor is there any competition on the part of the State for aspects related to unemployment and active employment policies. Finally, Europe is concerned about employment, youth unemployment, and is drawing up a Juncker Plan whose priority is employment, but this Government does not finish clarifying how it is going to manage that plan or what its priorities are, but sees it as an electricity and communications infrastructure plan and not an employment plan. Gentlemen of the PP, you have to admit that in these four years we have saved Bankia, we have saved the bank, we have saved the big companies of this country, but we have left thousands of young people without hope, who had formed because we had told them, and many people who have crossed the border of fifty years. The other day on a television show I was asked by one person: What are you going to do in Congress so that I can work, contribute and eventually have a pension? That is what I ask you, gentlemen of the People's Party. For our part, we will support this motion. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Socialist Party is presenting us with a motion, following urgent questioning, the title of which refers to a balance sheet of employment policy during this parliamentary term, but our parliamentary group cannot be limited to this parliamentary term, because the problem of unemployment and unemployment begins long before that. Data of all kinds - there are statistics for all tastes - can be given; I will give a single figure with regard to the beginning of the crisis, which is when it really starts to cause unemployment that the policies of both the Socialist Government and the People's Party have failed to resolve. With regard to employment at the beginning of the crisis, and with regard to the current situation, there are still 2 million people who have not been able to recover their jobs. [[The lady]] That is the reality, and then we can disguise it as what we want, because the process of job destruction has not been linear, but has experienced high and low. Of course, we have already heard the Government defend on several occasions the effort made to recover part of the employment, taking advantage of the economic recovery, which has undoubtedly been the result not only but also of the economic policies of the Government. The reality that we have to assume all the parliamentary groups in this House is that there are still 2 million people who had jobs in 2008 and have not recovered it today, because there were approximately 19 million people employed and there are 17 million today. From there we can also enter into the debate as to whether more or less indefinite contracts have been made, either full-time or part-time, and the figures sometimes cover up realities. For example, part-time contracts have risen from 2,038,000 to 2,514,000, but sometimes membership data hide that in many cases some of these persons with part-time contracts have several part-time contracts and compute as if they were several persons in the social security membership. I will put a sector that is characteristic of this phenomenon, that of domestic workers. [[The Lord]] We have moved them to the general social security system, removing the exceptionality they had, but the fact is that at the moment a household employee who is hired by three different persons on part-time contracts, each of whom is assessed on her share of social security, appears in the statistics as if they were three different part-time employees when she is the same person. What is it, then? I think we can agree on two things: the first is that the problem of unemployment has not been solved, either with the labour policies of the Socialist Government or with the labour policies of the People's Party Government, or at least not solved at the level of the gravity of the problem we have in this country and which has already been highlighted, which is remarkably different and superior to that of other countries. Secondly, it has already been pointed out by the Socialist spokesman that at this point we all know that technically the budgets can still be corrected in the Senate, but in politics there are no miracles, if 4,300 amendments have been tabled in Congress, do you really believe that with this motion you will get the position of the People's Party and the Government changed? Of course not. That has another reading, that we are in an electoral period and that the Socialist Party wants to show what it could do if it came to the government. That is fine, but they will accept that our parliamentary group does not enter its electoral game. Nor are we going to deny what is obvious and true in this motion. Therefore, if we have to choose between the bad and the worse, we choose not to choose. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Picó has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll talk from the seat. The Socialist Group's initiative is a full-fledged amendment and it is legitimate for the Socialist Party to make a full-fledged amendment to the employment policy developed by the Government. Unito's overall assessment of employment policies is not good, and I say this because if one thing we have demanded since the beginning of this legislature is a shock plan for job creation, employment for young people, employment for over forty-five years of age, combating long-term unemployment, training, active policies, among other measures. In spite of the initiatives put forward by both the plenary and the various committees, little has been done in this regard. We believe that the Government, with the reduction of transfers to the autonomous communities with active employment policy competences, with re-centralizing policies or with general budgets that do not have the main objective of creating jobs, has not used all the mechanisms it has at its disposal to combat the main economic and social problem that we have had throughout this legislature and that we still have, no matter how much someone wants us to believe otherwise. We are therefore critical of the government's employment policy without doubt, but, being able to share some of the measures proposed to us by the Socialist Party on its initiative, especially with regard to point three, I must also say that they are more aspirations than realities, Mr Simancas. You yourself have acknowledged in your speech that they are more than anything aspirations because they have little temporary scope to carry them out. Therefore, from this perspective, the Union will abstain. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. The legislature ends and the data can hardly invite anyone, or the Government itself, to be euphoric about the employment situation. From this point of view, apart from the specific considerations of the motion defended by Mr Simancas, it is good that this afternoon we finish the parliamentary term by discussing in depth the employment issues. Surely, regardless of whether we sit in these seats, we are going to talk about employment and it is going to be a matter of reviewing in depth the measures that have been taken during this parliamentary term. From the point of view of the review of the measures adopted, it is clear that some of the reforms in the labour market adopted in these legislatures deserve a review, of course; but it is also true that we would be wrong, and much wrong, in terms of employment and competitiveness of the business fabric, if we did not understand that an open labour market, with competitive enterprises, also needs to be flexible. Therefore, as much as we strive to review some issues, I am sure that the facts, the common sense of governments and the capacity for agreement between the social partners will make some of the reforms that have been promoted in this legislature consolidated over time. This has not been the only time that this has happened when we discussed employment in Spanish policy. Sometimes it is preached from the opposition that which can hardly be practiced when ruled because it goes against the real needs of the economy and businesses. Secondly, reforms that have not been addressed in the next parliamentary term will certainly have to be addressed in the next parliamentary term, for example, contractual simplification, an issue which the Government has boasted of at times but which has not been addressed, or the progress towards a model of compensation for dismissal inspired by the existing capitalization fund in Austria or Italy, precisely in order to combat more radically the high temporality that our labour market continues to suffer. We will have to address such serious issues as those that we discussed this afternoon on the convergence proposal, such as the increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, precisely in order to combat inequality and to reverse a growth model not based on low wages or competing with the countries of the emerging economies but competing in services and value-added goods; we will have to address a reform of unemployment protection in order to cope with long-term unemployment at a time when our social protection system does not respond to that need; and we will have to take seriously this Government's great outstanding subject, which is active employment policies, precisely because a flexible labour market such as that which requires an integrated economy on a global scale, in order to be fair must be accompanied by powerful employment policies. There are still outstanding issues. It is not the time of euphoria, but of more serious answers than those given in this legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs Álvarez-Arenas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ-ARENAS CISNEROS: Thank you very much, Mr President. We are in a debate which, as is often said, is a déjà vu. They finish the legislature, socialists, as they ended the previous one, with denial and error. They denied the crisis and made a mistake. They deny recovery and make mistakes again, especially because they are committed to denying hope to the Spaniards. I wonder why. You only think about the policy of your own interests and you have to think about people. There is one thing that is unquestionable: with the PSOE we are going to ruin, unemployment, instability and distrust; with the People's Party, growth, employment, stability and trust. Read you and listen to any national or international analyst of the bodies involved in this matter, including the OECD, but listen to everything, listen and understand, which is more than listening and listening. With you the unemployment grew to 7.8%. At the moment, unemployment is reduced to 8,13 %. It's unquestionable. With you the unemployment rate rose from 8.6% to 22.9% and that of young people from 18.8% to 48.6%, 20 points. With you, from 2008 to 2011, 2.7 million jobs were destroyed - it is in statistics -; with you there were 3.5 million unemployed in the last three years of the legislature. With this government, between 2014 and 2015 a million jobs have been created, get as they are. There are 376,000 unemployed less than at the beginning of the legislature, the hardest and hardest after the disaster that Mr Zapatero left us, and of those 376,000, 105,000 have been women and 51,000 young people. In your last parliamentary term, socialists - I say socialists in quotes, and then I will refer to this - households with no income increased by 250,000, and in the last two years of this government they have fallen by 260,000. Going up and down is completely different. We always have to fix what you destroy, socialist gentlemen, and the data show it: PSOE equals poverty and unemployment; Popular Party equals growth and employment. It's an equation that even children who are in basic education know. 92% of all jobs created have been full-time. You speak of quality. 75% are indefinite jobs in Spain. Is that enough? No, of course not, but it was 74% in 2011 and you were ruling. In 2007, the rate of indefinite employment was 69% in full. Be reasonable, recognize it, because you will have more credibility. To confirm this there are some data that I do not hear you say: Andalusia, 35% temporality; Madrid, 15.3% temporality. In 2011, undefined recruitment fell to 30% and is now growing to 16%. Falling and growing are divergent lines. You and we are diverging in the most important thing, in the first social policy, which is the creation of quality jobs and jobs. You speak of precarious employment, but what a faint memory. You made temporality the perpetuity. You were chained with your regulations, one by one, and another temporary job, and nothing happened. That has ended with this Government. You had the fellows without social protection and this government has given them social protection, and today employers are contributing to Social Security by the fellows. You talk about social rights, but I was already a deputy and I remember a general strike and that the only contract in Spain that has not had social coverage was a contract made by a socialist government. Remember, ladies and gentlemen. You have a speech in the opposition and a very different one in the government. The PSOE forgot a lot about the socialist, the worker's or the e of Spain. They can give data, but Eurostat, which I believe is European - it has nothing to do with the Spanish Government - says that Spain is the most job-creating country in the euro area, the second most job-creating country at the moment, and that temporary employment over total employment created is 35,4 %. But the EU average is 37.1% and the euro area average is 43%. With all this data you remain committed to repealing labour reform. It's a real obsession, a deja vu. Just because you didn't do it, though you tried it in 2010. By the way, Mr Coscubiela said today that it should be repealed. No, no, He doesn't want to repeal the 2010 one. But you did it, and you stayed in the explanatory statement - you were not able to go beyond it - to see if it was in line with the explanatory statement in the European Union, which did not collate. But now we see, that economic adviser who gave two hours of economic lessons to Mr Zapatero is saying, where you want to hear him and privately, that of repealing labor reform if you come to rule, nothing at all. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish do not deserve an opposition that lies to them. You guys left Spain like a yard. Recession, rising unemployment and up to 3.5 million unemployed in its last three years. Irresponsibility and incapacity, ladies and gentlemen. I am not going to tell you how you solved the problems in the 2010 crisis by freezing pensioners' pensions and stealing money from your own hut. If we did everything you proposed, we would go back to where we were at the beginning of the legislature, to a solar house. We would go to an excessive deficit, a fall in confidence and a growing unemployment with the measures you are proposing today. Not only are we not going to approve them, as the representative of UPyD has said, because they are extemporaneous and the legislature is going to end. No, ladies and gentlemen. We're not going to approve them because we're going to disaster again. Spain cannot afford a setback in its growth and job creation. Labour reform has succeeded in curbing the destruction of employment and in starting to create it at never-known rates of economic growth. With 1%, jobs have been created. Jobs are now being created while economic growth is taking place. Labour reform, financial sector reform are key to the stability and confidence of this country, pillars of a solid and stable recovery that all international agencies recognize. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude, Mr President, the foundations are well anchored. The building is already starting to exceed the zero quota. The building has begun to grow. What's left to build? Of course, a big tower needs to be built. We've got to keep moving. Much remains to be done. You have to lift the rest of the building, and most importantly, you have to give it well-being inside. And there we can meet. Mr. Campuzano...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u99	Mrs. Alvarez-Arenas, you have to finish. Mrs ÁLVAREZ-ARENAS CISNEROS: I am finished, Mr President. Mr. Campuzano has stated many things that can be worked out, which would fill that building that needs to be built. Of course I do! And we'll have to do it in the next legislature. But we cannot eliminate that growth from the building, nor end and undermine those foundations that have been solidly laid to make it last for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, you know this and that is why you are saying with your mouths small and not in public that of repealing labour reform nothing at all. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it, because we are on the right track, because Spain deserves that solid future of a tall and comfortable building, is why we call you all to an exciting project. We call on all Spaniards to get 20 million jobs and let us all do it together from now on. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Álvarez-Arenas. Mr Simancas, do you accept any amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u101	We accept the amendment by the Basque Group. That's the only one.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. - the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUia, CHA: on measures to be taken by the Government in the present situation of refugee recovery. [[File number 173/000229]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u103	Motion by the Group of the Plural Left on measures to be taken by the Government in the current refugee situation. Mr Sixto has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. This motion I defend is the result of the questioning of the Government in the person of the Minister of the Interior that took place on Wednesday, 30 September. The previous day, the House adopted a non-legislative proposal, within the Socialist Parliamentary Group quota, which spoke of asylum and migration. It was a non-legislative proposal that we unanimously adopted all the groups in the House in a debate that made clear the political differences that existed and that exist on this issue between the various groups in the House, but also made clear the will for consensus and the will for understanding of absolutely all the groups represented here so that the Government would promote a political improvement in the treatment of asylum. In this connection, in the question that was discussed the following day, my group tried to put to the Government the realization of that demonstrated will, of that true change in the asylum policy of the People's Party Government, that of a policy that was radically opposed, for example, to the question of the quotas of asylum seekers that were being talked about from the European Union has moved to a policy - in which it is now - to assume the agreements reached in the European Union. In that connection, what we were proposing to the Government was to specify specific measures to be developed and time frames to develop those measures and to try to get the Government to put its commitments on the blackboard in the light of the unanimous agreement of the previous day. That same afternoon of the interpellation, here in the parliamentary seat, and at the request of two parliamentary groups, of the Joint Group, namely of Amaiur, and of the Group of the Plural Left, we had a day in one of the halls of the house, to which we invited members of various very plural and very diverse organizations, including philosophical-religious, but dedicated specifically in their activities to the attention of migrants and some also specifically to the attention of refugees. It was a very interesting day. There were members of this House from virtually all parliamentary groups, and even some intervened in defence of some of the issues raised there. The truth is that what the representatives of civil society, who have played the key role in making the Government turn into its policy and that all parliamentary groups have this problem as one of the main issues on our political agenda, were very interesting. They highlighted the limitations, of which we were all aware, of the agreement reached the previous day unanimously in this House and put forward some good proposals in the light of their experience and their work for consideration by the House. My parliamentary group has made available to these NGOs, to these entities, the opportunity for this motion which is before the House today. The truth is that the twelve points or twelve proposals of which it is composed, more than ours, are of them, are of these entities that are in the day-to-day working in the care of immigrants and in the care of asylum-seekers. I say that these proposals for agreement are not launched as a proposal for no-one's maximums against anything. In the defence of GNP, my parliamentary group said that we understood that this was a starting point and not a point of arrival. This is intended to be a point of continuation of the tenth point of that GNP which said that we must continue on the path of dialogue and on the path of consensus. In that regard, we have put forward these twelve proposals which you, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you know. If they were to be synthesized into one, the first and most important would be to implement all the necessary measures to enable the legal and secure channels guaranteeing access to the right to asylum in Spain. This first point concerns all the others, on which there are such specific issues as that diplomatic delegations are given certain instructions, that asylum seekers are being transferred more quickly than they are moving from Ceuta and Melilla to the Peninsula or that a specific aid plan for ships in danger in the Mediterranean is being implemented, beyond the measures that are being implemented to date by a European Union that sees immigrants and asylum-seekers with rejection and not as they would have to see, as an unavoidable commitment to humanitarian aid, also enshrined in the treaties that give meaning to the European Union itself. Ladies and gentlemen, these twelve points are not the twelve points of my parliamentary group, they are the twelve points that NGOs and entities transfer to the House for the consideration of the groups; they are not to be seen as an attack by anyone against anyone, but as a continuation of the debate that we have already had and as a reflection of the firm will of the whole of the House groups to maintain a clear position of support for the people who come to our country fleeing armed conflict, exactly as has happened at other times in our country's history. An amendment has been tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to this motion. It is an addendum amendment that complements and improves the motion, points out certain issues that we share in relation to the territorial structure of the State, the autonomous structure, and we will therefore accept it. I want to dedicate the last seconds of which may be my last speech in plenary, since we all have to go through the ballot boxes that will put each of us in our place, to say that it has been a real pleasure and an honour to defend the 96,237 people who voted for the United Left-The Greens candidacy in the elections of November 20, 2011. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. An amendment to this motion has been tabled by the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, which is going to defend Mr Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, a few days ago we had the opportunity to discuss in depth the refugee crisis that Europe is experiencing. There was a House statement that enjoyed the support of all the parliamentary groups, a splendid consensus, but we already said in that discussion that in the debate on the management of the shelter crisis we necessarily had to have a critical view, critical of how Europe has addressed and is addressing this crisis and critical of the Spanish Government's asylum policy as well. From that logic, it seemed to us opportune and legitimate - it would be missing more - that La Izquierda Plural posed a question a few days ago and today this corresponding motion. We take advantage of the fact that we are taking the floor in the rostrum to convey to the House the concern that Europe - and also the Government of the Spanish State - is dealing with the situation in Hungary, Croatia, the Balkans and Greece. Winter is approaching and the measures that should have been taken long ago are still coming. The autonomous communities have been mobilized - in our case, the Catalan Government has created a reception operation that is in progress - civil society has been mobilized, the municipal world has been mobilized, but the situation of refugees remains more or less what it had been a few weeks ago. Therefore, the first cause for concern. Second of concern, hot potatoes that most directly affect the Spanish Government and are not linked to this crisis, particularly the situation in Ceuta and Melilla, continue to be entrepreneurship in terms of compliance with international human rights law and specifically in terms of international protection for asylum-seekers. This is not only because of the situation of the CETI in Melilla, with more than 1,500 people staying in a centre that has capacity for about 500 people, but also because of the abnormal situation of Syrian refugees who are on the Moroccan border with Melilla, and let us no longer say because of the situation of possible asylum seekers from African countries, from sub-Saharan countries. The situation, I insist, in Ceuta and Melilla is singularly serious and this House cannot remain apart from it. I therefore welcome this initiative because it allows us to demonstrate, by sharing the consensus of a few days ago, elements that the House cannot ignore. It would be very strange if, happy and satisfied with the consensus, we were not able to express issues of concern to us. Secondly, the amendments that Convergència Democrática has moved to this motion - which Mr Sixto has accepted and my group thanks him - aim, firstly, to remind us that the development of the fourth additional provision of the Asylum Act is pending. It is an additional provision not less because it was what justified, among other issues, the vote of Convergence i Joined the reform of the Asylum Law, an agreement that reached Mercè Pigem with the former socialist government that allowed the reception programs of refugees to be managed by the autonomous communities. It is reasonable that this should be the case to the extent that they are competent in the matter. Secondly, sufficient resources must be guaranteed to enable the Autonomous Communities to meet their host responsibilities. Thirdly, we must promote maximum transparency in European funds, which is a matter of concern because we should ask ourselves how Spain has so far spent the resources received from the European Union on policies for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers. Finally - and I conclude with this, Mr President - we propose that the transfers from the CETI from Melilla to the Peninsula should also be carried out in common with the Autonomous Communities. These are amendments which I believe improve the text of the Plural Left and which we hope will be supported by the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Iñarritu has the floor in the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we would like to thank the proposing group, the Plural Left, not only for having tabled this motion, but also for the management it has made of it by incorporating input from different groups, but above all from entities, from non-governmental organisations working day-to-day dealing with this humanitarian emergency not only now but for many years. Two weeks ago, a proposal was adopted in this House which, although a first step, had major shortcomings. Those shortcomings can be overcome today by incorporating the twelve measures proposed in the motion submitted. In it is everything that was missing in the previous one and that we denounced two weeks ago. With regard to this crisis, we are not facing a refugee crisis, we are facing the crisis in Europe. As Professor Javier de Lucas recently said, we are five minutes away from the European Union's moral, legal and political waterloo, the defeat of all the ideals for which it was built. European states and citizens have a contract with refugees through the Geneva Convention, we have not fulfilled our part of the contract and this is fatally hurting the European project. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about a solidarity and ethical obligation, which we are also talking about, but rather about a legal obligation, a European, a State, an international obligation, which is not being fulfilled to this day either in the European Union or in the Spanish State. Why have people who have the right to international protection had to play life, many of them losing it, until they reach Europe when they have that recognized international right? Ladies and gentlemen, today's proposals are essential in order to resolve quickly the problem caused not so much by the arrival of refugees in Europe, but by the lack of measures today both in the State and in the European Union. Speaking of this matter, I insist, I would like to bring up two issues. The first is the situation that is being experienced in the city of Melilla. There is no need to look at Hungary, there are now 1,500 asylum seekers at the CETI in Melilla; one third of those applicants are minors who are overcrowded in a centre built for 500 people. Most of them are separated from their families, which are located in the Moroccan city of Nador, on the other side of the fence. The only way they have access to the border asylum office is by paying para-police mafias. Why has this matter not been resolved so far? Why have they not responded from the Government to CEAR's request to provide visas at the Nador Consulate? No response has been received because there is no interest of the Government in resolving this situation. It is preferred that these mafias are crossing minors and asylum seekers to the office. Similarly, and in addition to the difficulty of applying for asylum in the Spanish State - let us remember that it is one of the States of the European Union where it is most difficult to apply for asylum - we want to denounce the case of Hassana Aalia, a Saharawi activist who has applied for asylum in the Spanish State because in Morocco he has been sentenced to life imprisonment in an unfair trial or without guarantees and whose life, if transferred to Morocco, would be in grave danger. Well, the Government not only rejected this asylum application, but last week he was arrested in the city of Burgos and he was handed an expulsion order by police officers within 48 hours, regardless of the precautionary measure, which does not exist to this day, of a judge of the National Court saying that until this matter is resolved judicially, it cannot be expelled. That is why Basque society, the institutions of the Basque Country, where it resides, have asked the Government to agree to grant asylum to this person. That is why, once again, we bring this request to this House, which by common sense the Government agrees to grant asylum, regardless of the judicial proceedings under way, to Hassana Aalia. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Olabarría has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. One of the most satisfactory acts of this legislature was undoubtedly to achieve unanimity which fell on the non-law proposal adopted on 29 September in relation to the subject we are debating today. All the groups committed themselves to a series of measures which constituted, and thus contained in the proposal itself, a starting point and not a closure pin. We have to look for the closure pin in a polyhedron that is becoming more complicated in its quantitative and qualitative dimensions. Look, Mr. President, the United States is bombing the Islamic State. The Russian Federation is bombing the democratic rebels of the El Assad regime. Turkey is bombing the Turks. In this polyhedron where no one knows who is bombing who or for what reasons - bastard and spurious reasons in the generality of the occasions - we find that this humanitarian crisis is going to acquire dimensions that are difficult to control or manage. And from that perspective, we are pleased with the contributions of the groups with which we had the opportunity to depart the same afternoon that this non-law proposal was adopted and from which most of the proposals presented by the United Left Parliamentary Group: implementing measures necessary to enable legal and secure means to guarantee the right of asylum in Spain. I imagine that according to the requirements of the Geneva Convention, ratified by the Spanish State and part of the Spanish legal system, requirements that are not always met, as Mr Sixto knows perfectly well. Urgently adopt the regulatory development of Law 12/2009, which regulates the right to asylum and subsidiary protection, a regulation that has been pending for six years, an issue that is not vague, especially in a matter of this dimension and this dramatism. Commitment to increasing official development assistance. There has been some budgetary but insufficient progress, given the scale and dramatic nature of the phenomenon we are facing. To give appropriate instructions to consulates and embassies to facilitate the processing and granting of humanitarian visas and to work to make requirements more flexible for applicants in countries at war. The attitude of some reluctant and refractory consulates and embassies to grant visas in situations as dramatic as those we are analysing is outrageous. Ensure in all cases the urgent and immediate transfer to the Peninsula of refugees and asylum-seekers in the cities of Ceuta and Melilla. This is somewhat paradoxical with the legalization that has just been carried out in the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security from Hot Return. Here we are playing in a field, Mr Sixto, which is terribly slippery, where the boonist impulses recorded in this proposal not for law contradict absolutely not only concrete administrative acts of the Spanish Administration, but rules that we are positivizing and incorporating into our legal order absolutely contradictory to the boonism and the well-intentioned nature of this proposal not for law. Mr Campuzano called for consistency. We are going to make an invocation of coherence and we are going to close the brooch well, adjusting to the requirements of the legal system and of the solidarity and humanitarian character of which all the parliamentary groups that signed the proposal for a reference law presume or boast. Develop further specific actions for unaccompanied minor refugees and vulnerable women, and facilitate mechanisms for family reunification. Mr Sixto, you and I are not going to be fooled, we are in the same Commission and we are dealing with this problem systematically: the de facto family reunification has disappeared, not from the Spanish legal system, but from the practice of the Spanish authorities. From this perspective, we will try not only to reach consensus, which is not bad, these points which you propose so pertinently and which can be a further step towards the closure of the brooch, because the reality is that the closure of the brooch is still very open, it is very far in attitudes and rules, some of which we will have to repeal. From that perspective, I hope that consensus, which is a higher value in the field of dealing with problems of this dimension, will continue to prevail and continue to gravitate over this House, but they also have to prevail and gravitate our laws on the actions of the Administration and the proper regulation and in accordance with the international treaties signed by the Spanish State and the most elementary humanitarian and material justice requirements. From that perspective, goodism is good, voluntarism is good, it is a breakthrough, but only that too. Finally, I would like to end by saying that we are in a farewell procedure which would suggest that you ban it, Mr President, because it causes desolation. [[Laughter]] If some of the best Members with whom we have lived so far are going to continue to be dismissed from this House, I do not know who will replace you what you will have to manage and how you will be able to do so. Avoid the melancholy and depression that this farewell process is causing us, at least some of whom we know people who are saying goodbye, many of whom are the best. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría, but I do not agree with you. It seems to me very good that the comrades who have been with us for so many years and I'm sorry, I am saddened, but it gives me joy because I am sure that others will come who will be better than us. That's life. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. The motion made by the Plural Left seems very good to us and we believe that it also deepens or details some issues that were not fully reflected in the non-legislative proposal that we agreed all groups in the last plenary and, in that sense, we will support it, although I do mean that some things leave us somewhat perplexed. I want to see what kind of amendments you have negotiated with Democratic Convergence because the idea of converting the reception of refugees and even the transition to the Peninsula of refugees hosted by CETI in Ceuta and Melilla in terms of negotiations between autonomous communities and the State does not know what the hell has to do with the problem of refugees. It seems to me that it is completely changing the focus of the issue. What is the problem, the refugees or the insatiable competences of the autonomous communities, which now, apparently, also have to have competence in the area of political asylum or at least its management? I suppose you will agree with me that one of the most serious problems for the European Union's poor reception policy with regard to refugees has been as obvious as the nationalism of States. There have been extreme cases, such as that of Hungary and other countries, especially of the East, but no other countries with a tradition of secular political asylum have met the challenge either. That has been a problem, a European Union as a somewhat ambiguous or indeterminate political entity that has not been able to overcome such selfish government policies, which in turn has created problems that have also served, above all, to spread xenophobia, rejection of refugees and suspicion of them. If you want to convince me that what happens is that the autonomous communities in Spain are going to fight each other for a more generous policy of inclusion, allow me to laugh because it would be the first time. If what you want to tell me is that it is guaranteed that tax transfers from the state to the autonomous communities will serve finalist objectives, it would be the first time, it would not be wrong, because it has never happened before. This leaves us somewhat puzzled because, as I say, it is something as rare as saying that we are going to solve the problem of all children eating and we are going to end up worrying about the problem of child food distributors. No, they're things that have nothing to do with it, that would have to be separated. One thing is that the autonomous communities, in the use of the statutory and constitutional powers that they have, accept or propose to the State different policies and another thing is that they become in the matter of negotiation. We don't agree there. However, as I say to you, our intention is still to support this motion and we want to see what kind of amendments you have adopted because, I insist, it distorts the subject, it changes the focus and the problem is not the Spanish Autonomous Communities, it is the refugees who come to Europe looking for something they are entitled to and, of course, changing one thing for the other seems inextricable to me, the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sixto, I have had the opportunity to read the question you raised on Wednesday, the 30th. I could not attend at that time because of a battling virus, but from home I wanted to reflect on the content. The question that you raised seemed to me to be of very high quality, a question that asked a lot of questions, and I think that this is a task that we have as parliamentary groups: to ask in the face of a situation that we do not have the data and which appears with great uncertainty, as is the case with refugees. But when I read the motion I had the feeling - and now I say it in the first person - that we were facing a deja vu, and then I didn't understand very well. I'll explain myself. On the 29th all the groups in this House, leaving aside an important piece of what everyone had assumed and raised as an immigration policy, we were able to do so in order to find ourselves at one point - I remember I said here that it should be a starting point - a framework that would allow us to operate and give an image to the citizens of solidity, coherence and, above all, of example so that this agreement would be in cascade until reaching each of the territories. I understood that this was the meaning, that it wasn't mine, yours or that, we wouldn't have done this, but we had to come to an agreement, and the agreement I think was worth it. When I have seen the motion, I insist, there is a good part that we have already seen and that is incorporated, as the subject of minors or as the subject of the first point, which is also included in the agreement that we made. So, what I see is a good repetition with many concretions, but, let me say, from today to tomorrow things cannot have changed much. I would understand this in a control session, we would understand all this if we continued the legislature, with controls to the government to know how it works, but right now we think it may not be the right thing to do. For what reason? If the main objective was to give us a message to ourselves and the citizenry that we are able to agree on an issue as important, as strategic and as human as this, how can we break this the next day? Look at you, in order to reach that agreement we had meetings, phone calls, a text, a second text, a third version, a fourth version...It wasn't easy. The entities to which you referred were also consulted and it seems to me that today we are not giving the message, but a meta-message that hides behind a different position, and it seems to me that this should be allowed to settle, or that it should be something more than twenty-four hours. [[The lady]] Mr Sixto, my group would have liked a call and I suppose the rest of the groups too: we believe that there are two or three elements missing that are fundamental and we must put them back. And agree, but you didn't ask for participation. You have legitimately used a parliamentary mechanism - legitimately, you have every right - to raise what we were unable to reach the day before. We cannot be starting all day and, contrary to what Mr Olabarría said, the agreement was really a starting point, it did not close, but at a starting point we must give it something more than twenty-four hours and, above all, demand the necessary consensus of all the groups. The Socialist Group would have thanked him for telling us what you are going to do, how can we improve it? This is missing and in the face of this vacuum, let me say, I believe that what is most valuable today is the agreement signed by all, because it is of all, because it has to go in chain to the territory and to the entities, because it links us, in addition to all the struggle that we must continue to do on this issue, which is fundamental: too much at stake, above all lives. I'm just finishing up. Mr Sixto, we would have liked this meeting, this space of consensus, but we have been thinking about it and we are going to abstain. We think it's what he's playing today and we think this is the right thing to do. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Esteve. For the People's Group, Mr. Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the participation of all the parliamentary groups, on 29 September we were able to reach an important agreement which laid the foundations for a state pact on the refugee crisis, pointing out in that common position proposed in the face of the terrible humanitarian tragedy that Europe has at the moment. It is clear that, based on the basic issues, it was and is necessary to continue to work from the consensus to find the best solutions that will enable us to deal with the serious migration crisis that we are experiencing. I am therefore pleased that the motion we are debating recognizes that the inquiry of last day 30 showed the firm will of the Government to work in the line of consensus established by the non-legislative proposal adopted just one day earlier. However, in spite of this conviction and the extensive explanations offered by the Minister of the Interior in response to his question, you have endeavoured to present this motion, a motion which comes to ask the Government to do what it is already working on; which comes only to reiterate in large part those measures which we share all the parliamentary groups and which we express with the unanimous approval of the non-law proposal; a motion, in short, which fails to provide new initiatives, questions or solutions to those already offered and which has not allowed the Government to give a minimum margin to move forward in the proposals adopted only two weeks ago, because, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about effective measures to respond to the complex and urgent challenges currently posed in the refugee crisis, we cannot continue to apply the rearview or put the march in neutral, which is what you are doing with your initiative. I have little time to go into detail at the bottom of the matter. In any case, they will allow me to make a number of considerations starting with a purely terminological question or, as Mr Olabaría would say with the precision that characterizes him, an amphibological question, namely the one concerning the title of the motion, which, according to his heading, deals with measures that the Government intends to take in the present situation of refugee collection. I believe that the right word is not to pick up, but to take in refugees, for it is not to pick up but to welcome, receive and integrate those who are forced to flee their homes and seek refuge in order to escape violence. As in the approach to the title of the motion they come to question the measures that the Government intends to take, it will allow me to continue to respond to that initial question. The Government, as you well know, through the inter-ministerial group and with the participation of the autonomous communities, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the entities specialized in the care and integration of refugees, is working actively and for months in the management of this crisis. It is doing so by strengthening the human and material resources of the Asylum and Refugee Office, increasing the international protection budget by 105 per cent and increasing efforts to provide an effective response to the thousands of people in need. This has allowed only this year - and I quote data from the first nine months - Spain to handle around 10,000 asylum applications, of which 4,000 are from Syria. The estimate at the end of the year, as the Minister of the Interior advanced in the inquiry, is that we will be around 18,000 asylum applications in Spain, apart from the Community relocation programmes. Mr Sixto, time does not allow me to go into more detail in the proposals related to the motion you have put forward today, but there is no doubt that these are either already under way or have already been requested sufficiently clearly from the Government by all the parliamentary groups in the House through the unanimous adoption of the non-legislative proposal. We therefore believe that this motion, regardless of its good faith, is not timely but opportunistic and hasty, so the People's Parliamentary Group is not going to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u117	Thank you, Mr. Castillo. Mr Sixto, for the acceptance or rejection of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u118	We accepted the amendment, as I said in my speech. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u119	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. - OF THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF CONVERGENCE I OF UNION, ON GOVERNMENT POLICY IN THE FIELD OF JUSTICE, PARTICULARIZED IN THE CASE OF TALIDOMID. [[File number 173/000230]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u120	We therefore move on to the motion of urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group on Convergence and Union on the policy of the Government in the face of the injustices of justice, particularly in the case of thalidomide. Mrs Ciuro has the floor for your presentation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise today to take the floor in the second part of the question that we opened a couple of weeks ago in this plenary in defence of the victims of thalidomide. On the day of the interpellation we explained how they had suffered some negligence - a serious negligence we would say - by the Ministry of Health of all times, because although it ruled in 1961 that the medicine containing thalidomide caused very serious malformations in the fetuses and therefore consequences and consequences for life, in Spain it continued to be marketed. We are aware that it was not until 1985 that a ministerial order said that thalidomide or medicinal products containing thalidomide should be prescribed with great caution. It is therefore logical to think that until 1985 it was possible for medicines to be sold in the Spanish State to relieve the nausea of pregnant women containing thalidomide, a medicine that the pharmaceutical company Grünenthal, two years after the marketing of this drug, found that it caused these serious malformations. The struggle of the victims of thalidomide has been very long, it has been an unbridled struggle in defense of legitimate rights and to compensate in some way for the effects of a medication taken by their pregnant mothers, for which they needed the State to protect them. They have seen how on the part of the pharmacist there has not been the necessary receptivity. They have seen how other European countries set out measures in their support and that in the Spanish state things were done but they were lukewarm. The Royal Decree of 2010 must be recognized, which opened a compensation camp for victims born until 1965, but which has been shown to be very short. In fact, the Charles III Institute, which was the one that diagnosed and tested the person concerned to determine whether or not he was a victim of thalidomide, closed the protocol a few years ago. There is, therefore, no assistance today so that people who think they may be victims of this affectation can resort to health for recognition and protection in a completely legitimate claim. Today I rise to the rostrum, as I said, to defend my group's motion and to the satisfaction of having negotiated a text. I would like to thank the two groups, the Socialist Group and the People's Group, for their efforts to reach a consensus text, a consensus text that essentially satisfies my group and gives hope to the victims. What is essential to our group? That it is allowed to evaluate and again open the possibility to see the scope of Royal Decree 1006/2010, of 5 August, that we have agreed that it was short, and thus open the hope to more affected people who could be victims of thalidomide, born beyond the period that encompassed this royal decree, which is from 1960 to 1965. It is possible that now, thanks to this transactional, people who know that they may feel victims of thalidomide can resort to the opening of this evaluation protocol and, moreover, that as a result of the analysis of the implementation of the royal decree and the protocols that in its day established Charles III to determine which people were victims of the drug, they can benefit from the rights that protected the victims that were recognized from 1960 to 1965. At that time it was only 24 persons who were able to receive them and many affected persons in the Spanish State considered it unfair, that there was evidence to support them to determine that the period of assignment had been wider, that is, victims who had been born before 1960 and after 1965 and who remained outside this royal decree. Therefore, today we open a door to hope for these victims. Moreover, there is no less commitment to support the victims in the complaint to the German pharmaceutical company. I believe that feeling the warmth and support in your claim to the German laboratory is positive and that this can lead to progress. The feeling that they will not be alone thanks to this motion will be transferred to the victims and I think it is a good end to the legislature to get a great consensus around this motion. I hope that this compromise will be approved by all groups, because in the end, although it is not what our group intended, we must be aware that the best is the enemy of the good, and what we have achieved today is good and, if it is good and positive, it is in the end that we all work in this House: to make the victims feel protected, to open the royal decree to new assessments, to be able to establish protocols through the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System to set the guidelines to be followed in order to determine these possible new victims. All this is a message of hope for these people who have been waiting so long for a positive response. I thank again the efforts of the groups that have tabled amendments. It has not been easy; nor has it been difficult because goodwill has prevailed in negotiation. My group would like to thank the groups that are going to support this motion, which we hope will be everyone in the House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Ciuro. Two amendments have indeed been tabled. For the defence of the Socialist Group, Mrs Martín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u123	Thank you, President. I rise to the rostrum to set out the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the motion put forward by the Convergence and Union Group. Our position will be favorable, do not hesitate. I send my greetings to the people integrated in the Association of Victims of the Talidomide in Spain who, although not present, informed us of the problems they were suffering. A few days ago, Minister Alonso in this rostrum said: Indeed, the serious disaster of the effects that thalidomide caused while administering to pregnant women is an indignity for the world. And it also said: An indignity that would have to be assumed especially by the company Grünenthal, which did not warn of the side effects that the drug could produce in the fetus, nor did the administrations know how to identify the adverse effects or control the massive administration of the medicine. The Socialist Group shares with all groups the concern about the injustice committed with all those people who were affected, not recognized and now despised by a sentence that we respect but do not share. Injustice is hardly reparable, but our job is to try to find solutions for all those to whom justice has not dealt well, because it is not fair to argue an administrative prescription or it is fair for the injured to assume that the claim of their injuries has been prescribed. The malformations do not prescribe, ladies and gentlemen, and it is fair that we provide them with a solution. The State must feel solidarity with injustice and must provide solutions to those affected, many of whom were harmed, unrecognized and uncompensated as they should be. According to the Spanish Society of Pediatrics, between 1,500 and 3,000 newborns with very diverse malformations have been estimated, many - 40% - died in the first year of life, then only 24 have received financial compensation for the implementation of the Royal Decree of 2010 and it is 184 who recognize the association that represents them. We cannot tolerate that the Grünenthal production company recognizes and compensates those affected by other countries and that the Spanish citizens who suffer the same damage are not recognized and compensated. The evolution of this unworthy story has already been argued in this rostrum. From 1955 to 2015 there have not been many events. From 1955 until 2010, nothing, until Royal Decree 1006 of August 5. It was certainly an important step, but it has proved to be insufficient. It is therefore appropriate to carry out the revision of this decree, to assess its implementation and to rectify it. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be rectified because the damage caused is irreparable and the implementation of the decree may not have been what was intended. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment supplementing that tabled by the Catalan Group. It seems to us essential that the ministry be the mediator with the company that manufactures thalidomide to assume its responsibility as in the rest of the countries, no more or less, as in the rest. We consider it important to evaluate Royal Decree 1006/2010 and to review the protocol applied at the Carlos III Institute, that is, to revise it to modify it as soon as possible, if that is the conclusion. We believe that the exemption from ambulatory pharmaceutical contribution should be applied to those affected, those already identified and those who are being recognized. Finally, we believe that the creation of a state diagnostic unit can be the appropriate instrument for rigorously determining a clear diagnosis of the possible affected, a decision that depends on the interterritorial council, of course. It was our wish that the contributions of the various groups would make it possible for the motion to be adopted unanimously by all groups. We have drawn up a consensus text that we will adopt, and I hope that all of us will. The damage caused by thalidomide has not prescribed, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Martin. Mr Mingo, for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u125	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I am very satisfied, because it has cost us work, but we have come to a compromise. The amendment that my group had tabled had a very clear objective, which was to improve the care of patients and those affected by thalidomide and also to care for their family members. The target couldn't be another one. The most important features of the amendment tabled by my group are, first of all, that I think it is a constructive amendment, because it recognizes what different governments have done, and progress has been made since 2010. Secondly, we need to improve what has been done, and there are demands on the part of those affected, and we need to account for that. Thirdly, the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group, in addition to being constructive and taking into account the needs of this group of people concerned, certainly had a spirit of agreement, because if we all do so together, all the parliamentary groups, I think we will have agreed and achieved a goal of unity that we want to move not only the people concerned but society in general. I believe that consensus is important in policy, and in health policy, much more important. As CiU's spokesman said, which has responsibility for the initiative, the best is the enemy of the good. That's what my surgery teacher used to say to me so many years ago. I share it. I would like to thank Mrs Guadalupe for the excellent amendment made by the Socialist Group. To put it straight in Parliament, we have concluded an agreement that the political groups want, that the ministry wants, that the proposer wants and that those affected want. That is inherently good and for the record I want to read you the compromise amendment. The Congress of Deputies expresses its solidarity with those who suffered bodily malformations during the pregnancy process as a result of the ingestion of thalidomide by the pregnant mother and urges the Government to: 1. Continue to support those who suffered from bodily malformations during the process of pregnancy and solidarity support to the affected persons established in Royal Decree 1006/2010. Two. To ask the laboratory Grünenthal, responsible for the attack on the health of humanity, to assume its responsibility and compensate the victims in Spain as it has done in the rest of the countries, without a court ruling. We thus comply with the unanimous position that the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities accepted in the Interterritorial Council of Social Services and Unit. Three. To propose to the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumers Council of the European Union the harmonisation of compensation to those affected by the company, so that there is no discrimination in compensation on grounds of nationality. 4. Continue to improve coordination between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities in order to improve the benefits provided to the victims of thalidomide. Five. To evaluate the implementation of Royal Decree 1006/2010 of 5 August, and has been commented on by other participants who have preceded me in speaking. Six. To propose to the Autonomous Communities within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System that they be exempted from the contribution of pharmacy. 7. To evaluate the proposals - and the various parliamentary groups have also commented on this - to make progress in the implementation of the cross-border health directive so that those affected can access any treatment unit in the European Union and, finally, to avoid spending time, to carry out a research and epidemiological study that is so important for those affected, and what is more important, so important can be for all citizens who may in the future have pathologies of these characteristics. Ladies and gentlemen, my congratulations to all groups. I'm satisfied. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u126	Thank you, Mr. Mingo. Position-fixing turn. Joint Group, Mr Errekondo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u127	We continue to listen to nice words, but, as far as results are concerned, we will have to ask those affected directly. The Spanish State and its Government are sick and have condemned society to a state of continuous unrest. That's the reality. The absolutist majority of the People's Party has shown us its true cores during these four years, impunity and corruption up to the core, a classist and totalitarian government that does not understand universal responsibility or rights and has dismantled social services and attention to dependence, which has also launched, without any indecentness, the most needy and vulnerable to social exclusion and marginalization. That's the reality. As my colleague Urbina said in the previous debate on the inter-professional minimum wage, it is also worth what he said, and that this problem is also a consequence of the policies that the People's Party Government applies to the benefit of the big business and the banking sector and to the very detriment of people. We say that the solution comes precisely from turning that social and political model around and empowering citizens once and for all to decide on all issues. On thalidomide we have two palpable facts, one, that the German company Grünenthal has been guilty, and so it has been shown, and, moreover, that the responsibility of the Spanish State, out of disdain during all these years, is also evident. But the suffering that continues to suffer the victims of thalidomide is twofold, because, on the one hand, they are suffering the consequences of unscrupulous entrepreneurs and, on the other hand, what is perhaps more serious, they are suffering the disdain and negligence of irresponsible politicians, such as parliamentarians of the People's Party, because after hearing these nice words, we can see that they are also included in the non-law proposal that was passed in the last legislature and which contains very interestingly clear questions, because it reflects the main demands of the plaintiffs. For example - to give three details - the Government fully recognizes the contents of the 2009 claims. I imagine that means that this Government has also known them for at least four years. It also states that there is no official census in Spain, since for fifty years its specific problems were joined by the abandonment by the public authorities. The third is perhaps the most interesting of all: Spain cannot remain the only country insensitive to a demand for redress and just and legitimate compensation for a long time that has passed. Well, that's the result. We are where we are, because two weeks ago the statements of the Minister of Health and Social Services drew attention when he declared that the Minister will continue to collaborate as hitherto with the victims of thalidomide. Does that mean zero commitments and infinite shame and cynicism? That's what's been going on so far. Another example is that of the Socialist Group's parliamentarians, who, after a first step with Royal Decree 1006/2010, seem to have changed the air and forgot about the rest. It may be good for us all to hear what people affected by thalidomide really feel. This is what they say: We have not achieved at institutional level a minimum part of our demands; what has allowed us to know and catalogue each person and parliamentary group according to their commitment, their word and their action. And he goes on to say: All - it refers above all to the two main benches - without exception have deceived us knowing what they were doing; perhaps the most traceable, miserable and ruinous of attitudes - close quotes -. This is literally what they say. As a result, today there is indifference, pride and cynicism of political leaders and, on the other hand, thousands of victims of thalidomide who have been robbed and abandoned and who continue to suffer after sixty years without having received the least recognition or reparation from the Spanish State. I'm finishing up. We repeat that the state is sick and that the dubious 2016 general budgets of this People's Group offer us a black future, mainly in social services for the most vulnerable and needy people. Let us trust in people, because we are sure that the people's response will make it between light and fresh air; of honest people, since - fortunately it is the majority - it does not resign and will face. We are sure that you will win this black future, starting with the elections on 20 December, throwing the government away.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u128	Mr Errekondo, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u129	Secondly, it will force the future government to establish that minimum welfare state that guarantees dignified life. All this makes us see things more clearly from Euskal Herria. Sovereignty is needed to empower people and place them at the centre of politics to ensure social justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u130	Mr Errekondo, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u131	That's the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u132	Thank you very much. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will be brief; I will certainly not consume the time, for a simple reason, because I believe that the most important part of this request has developed when the proposer of Convergence has exposed it. I wonder: has it had to be a motion resulting from the question of Convergence at the end of the legislature that has activated any measures to solve the problem of thalidomide in Spain? I mean, where has he been so far? I believe that the compromise is clearly very good, the words that have been said are very good, but what happens, that if there had not been this motion, the Government and the People's Party would not have realized that there was a huge problem of people affected by thalidomide since the 1960s? This gives me a lot to think about. I will not begin to explain, as others have done, all the background, the whole story, because we all know it, no one discusses it. [[what happened to thalidomide, medicine, what was forbidden, laboratories Grünenthal, all consequences, malformations, pregnant women]] There is no doubt about what produced it, who produced it and why these people have the malformations; and, above all, because we all know the vital experiences of the people who suffered it, because they have visited us all, because they have been with all, they have explained to us the problems they have, that they had in their day, they continue to have and that many companions - to say it openly - of suffering are suffering greatly, although others did not because they did not manage to tell it since they died. Therefore, one of the main issues - which I thank the proposer of the motion - is that it is valid for visibility, because every fair time there appears a motion, a non-law proposal or something similar that allows visibility of the situation of these people. I fully agreed with the original proposal put forward by Convergence, so much so that I was going to vote in favour of it in its terms, but now I have a doubt. Obviously, I recognize the need for a compromise and a consensus but - Mr Mingo has said that the best is usually the enemy of the good and it is often said that better something than nothing - unfortunately, I have the experience of a few years in Congress to know that sometimes that something later is nothing. What should we do to ensure that this thing that we all put in common doesn't become anything later? It's like when everyone agrees on who has to be the third prize in a contest, they don't agree on the first or the second but they do on the third. In this case it may be that this thing that we all have in common does not compromise anything, no one feels obliged to do anything specific and in the end stays in water of drunkards. Obviously, my group will support what you have proposed, but it seems to me that real commitments... Because, what is it to continue to support the victims of thalidomide? It is a wonderful phrase, to continue supporting, but when it comes time to write what it is to support, nothing appears. Therefore, of course, I agree to continue to support them; I would be prepared to determine how to compensate these people and - as is said - to acknowledge by the Ministry of Health and on behalf of the Spanish State the serious historical error of failing to proceed with the diligent withdrawal of drugs from the market, as was stated in the original proposal. We agree that we should do something more than what is being done to these people. We have all heard the story, the experiences of these people and I think they deserve that once and for all the government of turn assumes the responsibility that it has as representative of the Spanish State that did what it did at the time...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u134	Mr. Agirretxea, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u135	It must therefore assume that consequence. My group will support the text that comes out but that we would have liked an agreement of greater compromise and less words. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u136	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, therefore, when it comes to necessity, justice and reparation, delay and inaction are not acceptable. In Spain, the victims of thalidomide have no compensation whatsoever, but in the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden or Portugal. In the United Kingdom, in fact, a fund has been set up to help them; in Germany they are entitled to a lifetime pension. These differences affect the equal treatment and rights of all Europeans. At the end of September, a Supreme Court ruling was issued that involved a quack to the claims of the thalidomide victims. The ruling on thalidomide raised the suspicion that playing with people's lives had no consequences whatsoever. They have been fighting for more than fifty years, most of them in democracy, and with good will a problem is not solved for so long unresolved. With this proposal, which we are voting on today, we are really starting a path, but after all this time there is no solution to a problem which they are dragging away. We are going to vote in favour of this proposal - we say it now - but I will give a little thought. When the ruling came out a few weeks ago, the People's Party said it would be legal but not fair and the PSOE called for recognition of the unfair situation of the victims of thalidomide and reparation for the consequences. That's very good. In the Senate, of 264 senators - I have been counting -, 153 are from the PP, 66 are from the PSOE and 13 are from CiU, so they have more than a majority left so that in this parliamentary procedure of the budgets that it is now finalizing - just as when we came the legislation of the third sector introduced a series of concrete aids - give a content to this goodism, give an economic content, give an effective solution to the victims of thalidomide. [[The Lord]] Finally, I will sum it up in a very simple way. This isn't going to talk to the pharmaceutical company so she can take care of things, no. It is the State that has to pay the people who are affected by the disease the amount that is supposed to be paid and the amount that is to be fought with the pharmaceutical company. In this way we will really give a solution to a problem that has been dragging away for more than 50 years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u138	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. United Left Group, Plural Left. Mrs Castaño, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u139	Thank you very much, President. The debate on thalidomide is again addressed from this rostrum. This issue, as you know, has been discussed on several occasions in both the Commission and in plenary and at the initiative of various parliamentary groups. Today comes the debate at the hand of the motion presented by the Convergence Group i d ́Unió, and it does so after we know the Supreme Court's ruling which, as you also know, leaves the victims of thalidomide without compensation for considering that it has prescribed the time they had to claim the pharmaceutical company. It is a sentence that we obviously do not share; instead, we share and make our own the perplexity, anger and indignation of the group of people affected by this sentence which, obviously, like us, they consider unfair. That means that, in referring to this sentence, like the proposing group, we are talking about the injustices of justice. Affected persons, sons and daughters of pregnant women, mainly in the fifties and sixties, but also later, consumed a drug confident that it was apparently safe and harmless but that, far from it, caused, as you know, serious malformations to their sons and daughters. There were babies victims of that great global catastrophe who were growing up and who in the case of Spain had to face the problems and difficulties arising from their situation and who had and have to overcome the difficulties of daily life with the sole or mainly support of their nearest circle, because until 2009 or 2010, fifty years after the first cases - that is nothing - the Spanish State did not adopt measures that, although they were clearly insufficient, implied the first recognition of these people. They were victims of a company, Grünenthal, which was much more concerned about selling the product and obtaining benefits for its marketing than about studying its effects; victims of a company that commercialized a product that proved to be highly dangerous and that was dispensed in an irresponsible way; victims of a pharmaceutical company that still refuses to recognize and repair the damage caused today. There is therefore responsibility for German pharmaceuticals; Grünenthal's responsibility for what happened at the time and for forcing the victims into a long judicial process by adding even more pain. There must obviously be a demand on the Grünenthal laboratory that it fulfil its duty and indemnify the victims in a fair manner outside the court rulings; this is because, by making my own the words of the president of the Association of Talidomide Victims, the Spanish courts have not dismissed the claim because the devastating damage that then caused the babies - which they certainly do - has not been proved, but simply because they consider that we have demanded late. There is responsibility for pharmaceuticals, but also for the Spanish State. A democratic State, a State sensitive to the interests and needs of its citizens, cannot and must not be shielded from pharmaceuticals. The State failed; it did not protect its citizens; it did not put in place adequate means to ensure that it would not continue to be administered, once the consequences of thalidomide were known. He tolerated the silence that surrounded the people who suffered the consequences of thalidomide and forgot them for years. We are going to support the initiative presented for this reason; we thought we would give it its origin and we are going to give it also in this case with the transactions that have been raised. Despite what has been said above, after Mr Mingo's intervention we cannot but repeat that, of course, it is not logical to allow four years to pass, given the absolute majority of the People's Party; all this initiative could have developed it from the very beginning if it was so interesting and necessary to find it. In any case, in conclusion, I would like to recall - already mentioned in some speeches - the Association of Talalidomide Victims in Spain; I would like to do so in order to thank you for your work, for your constancy. They are an example of the good people of this country who fight, fight every day and are not willing to forget their history; do not allow society to look elsewhere or allow the State to shrink from its shoulders. To them, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castaño. A compromise amendment has been tabled which is going to be put to the vote, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u141	We turn to the next item on the agenda, the amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft law regulating the social protection of persons working in the maritime-fisheries sector. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak from the seat to express our satisfaction. I move forward as we are going to vote in favour of the amendments that come from the Senate to this bill. I should like to make explicit reference to the importance of the Senate's recognition of redundancies as workers of the sea in order to be protected by this law. Although the redundancies were collected, it's not exactly the same. If we are interested, ladies and gentlemen, in referring to this group of women who work in networking and then working at sea, it is because in Galicia we have a very remarkable experience of the important work of this group of women and we wanted their activity to be recognized within that of sea workers, so that they would have the right to social security, unemployment, etc. In addition, the work done by this group of redemptive women has forced them to make a huge associative effort to form a cooperative that would make these recognitions effective. If we want to point this out, it is because, while this group of redemptive women is currently being recruited as persons to be protected by the law that we are going to pass today, it is essential to state that this group is still having problems. After overcoming this situation of non-recognition as a work activity of sea workers, today they suffer from problems of intrusiveness and of submerged economy, and from this comes the difficulties they have to deal with these payments and expenses for the regularization of this collective. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are extremely pleased with this recognition in the law adopted today, but we keep pointing out that the problems continue and that we hope that they will be resolved in the future. Thank you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Please, ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of all the amendments tabled to this bill in the Senate, including those of the People's Group, on which we have the impression that the People's Group, against an act of its own, is going to vote unfavorably. These are amendments that stem from a transaction with our parliamentary group and seek to place in the protection of the special regime of sea workers groups made up exclusively of women working in the port, who do not work in the sea. We do this on a day like today, which has a special meaning, a special symbolism for women, when we are going to proclaim, to make, in the form of an institutional declaration, an affirmation of the empowerment of girls and, therefore, of women. It is the worst day to pre-empt, to marginalize women, who are not many, who work with great sacrifice, who are not framed by work, who charge the part, but whose relations are labor and, therefore, have - this is absolutely necessary right - to be protected by this special social security regime, the regime for the protection of women workers at sea, not only because of their status as women but also because of their status as historically marginalized women, because of their status as women who have been partially marginalized by amendments tabled by the People's Group in the Senate and of which the People's Group is going to abdicate or resign. I repeat, it is the worst day for a renunciation of these characteristics when this House is going to make an institutional declaration on the empowerment of women. We are punishing women; we are punishing women who work in conditions of extreme toxicity, of penosity, in truly distressing environmental conditions, apart from being unworkable, not paying their wages on an ordinary basis, but on the part, as is the case in fishing activities, but whose relations are labor and are not protected. We are strongly drawn to this change, so we want to hear from the spokesman for the People's Group what are the reasons for the withdrawal of amendments from the People's Group itself; we want to hear whether this withdrawal of its amendments is going to occur on a day like today - it also affects the Basque ports, the Galician ports, the Cantabrian ports fundamentally - in which we have finally resolved a historic dispute, a historical problem, a historical dysfunction, a historical aggravation that fundamentally affects women, the day that this House simultaneously proclaims through an institutional act the empowerment of women. Let us hope that this does not happen and that the People's Group will be consistent with what it has adopted in the Senate and that the location of the nets, packaging machines and reeds will be maintained within the scope of protection not of the autonomous regime, but even - we would dare to say - of a regime in which protection is more intense, of the general regime. It will probably be argued that the Social Institute of the Navy refutes or has an opinion contrary to the location of this collective in this special regime for the protection of workers of the sea, but it is not true. I have a document in which the Social Institute of the Navy believes that not only does it believe that they should be protected through the self-employed and group 3 systems, as envisaged in the transacted amendment, but that they should be protected with a greater degree of intensity in the general social security system. Mr President, we are particularly interested - although it may seem like a paradox what I am going to tell you - in voting on the amendments adopted in the Senate by the Group of the European People's Party that have been fucked by our parliamentary group. [[The Lord]] There are other problems of a competitive nature in this draft law that have justified the submission of amendments relating to the very nature of the Social Institute of the Navy, which is a sort of microcosm of the whole of Social Security, where benefits are provided, where vocational training and employment promotion acts are carried out, some of which are incardinated in the active policies already transferred to Euskadi. They have not been taken into consideration; we are not going to emphasize very much the defence of these amendments which have not been taken into consideration but which have been taken into account. I repeat, on a day like today, when we are going to proceed institutionally to declare an act of empowerment of women, we should above all carry out acts of empowerment of the most vulnerable women, of whom they are in worse working conditions, of whom they have historically been aggrieved by a legal order which has been particularly unfair with them. The matter has been settled in the Senate. I just hope, Mr President - with this I finish my words - that the issue will not be destroyed in the Congress of Deputies.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u146	Thank you, President. The bill that is now being amended by the Senate on maritime-fishery workers has been one of the few bills that was negotiated in the Commission with the participation of all parliamentary groups; there was a willingness to accept amendments that improved the original text and therefore left Congress with broad support from the various parliamentary groups. Amendments have been made in the Senate that improve some aspects and have continued to be kept, as we could not expect, aside from some of the amendments proposed by our parliamentary group. However, as has already been pointed out, our group is pleased that this bill, now back from the Senate, has been improved in some respects, although it is obviously not the perfect law that any parliamentary group would want because it would be its law. It will receive the support of our parliamentary group. We believe - and we have already said this at the time and we reiterate this - that this should have been the course of the majority group, of the Group of the People's Party, which in this case demonstrated its willingness to make a law that improves a sector of workers, because, because of its uniqueness in their own work, because of the risk they take and because of the diversity of cases of work that are regulated in this project, it required the updating of an old law that already lasted more than twenty years. Our parliamentary group has contributed to this and we will support it at this point in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u148	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the final stage of the legislative show to which Mr Rajoy's Government, with the support of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, has submitted to the Congress of Deputies and the Senate in this legislature. A show that has led to the processing of almost forty bills in the last five months; that have brought some legislative reforms to this Congress of Deputies for the fourth or fifth time in these months; or as at the point we are debating, that we are repealing laws or rules of the sixties and seventies by the urgency procedure, when we have had the whole legislature for a rigorous, serene and timely debate. This bill affects individuals and families who make a living at sea. That is why we do not understand the attitude and lack of sensitivity of the parliamentary group that supports the Government and, therefore, in the process both in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate, our group tabled different amendments, most of which were not taken up by the People's Party. We do not understand, and therefore we question, how it can be justified that port operators or operators of companies carrying out loading master or captains of loading and unloading on oil platforms, for example, are excluded from the application of this bill. It should be borne in mind that many of the refineries have as their workers sea-labelled personnel engaged in docking and assembly work at canals not located in the port, but on floating docks or establishing connections to canals outside the port service. Therefore, we do not understand that being sea workers are excluded from the application of this bill. The same applies to workers who carry out fishing observer and safety activities on board a ship... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u149	I'm sorry, Mr. Pérez Moya. Please, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u150	... in fishing vessels or merchants like the rest of the crew; or what also happens to the dockers, it is not taken into account that the Supreme Court, the Social Chamber, in its judgment of 15 April 2003 considered that if the workers carry out stowage work and refuse in the port activity, their framing in the special regime cannot be conditioned under any circumstances derived from the company in which they provide services and are not regarded as workers of the maritime-fishery sector. Gentlemen of the People's Group, how do you justify it? This is one of the main deficits in this bill, and let me tell you that you have an arbitrary perception when it comes to saying yes or no. It's just that you don't understand it from the most rational point of view. As I said before, we are repealing laws or rules of the sixties and seventies and what is not understood is how it is not further refined in the definition of the categories of jobs that must be incorporated into the maritime-fishery sector, and I have set as an example that of port practices because I believe that it is unappealable. The work carried out in the maritime-fishery field today is not the same as it was in the 1960s or 1970s. For all this, our group has tabled different amendments thinking of all those people who work at sea and whom you have not wanted to accept. We have tabled amendments to extend social protection to excluded groups. We have proposed to extend protection to the beneficiary family members up to the third degree of consanguinity or affinity, as already regulated today in article 3 of Decree 2530/1970 of 20 August, which regulates the special social security scheme for self-employed or self-employed workers and includes the spouse and relatives by consanguinity or affinity up to the third degree. We have also tabled amendments that have raised the legal regulation of incompatibility of pensions and that the conditions for entitlement to benefits are the same as those currently in force under the general scheme and the self-employed scheme. We have tabled amendments to prevent a legislative technique from leading to the loss of a right or to avoid misunderstandings with the existing legal regulation as regards incompatibility of pensions, entitlement to benefits and maternity benefits. We have also tabled amendments to give seafarers who work for others the same rights as workers in the general scheme in the area of unemployment benefit. Similarly, we have proposed that self-employed seafarers should be given the same rights as self-employed workers in respect of termination benefits. We have also tabled amendments to ensure the participation of fishermen's confreres in the bodies involved in the management of the Social Institute of the Navy. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have sought to give effect to the legal right to be workers of the sea in the twenty-first century. That is why we have tabled amendments thinking of the people and families living in the sea and, frankly, we do not understand that most of them have not been accepted. That is why we cannot vote in favour, even if we recognise that there have been improvements. The speakers who have spoken earlier have made a clear defense of the recognition of women in the work of the sea, but from our group we consider these improvements insufficient. We will vote in favour of the amendments that come from the Senate, but I insist that the whole text seems insufficient to us. That is why, I repeat, we cannot vote in favour. I'm done. Fortunately, the legislative show is over and with the new year a new way of understanding the legislative policy that takes into account the real plurality of Parliament and citizens will be incorporated into this Parliament. A parliament without absolute majorities, that makes legislative policy from the rigour of arguments and debate, as well as from the proposals of the different groups seeking complicity, pact and consensus if possible. A new form of policy that regains the credibility of this institution before the citizens, credibility laminated in this legislature by the abuse of the absolute majority of the People's Party, a majority that will surely be overthrown by the vote of citizens, of people like the workers of the sea, who today, with the passage of the bill that comes from the Senate, will see how they are discriminated against - some yes, others not - according to the whim of the absolute majority of the People's Party. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking from the seat simply to congratulate Mr Olabarriía and the Basque Group because finally this bill expressly reflects the recognition of the social protection of the neskatillas and packaging companies. This is an issue that the Basque Nationalist Party has been raising for a long time, on which commitments had even been made by various majorities that could not be transferred to the legislative texts, and, finally, in this draft law, those women workers who respond uniquely to the productive fabric of fishing in Euskadi will be guaranteed social protection. Nor is the fact that they are not only included in the social security protection system, but are expressly recognised as requiring specific reduction coefficients. It is therefore recognized that such professional activities involve an effort that makes it difficult for these people to reach the ordinary retirement age. Only that would justify the satisfaction of Democratic Convergence with this procedure with regard to a bill that we have already adopted in the Commission. We therefore reiterate today that it seems to us that it is in the right direction, although obviously there are still outstanding issues. One of these issues would be that raised by Convergence Democrática, the result of the inspiration of our colleague, Mr Pàramo, deputy for the demarcation of Girona and former mayor of Rosas - an important fishing port in Catalonia - regarding the recognition of the specificities that affect fishing in the Mediterranean area. Often, in the legal treatment of fisheries policies, and also in social protection policies, the legislative look, the policy look, is focused on the Cantabrian area, but often the needs of Mediterranean fishermen are different. There, inspired - I insist - by Mr Pàramo, we put forward an amendment that was not incorporated, but there was some kind of commitment on the part of the majority group to respond through non-legislative proposals to that question. We will insist on that. In any case, today's Senate amendments will count on the support of Democratic Convergence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rumí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u154	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to establish the position on the amendments adopted in the Senate to this bill. I am already advancing our position in support of these amendments, but it is support that needs an explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that this law, which was necessary and which we support - as has already been said here - in this House, in the Committee on Employment and Social Security, could and should have been more ambitious and solved some problems which have once again become ambiguous. It is true that it has been a project with a high degree of consensus, and it has been because this law was necessary and has been understood by all groups in this House. The purpose of this law was to clarify issues of social security, fishermen and seafarers. The law as a whole is good, but there are some aspects that have not been clarified and that have been derived from further studies. This could have been avoided, ladies and gentlemen, if it had been faced before and not at the end of the legislature, which has made the Government's haste not to improve it among all. This law affects sectors very important to the economy of Spain, with a lot of tradition in many of our autonomous communities, sectors that have suffered in a cruel way in recent years from the crisis and it is also necessary to add the suffering and complicated conditions in which they develop their work: the hardness of the conditions on board, the isolation of the crews, sometimes spend very long periods of time away from their homes, high rates of sinestrality, inclemencies of the time that prevent them from going out fishing or that produce them to return without obtaining catches, but still have to continue paying social security and all taxes. All these reasons and many more, ladies and gentlemen, together with those of expanding the social conditions of these workers, were more than enough to try to improve them with this law. Throughout the express processing of this law we have defended some very important aspects for the sector, such as the inclusion in the accounting period of the contributions of those who have been on board for many months, away from the families... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u155	I'm sorry, Mrs. Rumí. Please don't make groups. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u156	... for illness or the cause of accidents. Other shortcomings might have been resolved, but the Government's readiness to do so has made it impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a good opportunity that has been missed to complete this initiative which has shown that when the government wanted it to be possible, and of course it was thanks to the availability and willingness of all the parliamentary groups to make possible an agreement on this project. A bill regulating the social protection of workers in the maritime fisheries sector. This bill had to have been addressed long before, both in terms of integrating scattered legislation and modernizing or updating social protection, incorporating professional sectors that were not included. But, ladies and gentlemen, more dialogue has been lacking, more time has been lacking; dialogue with the parliamentary groups, with the sectors concerned, and also that it would have been part of the social dialogue, but this could not have been because its processing has been done in the last days of the parliamentary term that is about to end. The Toledo Pact recommended moving towards two regimes, that of others and that of self-account, and no progress has been made in the full integration of the regime of sea workers, as mandated by the Toledo Pact itself. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be done in the next parliamentary term and it will be done with another government. I would also like to say that the Socialist Group's vote in favour is out of a sense of responsibility, because for us commitment to the citizens is the only option, it is our priority, and this exception has not been the rule of the legislature. Dialogue with the Government and still the majority in this Congress has not existed in any way, because the dialogue and the will to agree have not been the lanes on which the train of the Executive and the People's Party has circulated in these four years of government, quite the opposite. They have confused the legitimacy granted them by the ballot boxes with the imposition and even the systematic exercise of arrogance from a position of power. And it is regrettable that the major reforms of Social Security have been made only with their votes, that all the major reforms that have been made of Social Security have been made only with their votes. The Toledo Pact has been carried out in this legislature without agreement and without consensus; in the next one, the rest of the parliamentary groups are committed to regaining all those reforms and, therefore, regaining all those rights. You, gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, have made it clear that you do not believe in dialogue, that you do not have a willingness to agree, and let me tell you that this is going to happen to you and that is going to happen to you on 20 December, because the citizens know the use - better, the misuse - that you have given them to the confidence that you gave them in the last elections, and this is going to be seen very soon. I anticipate that with a new majority led by the Socialist Party, understanding and dialogue will return to this House, and you, already from the opposition, will have to decide whether to remain in the politics of confrontation or to regenerate and take another path, that of moderation. Spain needs a policy change, but also a change in attitudes. It needs more room for agreement and democratic banishment of the crisp as a way of understanding and practicing politics. Ladies and gentlemen, that will be good for Spain and will therefore be good for all the citizens of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rumí. For the People's Group, Mr García Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u158	The Government, with this bill to which the spokesmen who have spoken before me have referred, has in fact intended to do and wants to succeed in putting an end today to all the parliamentary procedure, is to deepen a social commitment to all the workers of the sea, be they men, be they women, be they expressly mentioned or not, with the whole maritime-fishery sector of Spain, and wants to improve and extend the social conditions of this whole broad collective. [[Applauds]] In fact, this law is not too late, Mrs. Rumí. If you're late, it's because for eight years you didn't change anything about everything that affected this important group. He's not late. [[Applauds]] Besides, it's curious that they tell us they're late and that we're handling it in a hurry. I have already told you in the Commission with full legislative competence that, when it comes to improving and deepening social issues, for this government all the haste you have is few, all the haste has been few, and it has been approved because it was a commitment of this government to achieve these social improvements that you were unable even to raise. I will remind you very briefly of the objectives of this bill, which will soon be a law. It is considered new to include research staff, fishing observers and security personnel in these groups. They all perform their duties on board vessels. It also includes professional divers, who so far were not; as has been said here, rederos and rederas, port practitioners, staff on fixed platforms and a long et cetera. Here I make a small introduction to an issue raised by the PNV spokesman and others. The fact that one of these groups is not directly mentioned does not mean that they are no longer - because they are - and I mean the neskatillas and packaging companies - in the special social security scheme for sea workers. They're from the beginning, from their origin. It is only necessary to consult the ministerial orders that are published each year, where the bases of contribution are set for all these groups, and there they are expressly cited. Now, as I said a moment ago, I am convinced that there will be formulas - the Government will also know how to find them - to be able to polish or nuance some of these issues that your honourable Members have raised in the amendments that were discussed throughout the process of passing this law. But let's make things clear. The People's Parliamentary Group tabled in the Senate, at the plenary session on 29 September, a compromise amendment which sought to include the Neskatillas and Packers for the province of Vizcaya, which is where this group is considered to be represented, and it was precisely its group that refused to process that compromise amendment. Therefore, political will existed in the Government and in the People's Parliamentary Group in the Senate. It was others who did not accept the transaction. I have also heard some statements which contrast, to put it mildly, with some of the qualifications that I was able to hear during the procedure we held in the Committee on Employment and Social Security last August. And so my memory doesn't betray me, I'm going to quote them expressly. The following statements are contained in the 'Diary of Sessions': we appreciate the approach that the People's Group has taken to us by proposing the adoption of some amendments. Today, the spokesman for the Plural Left told us that they do not understand the attitude of the People's Parliamentary Group. Another statement at the time: the Group of the European People's Party and its rapporteurs have made an effort to incorporate amendments from all the parliamentary groups. My group appreciates that and that attitude will finally lead us to support the bill. The spokesman for the Convergence and Union Group said so. And from the Socialist Group we were told - it was Mrs López i Chamosa, who has not intervened before - that this is a law that is not bad, that as a whole and with nuances is good. We have now been told that it should have been approved a long time ago. Another statement: only the will of the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group will enable us to vote on this law. And today we were told that we were in a lot of haste from the government. Finally, I believe that this change of attitude or these contrasts can probably only obey those pre-election winds that are already blowing and that have swept away those claims of the month of August. I am sure that, although I have reminded you here and you have not wanted to quote them, you still think the same thing as you said in the Commission. During her passage through the Senate - Mrs Fernández Davila has also referred to this - there has been an improvement, and some of the amendments concern the inclusion of the term redeams. We said in the Commission that it was not necessary, that in the genre rederos were included both, male and female, but I am personally glad that the term redores has been included because there are many women - it is the most numerous collective within this profession - who work in very harsh conditions every day of the year. I'm going to finish, Mr. President. I'm not going to say good-bye - many others have said good-bye - others will say good-bye anyway, but I'm not going to say good-bye. [[Applauds]] I don't know if you'll remember how this legislature began, which is about to end. The first ordinary plenary session of four years ago began with a non-legislative proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group, which I had the honour of defending. It was the first item on the agenda. This was a fisheries issue and we urged the Government to achieve a better fisheries agreement with Morocco, which the Socialist Government had been unable to achieve. Now that we are finishing this legislature, it is also the maritime-fishery sector that occupies us. Casualty? I don't know. What I do know is that during the whole legislature there have been many legislative matters and many actions of the Government that have valued the commitment to this very important sector socially and economically in our Spain, in all the communities of Spain. In short, the problems and concerns of all the people of the sea in Spain have been and will continue to be a priority for this parliamentary group and for this Government. Now I'm done, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the level of participation in the consultation period of this entire bill has been very broad, say what is said. The degree of consensus has been very reasonable, say what is said. The number of amendments to the joint text was very small. There were no amendments to the whole. There has been a willingness - which I have tried to remember - to reach agreements, and this has been achieved because of the attitude we have sought from the People's Group to reach consensus, which you so much like to say that the People's Group is not a friend of consensus. Important consensus has been reached in this law. We have had to reject some amendments that were not in place or that were in contravention of regulations. All rapporteurs have been provided with the information they needed in a hurry or without haste, but they have been provided with all the necessary information to understand why their amendments were accepted or rejected. We have shared and I believe that we share most of the content and objectives of this law. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me once again, and this last time, to ask you for a clear support for this bill, not without first thanking my fellow Members of the Senate, rapporteurs also in this bill, Mrs Carolina Spain and Mrs María Jesús Susinos, for the work they have done together with me in this bill. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr Olabarría Muñoz asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u159	Thank you very much, Mr García Díez. Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u160	Under Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, for having been contradicted by the spokesman for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u161	I don't think this is the time to start... If you think you've been mentioned in something personal, say so. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u162	I would like to highlight the contradiction of the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group in stating that the fact that packaging, reeds and neskatillas are not specifically mentioned does not constitute a lack of protection under the bill that we are finalizing to discuss at this time. If you are quoted, you are quoted by way of an amendment tabled by you. They are expressly stated. We ask you only one thing, that you do not vote against your own amendments. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mr. García Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u164	Mr Olabarría, I have already explained to you that we offered a pact through a compromise amendment in the Senate and it was your group that did not want to compromise, the only group because the others signed it. Please don't tell me what you just said about protection because you know perfectly well that with the social partners this government had a commitment not to touch the reducing coefficients at all, and this law does not touch them at all. Therefore, do not tell me that we are the ones who are going to vote against what you want us to vote on. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u165	We will proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution. In place of Dona Angelina Costa, I ask Don Mateo Luna Alcaide whether he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u166	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u167	In place of don José Antonio Viera Chacón, I ask dona María Luisa Sánchez Trancoso if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u168	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u169	Don Mateo Luna and dona María Luisa Sánchez Trancoso have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u170	The Secretary will first read the Institutional Declaration signed by all groups on the occasion of the International Day of the Girl Child.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u171	On the occasion of the International Day of the Child, held on 11 October, an institutional declaration signed by all political groups had been sent to the Presidency. The statement reads: This Parliament calls on the international community to put the rights of girls at the centre of political agendas and to give them greater opportunities for participation in decision-making centres. It is also requested to ensure their access to quality, free and universal secondary education for at least three years. Investing in girls is smart and the benefit of their empowerment is not just a matter of rights. For two years this Parliament has been reiterating its support for the causes of girls, such as the eradication of early forced marriage, which was reflected in the resolution adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 17 November 2014. Today, we recall that there are other causes of vulnerability, including female genital mutilation, pre-teen pregnancy or any other manifestation of violence against them in accordance with sustainable development goals. Today, more than ever, this Parliament supports the participation of girls in decisions that affect their lives and that will give them an opportunity to have a more dignified future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u173	Takes into consideration the proposed law of the Plural Left Group regulating the embargo or suspension of arms trade with invasive or occupying States of territories or States. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 327 plus 1 telematic vote, 328; in favour, 22; against, 185; abstentions, 120 plus 1 telematic vote, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u174	It's not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u175	Proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union concerning the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage. It incorporates an amendment from the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 152 against, 174 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u176	It's rejected. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS AND OF IU, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL AND THE LORD'S KEY BALDOVI, RELATING TO VERIFICATION OF THE SIGNIFICANT EFFECTS THAT ARE CAUSED BY THE DIFFERENT POLICIES COMMITTED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE NATION, BY THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 20/2012, AS WELL AS THE RESTRICTIVE MEASURES OF THE STATE'S GENERAL BUDGET LAW FOR THE PUBLIC BUSINESS SECTOR, DEPENDING ON THE GROUP OF THE SPANISH INDUSTRIAL PARTICIPATION GROUP, SEPI. [[File number 162/001260]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u177	No law proposal of the Socialist Group, of the Plural Left and of Mr Baldoví on reversing the serious effects that are causing the different policies implemented by the Government of the Nation through the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, as well as the restrictive measures of the Law on General Budgets of the State for the public business sector that depends on the group of the Spanish Society of Industrial Participations, SEPI. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 151 against, 173 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u178	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u179	Motion by the Socialist Group on the review of employment policy in the 10th parliamentary term. An amendment by the Basque Group, PNV, has been incorporated. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 131 against, 176 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u180	It's rejected. - OF IU'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, ON MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT IN THIS RECOGNIATION SITUATION OF REFUGEES. [[File number 173/000229]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u181	The Plural Left motion on measures the Government intends to take in the current refugee situation. An amendment by the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union is incorporated. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 41 against, 175 abstentions, 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u182	It's rejected. - OF THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF CONVERGENCE I OF UNION, ON GOVERNMENT POLICY IN THE FIELD OF JUSTICE, PARTICULARIZED IN THE CASE OF TALIDOMID. [[File number 173/000230]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u183	Motion of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union on government policy in the face of injustices of justice, particularly in the case of thalidomide. The vote was taken on the terms of a compromise amendment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 319 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u184	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u185	Senate amendments to the draft law regulating the social protection of persons working in the maritime-fisheries sector. Firstly, amendments to Article 4 as regards paragraph 1(f). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 326 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u186	They're approved. Amendments to Article 4 as regards points (h) and (i) of paragraph 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 152 against, 174 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u187	They're rejected. Amendments to Article 10.1.2(c) as regards the expression nescatillas and packaging machines. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 149 against, 175 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u188	They're rejected. Remaining amendments to Article 10.1.2(c). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The vote was taken, he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u189	They shall be adopted unanimously. Amendments to the fourth additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes in favour, 150 against, 173 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u190	They're rejected. Rest of amendments to the bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 325 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-13-CD151013.u191	They're approved. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and forty-five minutes of the night.
