ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and agreed upon by the Board of Spokesmen, I would like to inform you that item 27 of the agenda, concerning the direct and single reading of the proposed organic law on the reform of the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October, will be discussed as the first matter at the Thursday session, while the decree-law will become the second point. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u2	Proposal for a law of the Socialist Group on the universalization of the right to public health care. For the presentation of the initiative and its defence, Mrs Gallego has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group to defend once again - and there are many - the universalisation of public health care. And I say once again because the interventions of my party and the rest of the parliamentary groups throughout this legislature are innumerable to try to convince the absolute majority of the People's Party to reverse one of the most unjust, most ineffective, most anti-social, most anti-political decisions and I would say that they are more cruel, the unilateral decision that the People's Party took in April 2012 to change our health model, to break the health pact that had been given to the different parties that represent all the citizens of Spanish territory over almost thirty years, since a socialist government passed the General Health Act. A PNL was presented in April 2014 by Socialist spokesman Pepe Martínez Olmos - by the way, thanks very much to comrade Pepe for his great parliamentary work - but that PNL was rejected alone by the majority of the People's Party; it has insisted on the different appearances, but it has given exactly the same. Royal Decree 16/2012 of 20 April, called in a rumbling way for urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the National Health System, will go into history as an example of what should not be done in politics and it will be essential to have historical memory in order not to repeat this tremendous error of excluding people from public health care with public funds. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you alone have charged yourself with the constitutional right to health protection set out in Article 43 of our Constitution and which literally, in point 1, says that the right to health protection is recognized and, in point 2, speaks of the competence of the public authorities to organize and protect public health through preventive measures and necessary services and services. It does not say our Constitution that to have the right to health protection must be assured, it is inconceivable. They have also ignored the constitutional protection measures contained in article 43, which prohibits the adoption of decree-laws that affect the right to health protection. From the very beginning, this royal decree has had the opposition and unanimous rejection of broad sectors of professional associations, non-governmental organizations, parties, trade unions and civil society; in particular, it has had very hard reports from the Office of the Ombudsman, which is precisely designated, pursuant to Article 54 of our Constitution, as the High Commissioner of the General Courts for the Defence of the Rights set out in Title I. The more we read about the development of this royal decree - especially when it is already possible to assess its effects after three years - the greater is the conviction of the enormous amount it has entailed at all levels. The most surprising thing - no longer, we are no longer surprised at anything - is the impeccability to move forward with its development, to talk about its goodness by highlighting even presidents and presidents of autonomous communities governed by the People's Party who no longer know how to defend what is indefensible. At this point in the legislature we can already assess the effects and consequences for citizens of health policy, which has made health a part of the public's concerns. What was born to make our National Health System sustainable has become a weapon of destruction of our public system with a clear goal, which is to open the juicy health business. It is also very curious that those who have to evaluate the impact, those who have to evaluate the results of this reform, which is the Ministry of Health, have not done so. Three years after the announcement of the measure as the salvation of our National Health System, we find ourselves with a very clear underfunding of it, with more than 21 billion euros of cuts, with an accumulated debt of 28 billion euros, with 17 different health systems, with a great administrative burgeoning and with difficulties in part of the population to access treatments for the co-pays imposed. We are being told every day by retirees, chronically ill people, people with disabilities, people with rare diseases, and you too are being told. Equity in access to public health has been lost. Citizens depend more on where they are born or live than on the right of citizenship itself. They have dropped the main arguments or excuses they have maintained to implement this decree, such as that reforms were necessary, such as the socialist heritage or the pilgrim idea of controlling the fraud of health tourism. By the way, I'm going to define what health tourism is. It is defined as traveling to city or country to receive some kind of treatment, medical care such as surgery, rehabilitation treatments, aesthetics or spa. Can you really claim that those excluded in Spain from the health card came to do health tourism, to relax at a spa or to make a liposuction? If you can support it, tell Alpha Pam's family, for example, the Senegalese youth who died of tuberculosis in 2013 for not having a health card. Above all, there is a very clear violation of the universal right to health. These days we are ashamed of the report of more than 300 organizations that make up Reder, among them Doctors of the World and SemFYC, on more than 1,000 documented cases between January 2014 and July 2015. In the end, and this report says so, there is a genuine system of generalized exclusion, which is far from universal and clearly deviates from the guiding principles defined by our National Health System in 1983. It is surprising that the ministry's response is that it does not know this report; it is surprising that it insists that those who do not receive health care must sue it and that they are left with so many problems, because their obligation is to know the bureaucratic and administrative difficulties faced every day by the uninsured and, therefore, the excluded. In 2015, the election year begins with a change of face in the ministry. Mrs Mato is replaced by Mr Alonso, who certainly raised expectations, but in the end we note that these expectations of change remain in mere pre-election announcements, such as the announcement to resume the health card for immigrants in March, two months before the municipal and autonomous elections, to then intimidate from the hands of her number two the autonomies who dared to return the right to health protection with gross threats of sanction from the European Union. There has really been a great change, a change with real expectations. The political landscape of the autonomous communities has changed and the first thing the socialist autonomous communities have done has been to return health care to those excluded from the system, thus restoring dignity and belief in politics with capitals. That is why we congratulate the communities of Aragón, Baleares, Castilla-La Mancha, Navarra, Extremadura, Valencia and, of course, my land, Cantabria. Our congratulations also go to communities such as Asturias, Andalusia, the Basque Country or the Canary Islands for the opposition they made, since they were the spearhead, and go the recognition and deep admiration of the Socialist Party to the thousands of professionals who resist the decree and who are attending to those excluded by the back door. For this reason, the Socialist Party offers a final opportunity for the Government to reflect, rectify, evaluate and accept what is obvious, as if a dish is a dish, and to take into account this proposal for a law aimed at universalizing public health care. We hope that, even if there are a few months left, this Government will return to the culture of the pact, to the culture of dialogue and to the culture of tolerance. We call for the support of the rest of the groups in the House, which have also, from the outset, opposed the harmful health reform. The renovation we're asking for is very small. It is a question of defining four articles, with a very rapid administrative procedure, which would allow this bill to be prepared before Christmas. Finally, I would like to recall an inescapable commitment by the Socialist Party: When we govern we will repeal this royal decree of shame and commit ourselves to returning to universal health. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. Mr Cuadra has the floor for the Joint Group in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want to do is to congratulate the Catalan people on the important step they have taken this weekend on the road to the conquest of their freedom, sovereignty and independence. We hope that in the coming weeks they will be able to make further progress in this same direction, and we welcome that. So don't let it fall. Firstly, I would like to say that our vote will be in favour of the proposal for a law that we are discussing, put forward by the Socialist Group, with some precision that I will then make. In short, it is a question of rewinding, of reversing the reactionary position of the Government with regard to public health care, in particular with regard to the group of immigrants. Doctors of the World and Amnesty International have referred to how the implementation of the measures agreed upon by the Government has resulted in the removal of nearly one million people from public health care, which is a very serious attack on the right to health care they have previously enjoyed. What is reflected in the substance is the concept, I would say, of the Government of these people as intruders in our society, as people who are classified as second-class in terms of residence rights, health rights and the social benefits that other people enjoy. According to this, these rights must be subject to the scrutiny of economic or political conveniences and to the need to practice the charity of this Government without considering all these people as what they are, people with full human and social rights. In the intervention of the Socialist Group, reference has been made to the fact that some autonomous communities, in disobeying the rule emanating from the Government - for example, the Foreign Parliament - have adopted a law extending these rights that had been withdrawn to the immigrant population. This law was appealed by the Government along with, I take it, 14 other social laws of similar content approved by the Foreign Parliament in this legislature, rejected by the Government and suspended for the most part by the Constitutional Court, thus in an important way attacking not only the express powers recognized by the Foral Community of Navarre, but also the sovereignty of our people to decide who are the people with public health care. In conclusion, I would like to make a couple more comments on the proposal that has been made. There is a requirement that has been criticized by associations and groups working in Navarre on this issue and it is one that refers to the requirement of registration of these people, the difficulties and the impossibility that many times has of this collective to carry out this registration. In Navarre the only requirement has been that of residence, which is much more accessible, and things have worked quite well, so we think they would have to go the same way. The second consideration to be taken is that of emergency medical assistance in this bill. As is the case with paragraphs 1 and 3 of the proposed law, it should be stressed that it should be carried out under the same conditions as the rest of the population in the Spanish State, so as not to give rise to restrictive interpretations of this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Quadra. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of my group, I would also like to congratulate the Catalan people for having spoken on the terms in which they have done so. The Socialist Group is bringing forward a proposal for a law which is not new; that is, what we have already had in our hands more than once, with some other name, with some other change, but with the same objective and with the same orientation; orientation and objective shared by my group as a whole, because they have not only done so, but, with the exception of the People's Group, all the other groups have asked in this House all these questions. Therefore, it is a reasonable and fair request at the same time as repeated. It has a global objective that Mrs Gallego has already outlined in her speech: the universalization of the right to health care, the right to universal health care. There is no need to explain further because the sentence itself says what it is, but it has two aspects: one, that persons without Spanish nationality or citizenship who reside or are in the State have such assistance, and two, that persons with Spanish citizenship, regardless of their contributory status and contributions to Social Security or whatever, have free and universal public health care. It is undoubtedly based on a humanist principle, the basis of the welfare state that advanced, democratic, Western societies established after the Second World War in the construction of Europe, a basis that my group had already shared since its inception, back in the 1940s. It is not a question of health care being, as it is, a personal right; it is a personal right and a State obligation. It must be made clear that the crux of the matter, when the People's Party changes this view, is that we think that health is the result of the contributions that each citizen makes to social security, when it is not. Health depends on the General Budgets of the State and therefore on the taxes that we pay the citizens, we are where we are; in the case of Euskadi, the taxes that we pay through the concert and that we administer in our Finance. What cannot be done is what the People's Party did with the central theme - it was the star theme - in health matters in this legislature: the Royal Decree 16/2012. As someone else has said, he had a rumbling title, but he had four central axes that were, in our view, destroying the concept that some of us have of public health. Firstly, it abolished universality; secondly, it implemented additional co-sponsorships; thirdly, it amputated autonomous capacities already transferred and, fourthly, it reduced health resources to those autonomous communities that depend on what the State provides them. There can be no greater disaster than Royal Decree 16/2012; it has been the worst measure taken in the field of health since these Courts are democratic. Having said that, we believe that such a decree - we have asked for it more than once - must be repealed and returned to universality, so that all people are cared for have the origin they have, the social status they have or the nationality they have, that they are unemployed, working, whether they are billionaires or poor of solemnity, because health care is the basis of any welfare State and it is something that from a purely humanist approach must be attended not by a question of mercy or charity, but because it is a basic democratic precept. There is one question that has not been put to us in this proposal for a law tabled by the Socialist Group and which is only on the last point. In one of its paragraphs, she said that she had recourse to article 149 of the Constitution to hang this bill from it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we do not like that at all, precisely because it is the article that the People's Party - and also the Socialist Party at the time - has always resorted to when it wanted to re-centralize and assume powers that were already transferred. It may be 1 or 19, but article 149 has always been a sort of tailor drawer that covers everything. Whenever the State has been wanted to have powers that were already transferred, Article 149 has been used. That is why we say without complexes that we do not like, because there is no need to resort to article 149. Euskadi has full competence in health; he has the capacity to legislate and he does not need you to raise Article 149 so that people who could not be cared for could be. I am grateful that the Socialist Parliamentary Group finally mentioned Euskadi, because it was certainly the first community that raised a kind of civil disobedience to a decree that it considered illegitimate - even if it was legal - and went against its principles. No one - and when I say no one, it is no one - has been left unattended in Euskadi when this royal decree was in force and when some autonomous communities were not in the hands of those who are now. Appeals were used - because here at the very least they resort to the Constitutional Court and, as the Constitutional Court plays at home, there is never a possibility of doing anything - so that these people could be treated without any harm to them. This is an element to be taken into account. Finally, I want to say that whenever the People's Party has defended the need for that royal decree to be useful, it has argued that it was to save, because Spain was in a crisis situation and it could not be allowed not to know what waste it was. Gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, every time I go up to this rostrum to talk about this matter - and there have been a few - I ask you the same thing: How much has the State saved with this royal decree? No one has yet risen to give a figure and to say that from that decree the State has saved money; moreover, I believe that the management of the decree itself costs more than it saves. On the other hand, managing this matter in the way you propose is ungovernable by some autonomous communities. Therefore, it has not been saved or used for anything. It has been unfair and a serious squanderer of citizens' basic rights. I ended by saying that we are going to support this bill tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We do not like article 149, but we believe that in some way without article 149 these measures can also be provided to the autonomous communities that are competent in this area. Once again we call for the repeal of this royal decree and call for all citizens to have access to free, universal and public health, as is already the case in some autonomous communities. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go on to say that from our parliamentary group, the Progressive Union and Democracy, we will support this proposal for a law by the Socialist Group on the universalisation of the right to public health care. On the one hand, because we fully agree with what is being presented and what is being demanded of it and, on the other, because from our group we always support the considerations of proposals for law. We believe that it enriches the legislative process, diversifys the issues dealt with in this House and serves in some way to remove from the hands of the Government this confusion between the legislature and the executive in which they find themselves and to which they submit to public opinion on many occasions. Focusing on the debate we have here today, have all the changes introduced by the People's Government meant an improvement in public health care? Have they ensured the sustainability of the National Health System? Have they made it more accessible, more universal, equal access to health benefits? Do they co-exist? Have they stopped the deterioration of the health services of the different autonomous communities? Have they guaranteed the rights of dependents? [[Consent]] Be seated a lot, but the simple answer to all these questions is no, no, no, no and no. The changes introduced by the Government of the People's Party mean that health in Spain is less free, less accessible and less universal. We have been sold that thanks to these modifications savings of hundreds of millions of euros have been achieved, but what we have to ask ourselves is: Is it always the synonymous savings of efficiency and quality in the service? Different associations of health professionals, such as the College Medical Organization, the Association of Medical Students, Nursing Colleges or the Spanish Patient Forum, point out in their reports that, in their opinion, for nothing. Spanish health care is not universal, say what the PP officials say in their interventions; only those citizens who contribute to Social Security or are covered by it by family relationship with an insured person are covered. Any person over twenty-six years of age who has not contributed and who is not covered by his or her parents is left out. Undocumented immigrants have ceased to receive health care even in cases where the lack of treatment of their diseases in the medium and long term may pose risks to public health, such as - in the light of different epidemiological and medical studies - the case of undocumented immigrants affected by HIV, which would entail greater expenditure in the medium and long term than is saved by depriving them of antiretroviral treatment. Minors and pregnant women in some autonomous communities have been denied assistance, while others have not. The language barriers of some autonomous communities in public employment competitions or the need to collate in the territory where the professional role is to be developed, as in the case of nurses, continue to be important obstacles to professional mobility; there continue to be important bureaucratic obstacles preventing the mobility of health professionals across the national territory. Equal access to health benefits is not guaranteed because it varies according to the autonomous community in which it resides, as the legislative amendments of the PP leave open the possibility that some autonomous communities - which may be allowed - may introduce additional benefits. In these four years of disastrous legislature in health and social services, the cohesion of the National Health System has not increased. The bureaucratic hindrances and administrative conflicts between different autonomous territories remain a constant. The deterioration of health services in different autonomous communities has not been halted. Waiting lists continue to increase in all communities due to the lack of resources and staff and drug shortages in some communities; for example, in the Valencian Community pharmacies have been on strike in the past for administrative failure, as in other autonomous communities. Far from solving the problem with the change of autonomous government, last week the Valencian Council of official schools of pharmacists warned that they are in the same starting position as when the Royal Decree-Law of 2012 began to apply. In addition, the rights of dependants have not been guaranteed in these four years; a large majority of dependants are not receiving benefits for the reduction of budget allocations, and new graduates do not have the hope of receiving them having their families take care of them when they have the recognized right to assistance in such situations. The users of Spanish health care or those seeking to be users cannot continue to suffer from measures that have been detrimental to health rights, quality of care and benefits. As I said at the beginning of my speech - and in conclusion - our group will vote in favour of this adoption in consideration of the Socialist Group's proposal for a law, and if the process continues UPyD would help to broaden its aspirations with some contributions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. For the Group of the Plural Left, I have the floor, Mrs Castaño.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the universalisation of public health coverage. The proposal for a law presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in which it replenishes the legal situation prior to Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, and which we will already vote in favour, reiterates - already mentioned in previous speeches - initiatives that have been debated in this House. If I remember correctly, our group has proposed up to four times initiatives of a court similar to that which is presented today - the last in May by my colleague Gaspar Llamazares -, initiatives that have not had, as you know perfectly well, any success. In this rostrum, on the occasion of its presentation, and again today, there will be numerous arguments against the health model that is being sought to consolidate with the royal decree-law to which I have referred. It is a model that brings us back in the mid-1980s and moves us away from the path that has been going on so far, a path that was characterized by the increase in coverage and universality of the system, as it gathered more and more groups that were outside the health system or that did not have enough coverage on the part of the health system. This health model that had been built throughout democracy was developed with broad social consensus, was a universal model, free of charge at the time of use and was financed through direct taxation. The process of humanization of the health to which this model responded broke, was truncated, as has already been said, by the Royal Decree 16/2012. In this debate, various arguments have been used against the restrictions set out in the 2012 rule and there have been all kinds of reasons: that they violate human rights, that it is an economic error, that it is making us more expensive to all citizens and that it is also a serious health error. These are reasons and arguments that come from all sectors of society, professionals, scientific societies, trade unions, user organizations, NGOs, governments of some autonomous communities that, as mentioned above, refuse to accept the exclusion of sectors of the population from health care, and to which the Executive has responded with threat and intimidation. But criticism has also come from international agencies and organizations. All the reasons, all the arguments, all the considerations have been systematically ignored, because - we are not going to deceive ourselves - what lies behind the counter-reform of health promoted by the People's Party, what is hidden behind the actions that have accompanied it and what the royal decree-law answers is a conception of health not as a right but as a mere commodity, a conception that reduces health care to a cruel and dirty big business, based on the attention of the benefit, the suffering and the pain of the people. I have made reference to statements by international agencies, and I will allow myself to incorporate in my statement a statement by an organization that I hope will not look radical and dangerous, the United Nations, which, in its resolution adopted on 12 December 2012 on universal health coverage, stresses the fundamental importance of health for international development. The resolution urges Governments to take measures to ensure access to affordable and quality health services for all. The United Nations recognizes that universal health coverage implies that all people have non-discriminatory access to a range of basic medical services for promotion, prevention, cure and rehabilitation, as well as essential medicines that are safe, affordable, effective and of quality, ensuring that the use of these services does not expose users to serious economic difficulties and with particular emphasis on the poor, vulnerable and marginalized segments of the population. In that resolution, the United Nations further encourages Member States, in collaboration with other stakeholders and where appropriate, to plan or implement the transition of their health systems to universal coverage, while continuing to invest in and strengthen health-care systems in order to increase and safeguard the scope and quality of services and to respond adequately to the health needs of the population. Transition from health systems to universal health, the UN recommends. Well, in this legislature the People's Party has gone the wrong way. During his term of office, health has ceased to be universal, since not all persons have the right to health, and not all persons who have access have access to health on equal terms. Let us remember partial exclusions that have had to do, for example, with the establishment of co-operatives in very fragile sectors, such as the chronically ill. This legislature - it will be said many times and we will continue to repeat it over these days - is coming to an end. With this and borrowing the title of a record of a group of my land, Asturias, of Illegals, I will finish my intervention, altering that title and talking about the end of the wild times and the arrival of the new times. The savage times of attack on the public health system are certainly about to end, and I say this with the authority that gives the knowledge that most of the organizations and parties that will attend the next elections have signed the institutional declaration for the universality of the right to health and we have committed ourselves to carrying out the precise actions that guarantee the effective restoration of the universal right to health for all people living in the Spanish State. I say this with the conviction that in the new Parliament to be set up from December you will not be able to continue to exercise your asphyxiating majority. Wild times come to an end and new time is about to come. Today, this new initiative is likely to fail. You will have the opportunity to implement your absolute majority. They will probably crush this initiative and again vote against everyone living in this country being sure that when they are sick they will receive the best possible attention; but they have less and less time, more and more the new time, the time of people, the time of all people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castaño. Mrs Gomis has the floor for the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Royal Decree 16/2012 is an example of how they have adopted health measures in this legislature: as a matter of urgency, unilaterally, without dialogue and without consensus of any kind, either social or political, and with consequences for all citizens on access to health care that have been very serious. Measures have been taken that should not be taken and are no longer needed: the sustainability of the health system, the major issue pending not only in this legislature but also in the previous ones; increasing State budgetary resources for the autonomous financing of health, and resolving the under-financing suffered by the health system, allocating specific funding for the new benefits approved by the Government of the State. This has all been a waste of time. None of this has been done, and all of this remains pending. The sustainability of the health system has not been addressed. Today, a proposal for a law on the universalization of the right to public health care appears at this table. On behalf of our parliamentary group, I say that we will vote in favour of this bill. To do so would be to go against our ideas and would not be consistent with the way we have done it from the Catalan health system. It is not the first time - and I do not think it is the last time - that we have this debate, unfortunately. The main reason for our support for the proposal is because it gives us the opportunity to recover the universal health system that the Government - with the decree I mentioned earlier 16/2012 - abolished without consensus and without consultation, rather than seeking a health care pact, something that we have been demanding from our group for a few days. A pact between all parliamentary groups, health professionals and social organizations, which in one way or another represent users. Ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal for a law, there is now the possibility of amending some of the articles without the need for future regulations to deploy them. We should never have lost health security to all citizens. I won't tire of saying it. When Catalonia had the competence in the field of health with the adoption of the Law on Health Management, the Catalan health system established three axes: public health, health care and social services and care for dependence. At that time, approximately 70,000 people were detected who were not listed, but were given a health card. I say this because in Catalonia the Government of Convergence and Union of that moment was already a pioneer in having universal assistance for all. Ladies and gentlemen, we must demand and demand - and we will do so - once again health security for all. The removal of the right of access to health care is neither desirable nor constitutional and, according to our group, the Generalitat de Catalunya, on the instructions of the Parliament, opened a process of unconstitutionality to this fact. This bill today gives us the opportunity to regain the right to public health for a portion of citizens excluded from it, but we have other reasons why our group wants to support this bill. It is necessary to correct and eliminate harmful or unfair aspects. Among other measures, I will tell you about the cohabiting in emergency medical transport or the diet therapy, which should go into the portfolio of common services, or the hospital cohabiting for admission of patients to the hospital that in some autonomous communities has been refused to start. We therefore have, once again, the opportunity to draft amendments that correct and allow us to go back and improve the past, if we can. Return to the pharmaceutical payment, which already existed but which was increased with the decree-law to totally unfair levels. People who earn between 18,000 and 99,000 euros have to contribute 50% of the cost of their medicines. Is this fair to a chronic patient of a certain age? Is it logical to charge the same to the one who earns 19,000 as the one who earns 99,000? Would it not be appropriate to establish progressive contribution bands to obtain the necessary medication? The Generalitat of Catalonia is responsible for 90% of this pharmaceutical co-op for vulnerable people who earn less than 24,000 euros, so the co-op for these patients is reduced to 10% of that established by the decree. These patients can logically maintain treatment more easily and ultimately their quality of life. We are totally opposed to the economic criteria you are using, ladies and gentlemen of the Government. We want respectable and more humane criteria. Advancing only on the economic side is dangerous, because it will move towards a deterioration of health due to its therapeutic dosage, which would imply more hospital income, dependence and worsening of health, that is, in the long run it would be counterproductive. The vision of the human nature of our group is aware that our health depends on both organic and non-organic parameters. The presumption of the right to health and the confidence that the necessary therapeutic measure will be possible are factors that can improve the evolution and prognosis of a disease. Ladies and gentlemen, the hypocritical oath already established more than two millennia ago that care for the sick needs material conditions worthy of both the patient and the healthcare professional. I therefore ask you today to take into account the proposal for a law of the Socialist Group. It is good that the health debate is reopened and that political groups and, as I said earlier, social groups are involved in it. Our group believes that it is possible to improve measures with tranquillity and dialogue, to reach a health pact with universalization of free health care for all. As has been said in this room a moment ago, we are many present who want to share our views. I can suggest that in Catalonia we have the Catalan health system. If it's all right, we can give them a hand. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gomis. For the People's Group I have the word doña Teresa Angulo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a matter that we have already spoken about repeatedly in this House and in which, therefore, the positions of the parties are well known: the position of those who believe that, as the Government of the People's Party has done, this issue must be dealt with rigorously, seriously and knowing how to combine the right of citizens residing in Spain to public health care with efficient and adequate management of the resources that facilitate such assistance, and the position of those who, installed in the most absolute irresponsibility, the only objective they have when they raise these issues is the electoral weapon, even if it is by concealing information and at the cost of endangering our system, which we all support with our taxes. The first thing we have to discuss is a myth, a fiction to which they always allude, that in Spain of the year 2011 the health was universal, and in this sense we will ask ourselves some questions. In 2011 in Spain all Spaniards were entitled to health coverage? No, there were Spaniards, precisely those who were in the worst possible situation because they were standing and without any income, who did not have it. And why didn't they have it, ladies and gentlemen? Because the Socialist Party, in an act of insensitivity and we could say that even of cruelty, took it away. As the spokesman for the Basque Group has said, although health is financed through taxes, there were Spaniards who paid their taxes - lawyers, prosecutors, engineers... - to whom the Socialist Party denied health coverage. So, health for all Spaniards in 2011? No, ladies, no. Let's talk about foreigners. In Spain of the Socialist Party of 2011, were all foreigners living here given a health card? Nor was he given if he was an irregular citizen, but if he was a citizen of the European Union some autonomous communities such as Andalusia were refusing it. So stop cheating, in Spain ruled by the PSOE, the health was not universal, it was discriminatory. That is the truth, as it is that all those who are now trying to teach us social rights lessons, accusing us of leaving some citizens without health care - which is not true - were very quiet when the PSOE had the cruelty of leaving many hundreds of thousands of Spaniards without health care just because they had the misfortune of losing their jobs. That's what you guys did. So there was no Constitution, Mrs Gallego? There was a Constitution that also protected them. And precisely because that was the reality of Spain - which was discriminated against here - it was for this reason that the European Union opened a reasoned opinion to us, one that you do not want to talk about and that when you are appointed you misrepresent and manipulate only to hide the harmful consequences of your irresponsible action. But there is more, in Spain ruled by the Socialist Party, not content with the cruelty of leaving hundreds of thousands of Spaniards without health coverage, they settled in the desire not to charge other countries for the assistance we gave the citizens in charge here, despite the fact that the Court of Auditors warned you that by doing so they were putting our health system in jeopardy. And look, Mrs Gallego, they didn't come to a spa, ask the president of Andalusia, ask her about those citizens who came to operate or receive treatment on the Costa del Sol; they didn't come to a spa. [[Applauds]] You'd think, what are we going to charge you for? If we do not pay the bills here, we stop paying the Spanish suppliers, we sink their companies, we send their workers to unemployment, but the rich Germans and the rich French do not charge them. That was his management, no wonder we found the country the way we found it. [[Applauds]] That was your health management, and you wanted the government to do absolutely nothing, to leave it that way. No, ladies and gentlemen, because of these economic and social trophies that you did, it was therefore necessary to approve this reform. Once again in his proposal they put forward a wrong approach by saying that the actual decree has altered the subjective scope of health coverage and has expelled citizens from the system, when precisely what the real decree has done is to put order, to stop discriminating against citizens - as you did -, to guarantee the system and to extend coverage to people who had not until then been entitled to it. You continue to frighten the citizens, which is their way of doing politics, that of putting fear. In Spain, more than 500 million medical events are taking place annually, and there is no news in the Government or in the autonomous communities of people who are no longer receiving assistance because they cannot afford it. Speak with rigor. 62% of the medicines in this country cost less than 2 euros. Please don't get scared, which is your way of doing politics. You thank those autonomous governments and what I am asking these autonomous governments to do is to please stop using that power - which, I insist, they have achieved in the offices and not in the ballot boxes - simply to campaign against the People's Party, no matter what, as they did in their years of government. What is not responsible or better for the Spaniards is to return to the stage of 2011. The reform that this Government has made was necessary and it is also the reform that has offered the people who live here irregularly the most generous attention of our environment. If you have, Mr UPyD spokesman, all public health programmes covered because - let's talk rigorously again - that is guaranteed by the General Law on Public Health and you do not need a health card to receive these aids and public health programmes. In fact, today in Spain more than 185,000 irregular foreigners are being cared for, so we pay 244 million euros a year; of course they are being cared for and precisely the Spanish Government is going to do more because in this cohesion function that it is exercising, which is its responsibility, it wants to continue to guarantee this health care but in a harmonized way throughout the national territory and, above all, to do so through a mechanism that prevents the fraud and the health tourism that the PSOE allowed and that does not pose a risk to the Spanish health system. A mechanism that is the same throughout Spain and that guarantees the attention of the basic portfolio of services - even if it is entering from primary care but with what the doctor prescribes -, specialized, hospital and pharmaceutical services, but in all Spain equally and rigorously because returning to the system that this proposal proposes, that of 2011, would be to stop entering, for example, the 560 million euros that the Government now charges to those countries for the attention that we give here. [[Applauds]] That is an effect of the royal decree: 560 million euros a year that the PSOE did not enter in the accounts of the Spanish public health. That is why we ask you here for responsibility, gentlemen of the PSOE. The right place to address this issue is the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, where the ministry has raised it with loyalty and thinking only of caring for the citizens living in Spain, guaranteeing in turn the survival of our system. Is that what we all want? Because let's see if it's going to be that it's not what some people want when they keep raising this same issue again. Does it really matter to you to continue to maintain a public health system, strong, sustainable, capable of responding to the needs of all the citizens we live here today and of those who want to come looking for new opportunities? Really? Because, perhaps, if you did not devote yourselves to using this issue only as a bold weapon against the government, we could believe them, especially when their sensitivity is based on the cruelty to which I have referred to removing the cover from the people who were losing their jobs. You're talking about the pact. Since the beginning of the legislature, both this government and my parliamentary group have offered you a health pact and you did not even want to sit down and talk. Now you come to remember the pact? For this group accepts it, the offer is still there and even if the legislature ends there are still occasions to show that you really don't want to get an electoral result from this and that what you want is to reach that pact. Now you have greater responsibilities in the autonomous communities; I ask you to administer those responsibilities to build and not to dismantle and destroy all the good that has been achieved in these four years, which is the only thing you have done in these hundred days of government. Gentlemen of the PSOE, we Spaniards cannot allow ourselves again to endanger our jobs, our well-being, our health and, worse, only for the sake of a personal ambition - of which we have already had an example - and whenever we are asked to return to the 2011 stage we will say no. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs. Angulo. - THE CATALAN GROUP OF CONVERGENCE I OF UNION, AMENDMENT OF LAW 22/2003 OF 9 JULY, COMPETITION, INCLUDING A SPECIAL COMPETITION PROCEDURE FOR PHYSICAL PERSONS IN THEIR FAMILY ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES OR, AS AUTONOMOUS WORKERS, IN THEIR PROFESSIONAL OR ENTERPRISE ACTIVITIES. [[File number 122/00194]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u17	Proposal for a law of the Catalan Convergence and Union Group amending Law 22/2003 of 9 July, Competition, which incorporates a special competition procedure for natural persons in their family economic activities or, as self-employed workers, in their professional or business activities. Mrs Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the bill we are presenting today for debate is dated 27 February 2015 and was indeed tabled by our group on that date. We are debating it today because, unfortunately, in our view, although some of the provisions are already recognized in the new Competition Law, in the reform that was made of that law last June, we understand that it does not adequately reflect the aspects that are important to us. It is basically all that refers to situations of over-indebtedness, to situations of loss of habitual housing, either due to default of mortgage fees, or due to default of rental income. We wanted to discuss this in this plenary session to make it clear that it is still an outstanding subject to be addressed in these situations of habitual housing loss. It is one of the most important social issues that we have discussed in this House throughout the legislature and to which, in our view, the government and the party that supports it may have had the worst response. In addition, it has adopted a series of measures that are unilateral patches and timorous measures, without the assistance of the other opposition groups, without too much attention to any amendments but, yes, almost seemed to the dictate of the banking lobby, that if in this country the subject of the lobbies were regulated, these laws would possibly lead to the march of who inspired them, which in this case would be the banking lobby. Having said that, I would not like to miss the opportunity to explain that you started taking letters on the matter in 2012, through urgent protection measures for mortgage debtors. They took into account the adoption of the Code of Good Practice and recently the fifth report on the operation of this Code of Good Practice, but of 37,416 transactions, barely 14,000 have been processed, basically because applicants did not meet the requirements to be eligible for the Code of Good Practice. It is true that in June 2015, almost four years later, they expanded the criteria for natural persons to benefit from this code of good practice. We will see what response they give with this new adequacy and this recently approved amendment. At the end of 2012, given that the code of good practice was insufficient, they proposed a real decree of urgent measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors. This process was crossed along the way by an ILP promoted by the mortgage-affected platform, which, based on pressure from all parliamentary groups and, of course, from social actors and members of the mortgage-affected platform themselves, had no choice but to accept it in the process. In the last second they accepted to process this ILP that gave birth to Law 1/2013, on the protection of mortgage debtors, that in the end what it did was to dilute enormously what involved the spirit of the ILP that contained the restructuring of debts, the dation in payment, which was not reflected in Law 1/2013. What they did was create a social housing fund, which again proved insufficient. Two and a half years of life from this fund and, to this day, only 30% of the dwellings are occupied. A poor balance sheet, because the banks contributed almost 6,000 housing units to this voluntary fund and only 1,767 housing units have been awarded in these two and a half years. A social fund with newly overly restrictive limits and the Executive had to increase the thresholds once again so that they could benefit from award criteria that did not take into account the physical location of families, therefore no criterion of geographical proportionality, taking into account the needs of the requesting family and, moreover, in a precarious state of conservation. All this does not make attractive, today, this social housing fund which, as we say, has scarcely 1,767 occupied dwellings. In addition, they instituted a two-year moratorium that we warned them from my group that it was bread for then and hunger for last year because, again, they had to extend the moratorium to two more years, but what happens is that to these suspensions of launches what is done is to accumulate, day after day, the interests of delay. Therefore, when these families have to be launched, they will find that, in addition, the debt has increased enormously, and it is very difficult for them to cope with any kind of restructuring. At the same time, the Court of Justice of the European Union comes and takes the Spanish State's colours out of it and tells it that it is 20 years late in adapting the Community mortgage directive. Twenty years of delay are very long and, seeing how throughout 2014 an average of one hundred and eighty-four evictions took place every day, Spanish consumers had the feeling and also suffered in their own flesh the inaction of a government paralyzed and completely kidnapped by interests that were not precisely those of the Spanish society that suffered the most from the effects of the crisis and that could not cope with mortgage quotas or rents due to insolvencys that occurred and good was. It was the European Union that had to tell the Spanish State that it had to put the batteries in terms of abusive clauses, that it did not serve the formula with which that mortgage law dealt with executions, which left the persons concerned virtually in defence and, therefore, had to change this legislation. Even the Parliament of Catalonia came here, to Congress of Deputies, to ask them to make a law of over-indebtedness and restructuring, but they said no. They did not listen to the proposal well worked out and adopted unanimously in the Parliament of Catalonia - by unanimity it means of all groups, also of the group that here in Congress has the majority - in order to be able to advance a law that would protect mortgage debtors. They therefore missed the ability of the Catalonian Parliament in this case to provide a solution to the families who suffered the most from the consequences of the crisis, losing their homes, the Autonomous Community of Catalonia being the one that had the most impact on mortgage executions. They said no. For what? To wait until June of the same year to be able to process yours, and here comes our proposal. They processed a second chance law that is by no means a second chance law, in our view. Furthermore, they did not accept any of the amendments we proposed to them. It is not a second chance that at the age of five he can resurrect a credit or debt because it turns out that the debtor has come to better fortune and then the creditor can demand that he pay all his debts. It does not seem to us an incentive for any kind of debtor to engage in any entrepreneurial activity knowing that there is the possibility that within five years their debts will rise again. Moreover, for you it is a new reform, but it is inspired by the departures of Alfonso X El Sabio, rather than by the legal systems of our environment. We are the only country in the European Union that does not have a good law of second chance. The World Bank itself has warned them that not allowing exemption, compensation or withdrawals in public debts, those that one can maintain with the Public Treasury or with Social Security, is not a receipt, cannot be part of a good law of second chance. You haven't listened to the World Bank either. You have decided to carry out a law that it does is to protect the debtors in half and for nothing avoids the civilian death of people, a civil death that occurs when people cannot contribute to Social Security, they cannot have a payroll because they run the risk of being arrested. We have tabled this proposal for a law and what we want is to protect the debtors in good faith with an insolvency that has occurred, but not only those who now incur debts, but all those debtors who have been victims of the economic crisis, all those debtors since 2005, 2006 and 2007 to 2010 who have suffered especially from the economic crisis and who, in our view, the mechanisms of the law that you have approved do not allow them to accept the formula to restructure their debts. We therefore suggest that you take into account this proposal for a law, which opens up the possibility for Spanish families to benefit from restructuring, to take more than 50% off, to wait for up to three years and also to be able to exonerate or to write off public debt, which allows it to apply above all to insolvency situations prior to the protection provided by this law of the future, which we believe may be necessary but insufficient to help families who today continue to suffer evictions. According to the INE, in the years 2014 and 2015 there have been 50,758 launches in the Spanish State, and from 2013 to 2015, according to the General Council of the Judiciary, there have been 74,185 evictions. These are 124,943 families who have lost their usual and family homes, many families still at risk of losing their homes. Unfortunately, they have failed to solve the problem and have lost many opportunities. We are repeatedly told that they are the only Government that has taken action in this regard, that has done things. But apart from doing things, you have to do them right, otherwise, it's not enough. They have not prioritized, as we have said, the interests of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, they do not seem to know the social reality or the territorial reality of the state they are ruling; they seem to be from Mars. Accept this process, try to give a solution and finish the legislature by saying at least that they have finished the legislature to find efficient measures to end the drama of evictions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. The use of one turn against the Group of the European People's Party has been requested. In his representation, Mr Martínez-Pujalte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u20	President, ladies and gentlemen, as always, I rise to this rostrum with the conviction that being here is a high responsibility. I'm saying it now, just this season that I'm living. I never come up here frivolously, I've never done it and of course I don't do it today. I rise with the responsibility to know that this rostrum is always being exposed to the views of each parliamentary group in defence of the general interest, and I grant it to all the groups that do so, but I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone knows that there are ways to take advantage of time, and of course it is not today to debate a proposal for a law which, regardless of the will of the President of the Government, is condemned to not be dealt with, and that is what you all know, because there is no time to deal with it, even if it was in one reading. It is a way of exposing what everyone wants politically, knowing that the effectiveness of changing the legislative framework is null and void. In any case, as we come here, Mrs Ciuro, to listen to political positions, I want to tell you that we must come knowing what is being talked about. Mrs Ciuro, you come here to talk about housing, and I know that you have been very concerned about this subject in this legislature. You were the driving force behind Mrs Colau, you were the one who really sponsored her to come to this Parliament. You are on this subject from the minute one, that I grant you, but you will be with me in that one thing is to preach and another to give wheat, one thing is to preach and another to solve the problems of the citizens, one thing is to speak, as some people have done today who are or are not here, and another is to solve the problem of the citizens. The one who has tried to fix the citizens' problem since the minute one is this government. You can tell me that you have done better or worse, you can tell me that the Government has progressed more or less, but where there was nothing, a path has been opened up in the protection of citizens who, for reasons that have occurred, were not able to meet payment commitments, and that has been done by this Government. Anyone who has set up a social housing fund or who has promoted the provision of housing for citizens from the Sareb has been this government and, by the way, where more in Catalonia. [[The lady]] And it's not true, Mrs. Ciuro, that it's 1,700 used in the background. That's not true. You may have a data, but it is not true and data is not discussed. There are more than 4,000 - very close to 4,100 - dwellings that have been used in the Social Housing Fund and since September 9,900 are made available with more flexible conditions. It can be said more or less, but more than 16,000 launches, Mrs Ciuro, have been stopped under the legislation of the People's Party. You can say that you would have to do much more and then give a figure - what the General Council of the Judiciary or international bodies says -, and it seems to me good - but have you thought - surely yes - if they are second home? Have you thought if they're occupied dwellings? Have you thought about it? Have you thought about the flexibility for negotiation or not? It is very good that you present a proposal for a law - I accept it - but at first you have already stated that this proposal is out of time. It is logical to say this because this proposal for a law, on its second page, in the explanatory statement, when it refers to the reforms that have been made in our country, speaks of the three reforms that have been made in the Competition Law in the previous legislature, in that of the PSOE, and of those that have occurred in this legislature, but it stops. Law 25/2015, which comes from Decree 1/2015, of second chance, is stopped and not provided for. You stop, although your group - then they were a united group - through the representative who came up to the rostrum, who is no longer of your group but of another, very positively valued the second chance part. It is reflected in the 'Diary of Sessions'. Maybe you don't like it, but the 'Diary of Sessions' says so. That change solves a problem. It is easy to go up to the rostrum and say: there are citizens who, for reasons that have arisen, without having any fault, have been called upon not to be able to meet the commitments of payment, whether natural persons or also natural persons entrepreneurs. It is true, but the monopoly of sensitivity to deal with problems we all have. I do not take away the human or personal category to defend these situations, but my group also has it and since the first day we have done it, because we saw that it was a problem, that there were people who, due to the economic crisis, were busy not being able to cope with the payment of their house, the place where they lived, that they had not only lost their job, but also that they could not cope with the payment of their home. That, Your Honor, is very hard and you say it from the rostrum - it seems very good to me - but my parliamentary group and each of the Members who belong to it have the same capacity, the same sensitivity to see the problem and seek solutions, because it is not welcome, Your Honor, to say: I come here, I do not have to govern, I do not have to do anything and I tell you that you are insensitive. No, Your Honor. I tell you that you are sensitive, but so is my group; each and every one of us and every one of us knew that this problem had to be resolved. This problem did not begin on November 20, 2011, this problem came with the crisis and until November 20, 2011 no solution is given. [[Applauds]] It seems to you that few have been given and it seems good to me, because you would have done everything, even giving them the embassies to live a few, but, Your Honor, this group has done many things and I have given you numbers. This group is also sensitive - from this it has spoken less, perhaps because it has studied less - to the thousands and thousands of self-employed people who have seen the crisis shut down their business, who had to face debts that they could not pay and, even losing the assets they had, they were left with debts for their whole life. This parliamentary group has seen it and that is why it brought here the Second Opportunity Act. Mrs Ciuro, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have acknowledged that the Second Opportunity Act is an important step in facilitating the deleveraging of consumers and self-employed people who act in good faith so that they can start another business life. It may seem good or bad, but the Second Opportunity Act is not only a framework for the future so that when the self-employed have difficulties they can start a second course. Nor is it just a protection for entrepreneurship that, by the way, did not exist in Spain. It may seem wrong, but it did not exist; it only exists from now on. It is a positive act of defending entrepreneurship because not only is the entrepreneur helped, but he is told that if he fails in good faith he will be able to start again and have a second chance. That does the Second Opportunity Law with the future, but, Mrs Ciuró, the law improved with Mr Caldera's amendments - it is also fair to acknowledge it - and it is also a rescue law for the self-employed who have been trapped in the past. This was Mr Caldera's sensibility, because no one has a monopoly on social sensibility. We all have sensitivity and, when a person wants to attribute that monopoly to himself, I tell him with all honesty and humility that he is going beyond the line. Mr. Caldera said from the first moment that it had to be a rescue law for those who had already been trapped and the Second Chance Law is also a rescue so that they can remake their lives those who have been trapped in the past. Mrs Ciuro, you could say that this should have gone beyond and also public debts to Social Security and Finance; by the way, tell the unions as well. I could say that, but that this is moving forward is a reality. This law is coming very well to the entrepreneurial and autonomous natural persons in order to be able to start a new life without having the burden of past debts. There are already dozens of people who have been welcomed in the short time that has been approved. You know that for individuals who have no debt other than housing, the contest is not the best solution; you know that the best solution is not that they lose the house and then have no more debts, the best solution is to facilitate a home so that they can live with dignity. [[Applauds]] That is the best solution, and that is what we are working on: to facilitate payment, to make payments easier, to negotiate payments, to dialogue payments and, ultimately, to provide them with housing so that they can move with their family and have a roof, because the solution is not to lose everything. Mrs. Ciuro, you've done a lot. More could have been done, but all that has been done in the Spanish legal framework to facilitate the payment of the mortgage debts of the families, which for reasons arising from which they could not pay them, has been thanks to this Government; all that has been done to enable the self-employed to start a new life, and not to be burdened by the slab of past debts, has been done by this Government; and we have done so with balance so that no one - not even the small debtors - will be affected without being charged. Mrs. Ciuro, we may not be perfect, but we have a clear conscience that we have worked well and have the same sensitivity as you. When you deny it to us, you are denying my group what you have done, and I am not willing to do that, Mrs Ciuro. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u21	Thank you, Mr. Martínez-Pujalte. Mrs. Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Martínez-Pujalte, for your appreciation, but I see that I have neither heard nor read the proposal for a law that we have brought to the debate. First of all, when I started I said that we submitted a bill of 27 February 2015. I imagine you have not heard it because perhaps you were not at the time in the Chamber, but I told you that on 27 February 2015 we presented this proposal and I told you that we already recognized that a bill had been processed in this House, adopted in June 2015, and that some aspects had already been collected, but you were not in the House to be able to hear it. In addition, you almost ridicule me for bringing in in the exercise of the turn of this parliamentary group - because we have a few turns - a proposal for a law; you recriminate me that it will not be possible to deal with this legislature and you forget that you are dealing with the General Budgets of the State to apply them to another government that is not going to be yours. Is that democratic, Mr. Martínez-Pujalte? Is that logical? [[Applauds]] It seems to me that this has happened in relation to this Member simply because she is presenting a proposal for a law that is not going to be able to be dealt with in this legislature, because it can be dealt with in the next one. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I have told you that you have done things but that you have not done them well. However, in the Catalonian Parliament, where we have powers, we have done some very important actions. Furthermore, a law on over-indebtedness and protection of the most vulnerable persons, especially in the energy sector, in the area of vulnerable debtors and in the area of basic supplies, has just been adopted on the last day of the legislature, because it turns out that you systematically resort to the Constitutional Court all that we adopt in the Catalan Parliament in the exercise of our powers, rather than taking note and applying it where you have them. In Catalonia we have made a law on over-indebtedness - as I say, approved in the last period -; I suppose they will appeal to the Constitutional Court, but we will apply it as long as we can. What we do here is to establish a prior out-of-court procedure, because we agree, Mr Martínez-Pujalte, that it is not a receipt or not the only solution a competition, but you have not read the proposal for a law. In this proposal of law we present a compulsory mediation; we already have it in Catalonia in the Code of Consum, which you have appealed to us, and we have put it here again. For what? In order for families affected by a process of non-payment of rent or mortgage payments to have to go to a compulsory mediation before going to court. The judges of Catalonia, Mr Martínez-Pujalte, are not going to admit to processing any claim that does not carry this previously accredited mediation. They are also for the work of providing solutions; things can be done and, moreover, well done. We have made this law because, in order to be able to do a good mediation, we must go to the bodies empowered to do so in order to check the situation of the person who cannot pay and derive it from the social services, who also participate in this mandatory mediation process that we presented here and that we have in Catalonia and, moreover, to be able to analyze what conditions inspired the bank to grant that credit. You will not deny me - you know it as well as I do - that there was a time in Spain that it was easier to buy a flat on credit than a fridge, that there was a lot of credit joy and that sometimes mortgages were not granted with the guarantees of solvency required for the debtors themselves. In Catalonia, large housing and property holders - I mean, for example, large real estate companies, companies or Socimi who come to the massive purchase of property, many of whom are occupied by people whom these Socimi will surely have no problem throwing into the street when the first non-payment of rent or mortgage credit occurs -, if they have more than 20 homes, they are obliged not to evict without making social housing available to these people or at least to place them in some kind of social housing. It is, therefore, the big forks themselves who have to ensure that there is a relocation of these people and, if not, they cannot be thrown out into the street. Let us also ensure that there is no energy poverty and, above all, that those dependents who need it for their health care. We've done all this in Catalonia. We hope you will appeal to us in the Constitutional Court, but hopefully you won't be there in time, as you won't be there when that happens. He told me that my group has instigated - I don't know what word he used - Mrs Colau to appear. Well, yes, because we like to listen. Our mission as politicians is to listen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u23	Mrs. Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u24	I'm done, Madam President. When these people were appearing, you had already drafted the bill. Therefore, those appearances of that very first time served to inform. If they had listened to them, a better project would surely have come out at the time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Ciuro. Mr. Martinez-Pujalte.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Ciuro, I've been listening to you since the first minute. If everything in his life is as true as what he said...! I was sitting and, besides, weird thing, my cell phone didn't ring. I have not spoken on the mobile in all your speech, I have listened to it and, moreover, with interest, Mrs Ciuró. But you didn't have to listen to it with interest, because the newsletter already sets the date. What I told you, Mrs. Ciuro, was that I was overtaken. You pointed out, and I stressed, that I was overtaken. It was so overtaken that you, in the second intervention, only referred to the issue of housing and left the whole problem of the second chance unsaid, perhaps because you did not study it with the same depth and were not in the Commission where it was discussed. It's settled, Mrs. Ciuro. There are already thousands of people who are embracing it. With regard to housing, Mrs Ciuro, the data are overwhelming. More than 4,000 families. I don't know if that sounds bad, I don't know if we've made it fatal, but the 4,000 families don't feel bad. More than 16 thousand slow-downs. I don't know if it's wrong, but I'm sure that the families that have been stopped from launching, taking into account the legal changes approved in this legislature, don't feel wrong. I'm sure not, Mrs. Ciuro. He comes and tells me that in the Catalan Parliament you are doing a lot and: you do that. It seems to me sensational that the Catalan Parliament is dedicated to promoting, within its competences, the well-being of citizens and that it is not dedicated to other things - that is a personal opinion -. [[Applauds]] If that's what they have to do, if it's what citizens choose for them and not for dreams of another kind! It seems good to me, but, Mrs Ciuró, in the Second Opportunity Law mediation, both for individuals and for business individuals, is collected as a previous formula. Read the Second Opportunity Act carefully. Go to the Chamber of Commerce of Spain, now that you have appointed a deputy from your general steering group, and ask her how many mediations there have been; ask her, Mrs Ciuró - it is very easy -, she was a deputy from your group and has recently been elected. Mrs Ciuro, I really do not scold you for bringing this bill; we are here to do politics. What I told you, and it's not to scold anyone, is that it doesn't give time for its processing. I'm not Mr. Rajoy and I don't know when he's gonna call, but I'll call when I call, it doesn't give time for processing. You and all the Members of this House know that. You mix it with the budget and I say to you, Mrs Ciuró, that approving the budget for 2016 is again a gesture of responsibility of this government. The economic situation that thousands and thousands of families and entrepreneurs are going through does not allow for an approved budget-free space. The government that comes can make any changes it wants, but on 1 January the pensioners know that they will receive their pension adjusted to the increase in the budget, the officials also know it, the researchers know that there will be R+D+i programs, all the companies know that there will be programs. Then, the government that comes, that changes it if it wants because it is very easy, but making the budget is a gesture of responsibility for Spain to continue to grow and generate employment. It's over, Mrs. Ciuro. It would be the same if we voted yes or no: it is not going to be dealt with and it is going to fall. We could do the posture of voting that yes and look modern. You would say that we are modern and would be fooling you, but I will vote that not to make it clear that this parliamentary group, out of social sensitivity and thinking about the citizens, has done many things. I am sure that much more will be done in the next parliamentary term, but I am sure that we have done much more than in the previous parliamentary term. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u27	Thank you, Mr. Martínez-Pujalte. We're moving on to position-fixing. Mr. Azpiazu, are you going to intervene? [[Consent]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u28	Thank you, President. Since it gives me the opportunity, I will intervene to say that our group is also sensitive to these issues, Mr Pujalte, of course, because of the adverse effects of the economic crisis on businesses and especially on people who have gone so badly. According to Mr Pujalte, Mr Caldera was sensitive, the Group of the European People's Party was sensitive, I suppose that Convergència i de Unió also, because in the Basque Group we are also sensitive to people's problems. We know, Mr de Convergence, that at this stage in the legislature, and with which it is falling, from the material point of view this initiative is little more than a toast to the sun, and I say this only because what happens with today's vote would be suspended. Let us go ahead with the intention of the Basque Group to vote in favour of this initiative, because its content deserves our full interest and support. We have spoken long and hard throughout the economic crisis on this issue. Throughout this legislature, it is true, Mr Pujalte, that there have been initiatives that have been advancing and improving the situation of people and companies that were having a bad time. The subject of the second opportunity is a really important one. I think that everyone has to be entitled to a second chance or a third chance, why can't you also fail twice? We must make it easier for everyone to have that opportunity, even at this stage of the crisis, which may be less interesting than at other times, but in the Basque Group we think that it is not because of the fact that things are going to happen that the serious problems that still arise because of the effect, I repeat, of the economic crisis will be solved. That is why I think it is necessary to make life easier for those who have problems and to do so as soon as possible. I insist, the problems are not solved by the mere passage of time and by the inaction that sometimes characterizes the People's Party government. The Basque Group is going to vote in favour of taking account of the firm desire that this issue - that of going beyond what has been gone so far and which is important to solve these problems - be addressed as soon as possible at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, whether by Convergence or by any other group, but that a similar initiative be presented for precisely this, to go beyond and to alleviate the problems of those people who are still, as a result of the crisis, experiencing worrying situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u29	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the time I have been in this House, and of course today in the speeches, I hear constantly about how to defend the rights of one or the rights of another. This, technically, is called a zero sum game, because what creditors gain is lost by debtors or vice versa. The paradox is that I never - or almost never, to be exact - hear of the common good, of the general interest; that is, of which it includes debtors and creditors, those who contributed the money for the mortgage and those who have to return it, those who stay with the house when the mortgage is not paid and those who lose it. I am doing this reflection because we are at a political moment in this country where what is needed is the discourse of the general interest, which is common to all of us, and that is what needs to be defended. With that intention, our parliamentary group, within a few weeks of taking office - I was not yet a Member - has already tabled a proposal for a law precisely to address a problem that is a common problem. The problem of family debtors who cannot deal with their debt, whether mortgage or not, or of self-employed persons who risk their assets, then face their inability to pay, their insolvency, is not only their problem; it is the problem of this country, because this issue was long before the crisis. The only thing he did was to bring the problem up with dimensions that prevented this House from ignoring them, but he did not create the situation; he had been dragging himself long before. The legal shortcomings of the Mortgage Law, which was highlighted by the Court of Justice of the European Union, were long overdue. The only thing that happens is that it created some dimensions of the problem that made it impossible for them to be ignored. That is why our parliamentary group made its bill; a bill that, obviously, with the absolute majority of the People's Party was vetoed and could not be dealt with. And I return to the reflection of the common good, because our parliamentary group is going to support this bill not because we believe it to be the best bill, but because we believe it contains elements that would improve the legislation, which we also support, of second chance. Because we think about the good and the general interest of the country, we support those initiatives that advance the resolution of the problems that this country has. Because it is not a question of sensitivity, Mr Martínez-Pujalte, it is a question of responsibility, and there I do agree with you: sensitivity, everyone has his own; everyone is sensitive to what is sensitive, but responsibility is common, or at least I, in a presumption iuris tantum, make it common to all representatives of popular sovereignty who are in this House. I do agree with you there. We will support this proposal for a law knowing that it will fall, because we cannot go only with a utilitarian conception of parliamentary work, but there is also a symbolic function of representativeness of the will of the citizens. From that point of view, we tabled amendments to the budgets knowing that they were not going to approve any of us, but we did not do so with the utilitarian approach, Mr Martínez-Pujalte, but with the criterion of demonstrating that there are alternatives to solving the problems of this country, and at the same time we are able to support initiatives even though we believe that they are perfectable: we support the Second Opportunity Act and we will support this proposal, despite - and I simply leave that reflection - that we believe that it is simpler than the Second Opportunity Act from a technical-legal point of view, and although we also believe that it has shortcomings, and that is where the greatness of having been able to negotiate - and when it has been done, we have been able to verify - the draft laws and not be subject to the imperative of the absolute majority. When the draft laws have been negotiated, they have been tremendously strengthened from a technical-legal point of view and from a political point of view, but unfortunately - at least in my brief experience - that has been the exception to the rule. In this line, the proposition they present has technical imperfections. For example, Article 25c(3), which sets the mandatory period of three months, does not specify from whom that period is urged; it is specified that when it is found that... But who finds it, the debtor or the creditor? Or both? Or what's going on over there? That is a technical-legal inaccuracy, because they say: In any case, when the communication is proposed to the judge. All right, and in the meantime, what. I will say this in another way: how many months of default on the mortgage determine the impossibility of dealing with debts? Who determines that impossibility, the creditor or the debtor? Don't tell me it's settled in the text of the bill, because it's not. For example, it is true that they put prior compulsory mediation in the case of default on the mortgage of habitual housing, but that a mediation is compulsory does not make it more effective. Mediations to be effective must be voluntary and accepted by the parties. The paradigmatic proof that compulsory mediation does not solve the problem of going to trial is labour law, where there is compulsory labour mediation, and in most cases no agreement is reached and a trial is taken. Therefore, it is okay to make proposals for legislation, and we will defend and support what they present to us, but I return to the initial point: either we start to think about what is common to all, or if everyone is thinking about what is my thing, the truth is that this will not contribute - and this is a paradigmatic example - to improving the conditions of the country, govern who rules. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u31	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u32	Madam President. The usury of banks is one of the main ones responsible for the over-indebtedness or insolvency of natural persons - if they have acted in good faith - which may occur in the most familiar sphere if they are unable to face up to the payment of a mortgage loan for access to the property of the habitual dwelling, or if they are required to be held responsible for granting a guarantee that they cannot cover, or even for not being able to pay the monthly rent of their habitual dwelling. It is clear that the crisis has dramatically hit many families and entrepreneurs, with brutal impacts. Between 2007 and 2014 there were more than 600,000 mortgage executions, an average of about 200 daily executions in the last seven years; 58% of the cases were in Andalusia, Catalonia and the Valencian Community, and we are seeing that the economic upturn does not dampen the mortgage executions sufficiently. In 2014, the INE certified that there were 34,680 habitual housing units, i.e. first housing units, affected by embargoes and evictions; an increase of 7.14% over the previous year. This is the most dramatic face of the crisis and the debate generated by the proposed law of the Convergence i d ́Unió Parliamentary Group remains timely, despite the fact that more than two months ago a second chance legislative amendment was adopted. The debate generated is timely from our point of view because of the importance of the abbreviated competition procedure, and special and negotiated procedure, which makes it possible to resolve in an agreed manner between the parties and ratified by the judge. Our group has already submitted in May 2014 a bill to regulate a special competition procedure for consumers and users. It did not prosper by the opposition of the People's Party, but it is that other proposals such as the one presented in this Congress of Deputies by the Parliament of Catalonia in 2012, when it brought a bill adopted there unanimously, and when I say unanimity I also refer to the People's Party, which approved it in Catalonia and rejected it in the Congress of Deputies. The People's Party proposed a few months ago in isolation an amendment to the insufficient Competition Law, which does not comprehensively address the impact of the crisis or the human and family consequences or dramas that banks and the crisis have generated in the last eight years. It is clear that we are proposing and advocating an initiative of the special competitive procedure by negotiated procedure which implies that, as long as this procedure is initiated, no single judicial or extrajudicial executions or administrative and tax pressures can be initiated. We are in favour of the possibility of setting aside. The proposal of Convergence i d ́Unió does not clearly contemplate it and the People's Party rejects it. We are in favour of payment, something which also defends the proposal of Convergence i d ́Unió but which does not defend the People's Party. We advocate preserving the essential means of living of the debtor, consumer and user, and that their right to food should not be reduced to less than one third of their usual income. This is not contemplated in the proposed law of Convergence and Union, nor is it assumed by the People's Party in its law reform passed two months ago. We made a proposal in which we clearly advocated a special procedure for consumers and users that would genuinely ensure that launches were stopped without a time limit at the moment, and that the debtor in good faith could restructure his debt so that he could maintain access to habitual housing - I insist, to habitual housing - and that credits for access to basic goods, as well as to basic supplies, were forgiven. A second chance law is needed that provides coverage not only to principal debtors, but also to guarantors and guarantors linked to the debtor, which ensures the prevalence of work credits, both in pre-competitive processes and in competitive processes. We are very clear that it is essential, not this Government, because it has a different sensitivity to what we express, that the future Government clearly addresses a proposal for a guaranteed minimum income for citizens so that good faith debtors, economically and vitally trapped in their debts, can truly have a second chance. To this end, it is necessary to regulate the competitive procedures that ensure proper debt restructuring, and above all that ensure that minimum income for subsistence, access and enjoyment of housing and also basic supplies are excluded from the debt execution process. But no doubt the maximum guarantee of a second chance is that the person can have a minimum income with which to survive and meet his or her responsibilities as a debtor. With what we are saying, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the next government - this one does not, because it has another sensitivity - will really propose a second chance law that responds to the real problems that the whole of Spanish citizenship has, as a result of a crisis that has brought to ruin and in difficulty many citizens of our country. That is our will and we have expressed it; we have expressed it with a proposal for a law that we put forward in its day, we have defended it in the Parliament of Catalonia, it has been brought to the Congress of Deputies, and the sensitivity of the People's Party has been to reject each of those proposals that allowed us to move towards a way of understanding parliamentary action and political action for the benefit of the whole citizenry. The next Government will certainly be more sensitive to address these problems caused by a crisis in a comprehensive manner, as a result of the usury of the banks and the inability of the current Government to respond to the needs of the citizens as a whole. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u33	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Moya. Finally, for the Socialist Group, Mr Caldera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u34	Thank you, Madam President. The effects of the crisis, as all the spokesmen pointed out, have been devastating, have not ended and proportionally, ladies and gentlemen, when one looks at what happened in our country, one can contemplate how the main impact has been on individuals and self-employed people, who have suffered the most from this crisis. People who, due to an over-indebtedness that they did not incur in bad faith, but in good faith, have seen their goods blocked and their expectations of life and future paralyzed, on many occasions with truly tragic results. The regulations were quite inflexible and did not meet the needs of these families, of these natural persons, of these micro-entrepreneurs or of these affected companies. That is why many reforms had to be carried out quite quickly. Mr Pujalte indicated this: three in the previous legislature, three in this legislature. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of progress, I acknowledge that, with the cooperation of all the parliamentary groups, but there is still room for improvement, there are still procedures to be modified, there are still alternatives to follow. That is why, Mrs Ciuro, my group will vote in favour of your proposal for a law, which brings something essential: the simplification of procedures. My parliamentary group has already tabled an amendment to the Second Opportunity Act aimed at this end: simplification of procedures for hundreds of thousands of natural persons, hundreds of thousands of self-employed persons with little wealth, whose liabilities are below the EUR 3 million proposed by the law, but that the complexities of the procedure, its costs, its demands have made it impossible for them to come to it. And unfortunately on many occasions their assets have been completely liquidated, and what is worse, still Article 1.911 states that their debts will be eternal, and this is a quite remarkable contradiction. The Second Opportunity Act partly solved this problem, but I am speaking for the future, ladies and gentlemen, we have to solve it completely. Look at the contradiction. A company can break down, can clean up its past, can eliminate its debts and can restart its activities. Not a person, not a human being, not a parent. Debts may persecute him forever, and this is a remarkable contradiction in a world that must approach direct solutions in favor of the most needy. It is an economic and social tragedy that has happened. Think of families, of workers who have lost their jobs, of small entrepreneurs or self-employed people who have become extremely over-indebted because those who have provided their services have not been paid, including public administrations, and who are in a dramatic situation before which the public authorities cannot close their eyes. I say again, ladies and gentlemen, that legislation has improved considerably, but still contains shortcomings. What incorporates this bill is reasonable, it also has some errors, but they can always be remediable. And for the future I hope that this Parliament, the Spanish society, will be able to resolve it, will be able to put in place appropriate legislation to prevent such difficult situations, because, ladies and gentlemen, up to now, housing - I am talking about habitual housing and I am talking about the situation of a debtor in good faith - has been regarded as an asset with economic value for commercial traffic. No, no, The usual housing is much more than that. It is the place of the affections and the projection of life of millions of families. It's the place where your children were born and where they were raised. It transcends far beyond its economic content. It is possible to give the circumstance that one day - I hope that soon and I urge the future Government, the future chambers to resolve it - we will be able to create a right of citizenship that means that the holder of a habitual dwelling, the one in which he usually lives, who owes good faith for causes that have occurred, must not lose it - legislation must guarantee above all that fact - because it has negative economic consequences and also negative social consequences. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, one last word, Madam President, since it will probably be my last speech in this House, in which I have taken a seat with great honour on behalf of the Spanish citizens for thirty-three years. As my last intervention will probably be, allow me to make a recommendation to you, ladies and gentlemen, that those who continue to resolve this problem. It's possible. You know why? Because everyone here is part of a community, we are not strange elements. Communities advance when they have confidence and self-esteem, and Spanish society has reasons for self-esteem. Spanish society has advanced in the last thirty-eight years in developed countries. Saving the case of the economic and social development of South Korea, the other great example of economic and social progress has been that of Spanish society. Please note that the differences in disposable income in our country between the least advanced and the most advanced communities are smaller than the differences in disposable income between southern and northern Italy or between Thuringia, Germany, and Hamburg. This is a country where today we see brilliant young people, polyglots, very well-prepared young people, some denounce the 1978 regime, who were able to achieve this brilliantness because of the equitable access to the education system that the last two generations of Spaniards have conquered, and of which I am deeply proud. It is a country that has been able with its society - and I finish, Madam President - to build a formidable social capital, if not, it would not have been understood how a country with 26% unemployment in the last seven years has not broken down. It has not been broken, because it has been able to equip itself with a formidable social capital, to modernise its institutions, to advance its infrastructures and to make a spectacular leap in economic and social development. There are many problems that need to be corrected and resolved, of course, but allow me this appeal to self-esteem. It would seem, from what one hears, that there is no self-esteem in Spanish society. There must be, and I'll give you two last examples. I am therefore proud of this society to which I have represented thirty-three years in this Parliament. Two examples. Spanish society is the one where more organs are donated from all over the world, ladies and gentlemen, and where the system of organ donation management, something vital, is the best in the world as well. It has been set by the European Union as an example to be followed by the rest of the countries, many of which are more advanced in per capita income than we are. Such a society, where there is such a high degree of solidarity, is an esteemable society. Similarly, a society like ours is the one that most children adopt in proportion to the world's inhabitants, and not just the one that most children adopt, but the one that best integrates adopted children into their families, and such a society has very positive elements. Of course there's a high unemployment! Of course there is a serious economic crisis! We will overcome it, ladies and gentlemen, and among other things I ask you to be able to illuminate that new right of citizenship which implies that a human being when he has his habitual home for which so many efforts have done not to lose it because of causes not attributable to him, as a result of an economic crisis, and that the public hand helps him to preserve it, because I am sure that with his subsequent effort he will return, and with much, the effort that the Administration has previously made in his behalf. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u35	Mr Caldera, I am sorry to have to say goodbye, because I believe that it is up to you, like other colleagues, and to some fellow Member who is going to intervene later, to give this country a great deal to give and a lot of example to give to this Parliament. I am sorry to say goodbye, because he has been a great parliamentarian, a man who has contributed to the development that you yourself have raised and that I share with you in your last presentation. I wish you the best in the world, because you have been a great companion. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u36	We turn to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. Firstly, that of the People's Parliamentary Group on compliance with UN Security Council Resolution 1325. For her presentation and defence, Mrs González Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In 1905 Baroness Bertha von Suttner, Austrian, honorary president of the International Peace Bureau, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. She was the second woman, after Marie Curie, to win this distinction and the first to win the prize in this category. After that, fifteen other women, many of them from geographical areas torn apart by bloody war conflicts, such as Burma, Iran, Liberia and Yemen, have been highlighted with this award for their contribution to solving the problems whose origin and evolution history has kept them on the sidelines for centuries. The last Nobel Peace Prize, the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize, was awarded to Malala Yousafzai of Pakistan for her courageous struggle for the right of girls to education in her country. On 31 October 2015, one hundred and ten years after Baroness von Suttner wrote: peace is and should be the only effort of all women, fifteen years after the adoption by the United Nations Security Council of Resolution 1325, an historic, innovative resolution that recognizes two essential issues: on the one hand, the need for special protection of women and children in the event of war conflict, in the event of war, since they are among the most harmed human beings, particularly women, spoils of war from the beginning of history and subjected to all kinds of rape and sexual violence. On the other hand, there is the observation that the resolution of wars at the negotiating tables is done outside the hands of women, which are usually left out of decision-making that will fundamentally affect their future, since they are half the population of the region on which decisions are being taken that will establish the political frame of reference from that time on. That is why this resolution marks a time before and a time after the work of the United Nations, since maintaining the need for special protection for women as victims of war, it draws attention to the imperative need to incorporate them as agents with voice and vote, with their own demands in the post-conflict negotiations, and as essential subjects in the maintenance of peace and concord at the post-war stage. As Unifem said in his day: the peace tables continue to be the fief of the architects of the conflict, of the generals participating in the battles, and not of those who want to put an end to it, among them evidently women. Sergio Vieira de Mello, the recalled United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, tragically killed in Iraq in an attack in 2003, said in relation to the bloody conflict in Timor-Leste: women are a factor of stability and reconciliation. Their contributions can improve the quality of decisions and the effectiveness of recovery efforts. From the UN we promote the participation of women, because they have the same right as men to take part in decisions and because their contribution brings added value in all of them. Resolution 1325 proposes to increase women's participation in peace processes and decision-making for the prevention of war conflicts, as well as to support this task technically and financially. It also urged the United Nations to increase the participation of women as special representatives and envoys in missions, both as observers, police, soldiers and humanitarian personnel. It also strongly supported the introduction of a gender perspective in the training and training of personnel working in peace agreements and missions, and the obligation to implement the provisions of international humanitarian law to protect women, boys and girls during and after conflict, with special attention to sexual violence, ending impunity for crimes related to such violence. That is to say, it incorporates into the management of war conflicts the so-called three-party strategy: the prevention of conflict through active intervention by women, the participation of women themselves in security and peace matters, and the protection of civilians - and particularly women again - from gender-based violence, rape and other forms of sexual abuse, as well as from trafficking in women and children, which systematically leads to the situation of war. The resolution further recommends that Member States draw up and approve national plans setting out how they will implement resolution decisions in their work, both internally and in their deployment to external missions. Since its adoption, some 50 countries have adopted these national plans, which is a significant number. In Spain, on 30 November 2007, the Council of Ministers approved the action plan, which was drawn up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. At the international level, both NATO and the European Union and OSCE have followed the premise of the resolution in launching their respective actions, but despite all this, now that the 15th anniversary of its adoption is approaching and the process of revision of the resolution is complete on 22 October, we are concerned that progress has been relatively limited and that the number of women participating in the peace and post-war processes, both in the United Nations peace forces and in the negotiations, is very small. Although the concept of security has been significantly improved through an integrated vision that incorporates women and girls, in 2014 97 per cent of military peacekeepers and 90 per cent of the police deployed by the United Nations, and therefore by their member States, are men, although the goal was to achieve 20 per cent of women. And out of a total of 585 peace agreements signed between 1990 and 2010, only 92 contained references to women. They continue to suffer sexual violence in the war conflicts that are taking place right now in Mali, the Central African Republic, Ivory Coast, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Nigeria, and ultimately recently in Syria. In its candidature to the United Nations Security Council for the biennium 2015-2016, the Government of Spain identified gender equality as one of the main objectives of its foreign policy and diplomacy. Our country will preside over the Security Council next October, coinciding with the high-level review to assess progress in the implementation of Resolution 1325, which in turn coincides with the 70th anniversary of the United Nations, a circumstance that makes both ephemerides particularly important. In this regard, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation has recently participated in a high-level meeting in New York, in which he expressed his country's willingness to pursue ambitious goals in this area, and stressed the will to accelerate the implementation of the resolution, improving the protection of girls and women in conflict situations, and in particular the protection of human rights activists or indigenous women, the creation of an informal group of experts to promote the implementation of the resolution, the intensification of collaboration with civil society, and a key theme: the mobilization of accurate resources, launching an information campaign that contributes to the necessary work. All this could lead to the elaboration of a new resolution defining the role of the Security Council in this area, which would enable the United Nations global system to demand results or even incorporate new measures against new threats, such as the role of women in combating violent extremism. The People's Parliamentary Group wishes to express, as the Senate has done very recently, its satisfaction with the Government's proposals, urging it, through the non-law proposal that we now advocate that these objectives set for the coming month of October be extremely ambitious, with the measures articulated in this document in very detail: to ensure the active participation and protection of women throughout the United Nations system, and particularly in peace operations with adequate material and personal resources; to promote women's participation in all international discussions on peace, security and development; to promote women's leadership, both at United Nations Headquarters and in deployed operations; to request from all Member States the funding necessary to implement the Women's, Peace and Security Agenda, including national plans of action, with at least 15 per cent of all expenditure on crisis and conflict management; and to defend the right of girls to access to education, especially in conflict situations. President, I would like to conclude my speech by acknowledging the great work done by Mrs Carmen Quintanilla, the chairman of the Equality Commission of this House, who has led the presentation of this non-legislative proposal, which today does not stand up in this rostrum for an agenda issue. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your commitment to such an important issue for all women living in very complicated situations in different parts of the world. [[Applauds]] I conclude by asking the rest of the groups in the House to join this proposal, which involves not only the Spanish Government, but all the States of the United Nations and the organization itself in a more intense and effective way, with a greater capacity to assess the progress achieved, so that the phrase that writer Christa Wolf puts in the mouth of Casandra, the famous Greek prophetess, can finally be made a third possibility: to live. This is the possibility of women and it has always been. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u38	Thank you, Mrs. González Vazquez. In support of the amendment by the Plural Left Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u39	Thank you, President. My group attends this debate with the best intention; I say this because we basically agree. We believe that this is a positive proposal and of course we will support it. It is true that fifteen years ago since the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1325, which at the time represented a historic milestone in the consideration of the role of women in conflict and post-conflict situations, it meant above all the recognition of the dual facet of women in conflict situations; as a victim of violence, but also as a necessary and indispensable agent for lasting peace. We agree, but we would still like to strengthen the concept of women as a preventive agent before the conflict arises. That is why we have tabled an amendment which we would like the proposing group to take into account. The amendment is very simple. It says: Increase efforts for conflict prevention, building on systematic gender analysis and the promotion of gender equality, and further addressing the main causes of conflict, such as social and economic inequalities, unequal access to basic services and resources, the effects of climate change, poor governance, poor accountability and militarism. More comprehensive support should also be provided for the role and participation of women in conflict prevention and resolution initiatives, as well as addressing political extremism. Just as the proposing group also wants the Security Council to renew its mandate and strengthen it, because after fifteen years we still have a lot to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u40	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Mr Agirretxea, first of all, in the turn of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u41	'Between women and girls, about fifteen were raped in different cottages in the village. The Yanyauld broke the limbs of several women and girls so they could not escape. They stayed in the village for about six or seven days. Over six days between five and six men raped us for hours, one after the other, every night. My husband couldn't forgive me after that, he repudiated me.' This is the testimony of a Sudanese refugee. Women and girls are subjected to widespread and systematic sexual violence at the hands of all parties to the armed conflict in Colombia: paramilitaries, members of the security forces and guerrilla fighters. They are raped and sexually abused to silence and punish them and are often treated as war trophies. Although some have been assaulted for reasons other than gender, many have been sexually abused by the mere fact of being women. Third report. The human rights organization Amnesty International has stated: Palestinian women have borne the burden of escalating conflict and decades of Israeli occupation while in Palestinian society they have been subjected to a system of laws and norms that treat them as unequal members in society. An Israeli woman says: 'In the control of the border there were several soldiers; they ignored us. I crawled behind a block of cement next to the control to have some privacy and gave birth there, in the dust, like an animal. I held my daughter in my arms and moved a little bit, but after a few minutes she died in my arms.' In turn, 17-year-old Rufayda Qaoud was raped by two of her siblings and when her family discovered that she was pregnant, her mother killed her, the mother who claims that she had to kill Rufayda to protect the honor of the family and that she has not been prosecuted. These are three random testimonies of three different Amnesty International reports. The three are truthful, one is in Sudan, another is in Colombia and the other is in Palestine and Israel. Clearly, the situation that women and girls suffer in and after armed conflict, as specified here, is doubly painful and overcomes any violation of human rights and dignity. Women, simply because they are female, are abused, raped, tortured and guilty whenever armed conflicts or wars occur, without a doubt those who endure and suffer the most severe consequences of this war. The reports of the UN, Amnesty International, various NGOs and international agencies working and operating in these areas are all devastating. It is true that letters have been taken in the matter, theoretically letters have been taken in the matter, but can we say that in practice policies have been carried out to eradicate all these barbarities that we have said? Unfortunately, we have to say no. Because - someone has said it - those who obviously have to implement policies that replace those that existed are the same people, the same bodies or the same groups that made such barbarities, we can never find a solution. Today we have this non-legislative proposal from the People's Party, which we think is good, but we believe that the Spanish Government can and must assert its position so that what we call Resolution 1325 is fulfilled. If this GNP had not been brought to this House and if the People's Party had not proposed it, would the Spanish Government not have asked the bodies responsible for it to comply with Resolution 1325? It's your obligation. I therefore think it is very good for the People's Party to propose this for all of us, but, regardless of whether we all approve of this, the Spanish Government is obliged to call for this resolution to be complied with. Returning to the content, the use - and I say use in the worst term of the word - of women is and has been throughout history a strategy of war, always. Mandatory pregnancies and deliveries are used by the invading army, whoever it may be, in the territory that may be, as a stigma, as a punishment for war, have occurred throughout history and have been a constant. The three cases we have talked about are a paradigmatic example without a doubt. Finally, how many women have been in power when such armed conflicts have occurred or where such armed conflicts have occurred? Probably none. Therefore, when it is said that peace is given an opportunity, I ask as a man that women be given an opportunity to be where they should be, because surely many conflicts that men have caused in the world might not have been given if women had been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u42	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Lleonart.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality of women and girls in conflict situations and their role in building peace will not improve without stronger and determined action and a clear political and funding boost to the objectives agreed by UN Resolution 1325. The phrase is not mine, the phrase is by María Solanas, programme coordinator of the Royal Elcano Institute, in the Women, Peace and Security report: far from the aspirations of Resolution 1325. That report, dated 15 September 2015, a few days ago, shows over nine pages that, after fifteen years of the historic resolution, the situation of women and girls, especially women and girls in conflict situations, has not improved as expected. Spain will preside over the United Nations Security Council when this reaches the age of fifteen years and this is a unique opportunity for our country to promote an agenda for gender equality and we commit ourselves not only to convening an open debate, but to really lead the necessary progress in this area. In 2007 Spain approved a national action plan implementing Resolution 1325. In fact, we were one of the first countries to approve one of these plans with specific objectives transferred to the national level. Eight years have passed since this plan was adopted, and it is time for us all to draw up a new national plan of action, taking into account the evaluation reports of the plan, both those issued by the public administration and those issued by civil society. On this point, I would like to dwell, not on the national plan, but on the need for new measures and actions. From our UPyD Parliamentary Group we have read very carefully the non-legislative proposal that the People's Parliamentary Group has brought and, given that it remains on mere declaratory issues, since it does not really make progress on the matter, it does not expand, it does not abound, it seems to us unambitious. In fact, we think that it is almost an institutional declaration, with good substance, but an institutional declaration, and we wonder whether this journey requires these saddlebags, the form that has been given to it. We could have agreed on a text among all the groups that could have been read by the President of the House and, in the end, the real effect it would have, because this is a proposal, would be the same. We said before that fifteen years have passed from the historic, ambitious and necessary Resolution 1325, but as we abound here today the United Nations has continued to work, they have continued to do so on the road to protection, prevention, and they have generated six more resolutions that include everything that the previous resolutions were developing, that are much more ambitious and that reflect aspects that this resolution did not include, with which what we should be dealing with and to which we should aspire, if we are truly ambitious and want to protect women and girls in conflict more and better, is that the objectives of 1325 are obviously met, but also that those of all subsequent resolutions that have been developed, including the last, of 2013, 2122. Despite this, because since UPyD we are convinced that we have a long way to go in defending the rights of women and girls, especially in conflict situations, and because we need to remember ourselves, we will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u44	Thank you, Mr. Lleonart. Convergence and Union Group. First of all, Mr. Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Nuet described the adoption of resolution 1325 as a historic milestone and, indeed, with the expectation of women's participation in decision-making for the prevention and resolution of armed conflict and the construction of a lasting peace, it was. It is also worth recalling the resulting resolutions in this regard and above all resolution 2106 of 2013, which called for us - and demands us - to do more to implement the previous mandates. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the current situation of numerous armed conflicts in Africa or the Middle East, the non-legislative proposal made by the People's Parliamentary Group is entirely right, but we would have liked it to have taken one more step, and I will explain myself. Resolution 1325 was not conceived as an instrument for achieving equal rights between men and women, but in practice it has served that purpose. Armed violence exposes and exacerbates the permanent conditions of violence under which many women in the world live, direct violence and structural violence. That is why the steps taken to protect them or to make their voice heard in conflict situations must be confronted with the inequality and discrimination that women experience. Although the resolution calls for the protection of women as a vulnerable group in conflict situations, the notion of victims and actors for its resolution calls for the promotion of the right of women to be recognized as subjects with their own voice. Precisely this recognition of their participation in conflict resolution is a reaffirmation of the right to equality. Therefore, we could have taken one more step in this non-law proposition. I would like to recall that last week the United Nations Assembly approved the sustainable development goals, and the fifth objective is aimed at this. Finally, a universal and comprehensive agenda for the next fifteen years called for the recognition of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls. I miss this situation in your non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u46	Mr. Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u48	Thank you, Mr. Picó. Mr. Guillaumes, for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u49	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about Resolution 1325, which, as far as I know - perhaps I am mistaken - is the only one that is held annually in universities and in many civic and public events, and it is not by chance. In international law, in the event of conflict, there is a small treasure, which is the Geneva Conventions. It is a treasure because they have been signed by virtually all the countries on the planet, but precisely on the subject of gender they hardly speak; they speak in a very sense of their time of defending the honor and modesty of women. This gap is filled by resolution 1325 and the subsequent six complementing it. We are talking about attention to the gender issue not only with regard to women as victims, but also with regard to women when trying to resolve the conflict, to deal with the other victims of the conflict, and when negotiating the solutions to the conflict, the role of women is essential for two reasons: one obvious: they are 50% of the population, and the other because they have a specific problem that is obvious and unfortunately concrete in trafficking and sexual abuse, a specific problem that needs to be addressed. There's a famous phrase that says there's no peace without women. That's right. That the wounds that arise from conflict are cured and that it is then the woman who has a clearer memory of the conflict and who, within the family context, remembers it so that it does not recur is absolutely essential for conflict prevention. We, from humility, on the day a national plan is made, will give some advice - because, as some other spokesman has said, we are faced with a very generic statement - first - very quickly - that the Spanish Army's operations when acting in conflict take into account all that is provided for in the Penal Code as regards the defence of women, because it is prolific, complete and would allow for a much more decisive action; second, that they have clear instructions to act on gender issues and that in no case, in any negotiation of any conflict is included, within the amnesty of those who have generated the conflict, amnesty for situations of sexual abuse. This may complicate a negotiation, but in the long run, if these people know that this is never going to be amnestyed, it will be the solution so that these things do not happen in this kind of conflict. With these contributions and also looking forward to the amendment proposed by the Plural Left, we welcome the celebration of the initiative of this resolution. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u50	Thank you, Mr. Guillaumes. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 31 October 2000, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 1325. This was the first time that the Security Council had addressed the role of women in situations of armed conflict and post-conflict situations. Since then, six other relevant resolutions have been adopted on women in conflict situations, on sexual violence as a weapon of war, on the role of women in peace processes and negotiations. In total, there are already seven resolutions that constitute what we call an important, relevant, normative acquis in relation to women in peace and security. In this regard, next 31 October, we will celebrate the fifteenth anniversary of the adoption of this resolution, an anniversary that will coincide with the Spanish presidency of the United Nations Security Council, and it is in this context that the People's Group has brought this non-legislative proposal that we are debating and that I am already announcing that my group will support it. Resolution 1325 was an unquestionable milestone at the global level in raising awareness of suffering, the vulnerability of women and girls in armed conflict and the importance of their involvement in their prevention and resolution processes. It is a document that is very concise, but does not present any ambiguity. It is a document that urges, calls for, and calls for, concrete action and commitments by both the UN and its bodies and Member States. The importance and vitality of this resolution is found not only in the total or partial repetition of subsequent resolutions, but also in the incorporation of the demands of the resolution into the ways in which States belonging to the UN act. The inclusion of women in UN missions, either as observers or as members of the force, such as Spain, the concern about the increase in the presence of women in conflict resolution processes or the incorporation of their needs into the list of issues to be addressed in the context of conflict resolution, are examples of the validity and relevance of this document. Spain has also been no stranger to the importance of the resolution and its demands. In 2007, the Socialist Government approved the Action Plan for Resolution 1325, a plan which two years later had its implementation in the field of development cooperation with the Women's Action Plan and the construction of peace of Spanish cooperation. These two plans have served as a framework for a very important investment effort, a strong support for the demands and structures of the United Nations for the development of women and children and, by the way, giving great importance to the fight against gender-based violence, which is one of the most serious problems we have in Spanish society and in international society as a whole. Therefore, no one should be surprised by my group's support for this initiative. It is true that the Government closed the United Nations office here in Spain in December 2012 and it is true that we have been able to disagree in many of the laws and regulatory developments in which we have been able to be involved, but, ladies and gentlemen, as the President recalled a moment ago, this is going to be my last intervention in this House and I was thinking that if I take stock of the last thirty years in which I have been dedicated to politics, the balance is very positive. I think that the women of all political groups have worked and fought a lot together. We have been able to have discrepancies, but these have been given more for political reasons than for convictions and for reasons of defending women's freedom and rights. I look back and think about everything we've built to get what we have today, which is a developed, modern, egalitarian country of rights and freedoms. It's so much we've got that it's worth it. Others are coming now, they will take over, and I am sure they will also do very well, but I remain with that good taste of mouth that I have always tried to reconcile, to dialogue, to reach agreements, to reach consensus. I think that's something we can boast about many of the ones we're sitting here today. Therefore, it has been such a positive balance that it also means a lot to be able to thank all those with whom I have had the opportunity to work over these years. Much remains to be done, but it has really been a lot that we have already achieved. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Jiménez. Before that, I had to address another colleague in this House, Mr Caldera - what was done in other plenary sessions with other colleagues from different political groups - in this House, and, frankly, in Mrs Jiménez's case, it means one more step for me. I believe that the election campaigns in Malaga are not going to be the same without Mrs Jiménez, I can guarantee that. She has been a wonderful companion, she has been a person who defends the same rights as I defend and we defend all the women we sit here and we are all deeply proud that she has been a deputy and minister for so long. Congratulations and thank you very much, Mrs. Jiménez. [[Applauds]] Mrs González, with regard to the amendment, yes or no? As Christ teaches us, they said in my time.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u53	I'll tell you in a few minutes, President, because we're going to negotiate a text.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u54	Perfect. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS OF REFUGEES. [[File number 162/001298]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u55	We therefore move on to the next item on the agenda, the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal on the humanitarian refugee crisis. Mrs Esteve has the floor for her defence and presentation. [[Pause]] Mrs. Esteve. [[Pause]] She's excited.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u56	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, forgive me, but I was somewhat distracted, speaking precisely of the refugees, of the subject before us today. I want to tell you a little bit about how this starts. In the Socialist Parliamentary Group some time ago - I imagine it is the same for all of you - this issue has been taking up and worrying us. I believe that not only have we become aware, but we have become aware that the political groups, those with public responsibilities, we could not be alienated from the problem, from human drama, from deaths, and that something we had to do, not only because of the obligations that the State and this Parliament have, but something else, something that we can be satisfied with today and that we are presenting a non-law proposal whose very prompt data have become obsolete. This gives us an idea of the dynamics of the subject, of how events are happening, with more and more loss of life, more horror and more flight. This has allowed - also thanks to the group supporting the Government - that today we are presenting an amendment that is not from the Socialist Group, but from all the groups that are here, an amendment that probably does not reflect what each of the groups separately would have put or the demands that each of us have on how this or that thing has to go - the budget, the competences - but I think this is less important than being able to agree on ten points that are not a point of arrival but a point of departure to walk and give an example to the citizen that this Parliament is able not only to act with rigour and rationality but also with understanding, empathy and taking charge of the pain of human beings, which are the two fundamental aspects that I believe have this amendment that we are presenting. It is an amendment that belongs to everyone, although probably each of the groups will then say that it does not contain something they would have liked and that it is fundamental. We have every right to defend those particularities that are not collected here, but there are ten points on which I think it is worth remembering what we are committed to today and in the end - perhaps because we have been with Antonio Trevín, with all the colleagues, with Beatriz, Betina, working - one has the feeling that this is inside, that it is part of oneself. It seems to me that these points are important and I will review them in the time I have left, which is still quite. The non-legislative proposal reflects, first, an overall vision and sets out objectives for action at the different levels - international, European and national. We are responsible for the role we have to play with all international bodies and with our own. Secondly, to support a genuine common European policy. Please note that this is not a subject of aggregations or wishes of both countries. The global world involves global commitments and Europe must also respond to the challenges globally, with principles, with integration, with help and with the cooperation of third countries. Thirdly, to commit the Government - today of the People's Party, tomorrow we will see what the ballot boxes will say, but this is a passport for all, it is a guarantee, a cushion in which we are all going to settle - that the Government commits itself to the participation of all administrations in planning, i.e. from the beginning, it is not done for, but it is done with, therefore, acceptance and integration. We also urge the Government to establish an economic fund to support reception and integration because it is essential. Enabling money - in addition to what will come from Europe - also means a commitment to what we have to do in each of the territories, which is where the most impact will have the arrival of these people, who deserve the best of us. Fourth, to promote an awareness campaign. Look, this issue we all consider very important, Carles. Why? Because with our example we are telling the citizens that it is not so much this punctual help that one does - and it does well to feel and want to welcome and want to help - but that it is done on the basis of a planned project that allows to go beyond emotions, that allows life, that allows coexistence, that allows to co-exist new realities that change every day and that are very dynamic. This seems to me very beautiful, very beautiful and also avoids the appearance of racist or xenophobic attitudes. But what I highlighted was the commitment, to establish a reciprocal commitment to support the above lines, what has been done; we have done things better or worse and perhaps worse than better, because the issue of asylum did not occupy, like immigration, a foreground in our work, in our priorities, probably because the pressure was not so high. It is true that we must improve on this subject and there is no occasion like this to do so. It must be removed from the confrontation of political parties. Do not put a refugee in your group to throw him in the face of the other because it would be to despise the human value that this performance entails; therefore, out of confrontation. I'm finishing up. Beyond all this, we have a moral obligation, as a country, to engage with people persecuted for conflicts and wars who try to save their lives with their own lives. Today it's Syria, it's Eritrea, it's all those countries where every day we see images of horror, but before that it was us. Let's remember the images after our Civil War, fleeing to France and Latin America: 800,000 people moved. The memory is sometimes short and it is a matter of not losing it and of understanding that there are dynamics in this global world that generate injustice and defencelessness of human beings and that sometimes the countries we host ourselves are the cause of them; it is cause, response, responsibility, where it begins and where it ends. When refugees are fleeing, when they cross borders, when they meet with fences, they deserve to be given a chance at the end, as human beings, to be welcomed. We used to talk about minors, about how many minors - about 70,000 - could be passing through Spain. We are talking about a terrible phenomenon and I ask you for solidarity in a pure state and rationality and politics in a pure state too. Let's turn this alienation into integration, let's finally build a flexible model of coexistence. We do not build so that everything stays the same, we build to adapt to a world that changes every day in our neighborhoods and in our cities, each with its history. The current moment demands from politicians - and I finish - flexibility, direction, understanding, long look but also concrete, thinking of new paradigms of coexistence that we have to weave every day not to look for the ideal world, which surely does not exist, but to contribute to the best possible world. [[The Lord]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Esteve. Several amendments have been tabled to this initiative. We begin with the Joint Group and I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Esteve, it is a great pleasure that in one of the last plenary sessions of this parliamentary term we can deal with an issue on which Spanish society asked us for responsibility, asked us for dialogue, asked us not to have a political confrontation. It is a great satisfaction that we give dignity to that representation that we have of the people of this country, that we do not follow the example of other European countries that are thinking of political keys, political pacts, speeches of electoral campaigns and that today we achieve a political consensus on the issue of refugees. It's a topic that's not starting. The European agreement that has been reached is a small drop and until there is a definitive solution in all areas of conflict, mainly at this time in Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq, will be there. Let's live up to the circumstances. I am glad that a proposal made by this Member, perhaps because of the sensitivity of having lived it, on the subject of minors has been included in the proposal. I'm glad you're there specifically. That Unicef complaint, almost a week ago, that there are 100,000 unaccompanied immigrant minors wandering around Europe is a matter to consider. Spain has a lot of experience in the management of unaccompanied immigrant minors. We need to bring it and we need to know that we can be at the forefront of such a sensitive matter. We do not want to see children on the beach, but neither do we want to see abandoned children in Europe. Before I finish, allow me, Madam President, to address Mrs Trinidad Jiménez, because as a canary I lived with her the other drama of immigration. One of the most important policies was cooperation with countries in the African-Canary environment, making development, making cooperation. The Institute of Tropical Medicine is currently a benchmark in Africa and Latin America, fighting malaria, bringing African and Latin American researchers, having one of Spain's two high-risk laboratories, and would never have been achieved without the sensitivity she had with this Member at the time. It is an example - we are talking about refugees and we are talking about development - of what this country has to be. Thank you very much and make it nice. Thank you, Members. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Esteve, the memory is short and Spain has not been an example of anything about refugees. In thirty years Spain has welcomed as many refugees as in one year Germany. I remind you that when we made the Law of 2009 - with which we were very critical because it became one of the most restrictive laws in Europe - even though it governed social democracy in the Spanish State, 10% of what was hosted by the Italian Republic of Berlusconi, with which everything is said. Eurostat data for 2014: European Union 185,000 applications; Spain 1,583 concessions. Then the Spanish state became a fortress. Despite that, despite the fact that the Spanish State is not a State alien to many war conflicts, it is the cause of this horrific diaspora, despite the sale of weapons to States that violate human rights, despite the fact that we have repeatedly been rejected amendments in recent years - I am talking about many years ago - which tended to increase resources for refugees, in spite of everything we voted in favour. We are also proposing two amendments in voice which we have tabled following the somewhat irregular procedure of this initiative. First, we call for a compromise to be made so that we can vote. We call for the inclusion in point 7 that a distribution of refugees among the autonomous communities should be ensured in proportion to the population parameter or perhaps to the GDP parameter; I do not care, it can be discussed. Secondly, we propose that the proposed fund be the resources that are transferred and distributed to the Autonomous Communities according to the number of refugees, so that they can carry out what we intend to do well within the framework of their competences. Why? Because if it's clear today, we'll avoid future fights. You say that we should not use refugees politically; of course, it would be a mortal sin, but let us do it right from the beginning, because, as we come from where we come from and know how many times we have despised our proposals for many years in everything that affects refugees, we want to heal ourselves in health. So, I ask you to include these two variables in the transactional that we finally make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u61	Mr Iñarritu also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Amaiur will support this proposal, although, to tell the truth, it has cost us, since some of the statements made in the exhibition are fallacies. Among them are some that obviate those words of the minister when he described refugees as leaks and criminalized them by dropping that some might have jihadist ties, when it is precisely the people who flee from jihadism that are coming, or when he spoke of assaults or invasions. On the one hand they tell us that Spain is up to it, but on the other hand they tell us that they have contributed to a systematic, generous and effective European action. It's a joke, isn't it? Go to Melilla and you will see that there are 1,500 Syrians overcrowded in CETI, with their families blocked in Nador, who can only access European territory by paying para-police mafias. Children have to pass through the hands of the mafias and all this is happening on a European border. There is no need to look at the Syrians who are now in Greece, Macedonia or Hungary; there is already a problem here, in this territory, where Spain is up - you say - but up to the mud. On the other hand, Mrs Esteve told us that there is an ethical and moral duty, but it goes far beyond that, there is a legal duty. There are directives, there are laws and there are conventions that are not being complied with and that Spain jumps to the toaster. Similarly, we are told that this humanitarian crisis is due to the displacement of thousands and thousands of people, but the cause is not displacement, the causes are other in which the governments of the European Union have often been accomplices by action or omission. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. It is curious that we are told that they continue to adapt the regulations, when neither the governments of the Socialist Party nor those of the People's Party have moved a finger to transpose directives and adopt regulations to the Asylum Act. In short, Amaiur supports these proposals as a first step, as a minimum, but misses other proposals that speak of legal and safe routes of free movement, rescue and rescue and family reunification. Having said that, let us hope that this will serve as a first step against the shameful attitude that the Government has maintained so far in this matter. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u63	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. Mr Olabarría has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Esteve, I would like to congratulate you on your rhetorical quality, which is indisputable, but not on the material content of everything you have said, because everyone knows at this point that rhetoric often covers the exact identity of the problems to be solved. You are right; you are so right that my group is going to withdraw, Mr President, the four amendments that I was keeping alive in relation to this proposal, because I understand that consensus is a pre-eminent value in a matter of this magnitude and of this dramatism about any position that we can legitimately maintain by the various parliamentary groups. The courteous one doesn't take away the brave one. I would like to address Mrs Trinidad Jiménez personally, because in the last part-session, Mr President, we are regularly attending the farewell of people who have constituted real parliamentary assets in the history of these incipient democratic transitions of the Spanish State. In the next plenary session, other people will be fired. Whoever happens to you doesn't lease the profit, and this takes it to inventory benefit. I don't know what you're going to have to manage, but I can now hope it won't be easy. In any case and said this, Mrs Esteve, you certainly know, because it has been published in a widely distributed media and that you surely read every day, which says an Iranian philosopher and professor of the University of Toronto, Ramin Jahanbegloo. With regard to the problem before us, he affirms that the world of suffering and tragedy of migrants that Europe contemplates today is as far away from its thoughts - from the thoughts of Europe - as the most remote of the planets. I share this view, as well as other particularly illustrative reflections by this Iranian philosopher, a professor at the University of Toronto. Your rhetoric cannot compensate for this lucid reflection, because it has shortcomings that you know perfectly well, as I know them. We are going to relativize them by dying of the need for consensus, even what you originally recommended, which is the need for a state pact, because if any problem requires a consensus that is at least close to a state pact, it is this one that we are living with. However, many things are missing in your proposal, and they are missing because you have sought consensus by renouncing part of your intellectual property and part of your approaches to the problems that affect us. You have presented us with a non-legislative proposal that cuts across the optimistic desideratum. Here too, we must comment on those aspects that must be the subject of criticism. What is more positive than what you are presenting to us is that the problem of emigration, the problem of foreigners and the problem of refugees are either communitised or given a European dimension - finally, after so many years - to the problem of emigration, the problem of foreigners and the problem of refugees. This problem is accepted as a relevant aspect for all or almost all the countries of the European Union, but there are many problems which you do not deal with in order to obtain the consensus which has made possible something very similar to a state pact, which is a non-law proposal, an insufficient legal and also parliamentary instrument for setting up a state pact on this matter. To what extent is a quota policy reasonable and consistent with the requirements of the Geneva Convention, its New York development protocol and the requirements of the Vienna Treaty? Why a quota policy? Since when do refugee status and the acquisition of the right to asylum have to be plotted in the form of quotas? The Spanish State's quota does not reach 0.036 % of the Spanish State's population. Is this position generous? Are we going to reflect apologetically on the generosity of the Spanish State in accepting refugees - who have all the legitimacy of the world to be recognized, because they are persecuted, their refugee status and the right of asylum - when the Spanish legislation itself, the regulation of Law 12/2009, which you demand and we too, is pending development? Why have all public institutions been advanced by civil society? Why have Amnesty International, Acnur or the Catholic Church been brought before us? All the institutions, individuals, families and football clubs have acted more quickly and surely more in solidarity with each other than the institution that represents the sovereignty of the Spanish State. We need to make a self-critical reflection on this issue that your rhetoric has sweetened by the loss of consensus. Why does the European Commission not reflect much more strongly on what is being done in countries such as Hungary and others, which raise shameful and shameful fences, contrary to the acquis communautaire, in addition to the conventions we have cited, such as the Geneva Convention, in relation to refugees and asylum seekers? That is contrary to the acquis communautaire. A country which practises these policies cannot belong - Mr Juncker should tell you - to the European Union because it is not part of the guiding principles of the acquis communautaire, which are the rules, the philosophy and the guiding principles of a kind of construct that we are doing in the Community countries, based on the fundamental rights and public freedoms of treaties that are signed even by Hungary paradoxically. Look at the extent to which we are coming to the paradox, because the Spanish State is also setting itself as an example when its foreign policy is what you and I know. The hot return has just been legalized; the CIES are in the situation that has been commented on by some spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the word, but the most serious are some reflections of relevant people of the People's Party, who do not root in xenophobia, is that they penetrate directly into it, stigmatizing people fleeing from terrorism.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u65	Mr. Olabarría, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u66	I'm done, Mr. President. And as always, the great firefighter of the People's Party government, the vice-president, has had to go out and give a press conference specifically to try to mitigate the destructive effect of these xenophobic reflections. From this perspective, I thank you for your optimism, your goodness. It is the first normative approach to a real state policy in this area, and we must thank it, but it knows the shortcomings, difficulties and mental reserves that you, me and all the others generate a proposition of these characteristics. The good of consensus is a good - almost a value - superior to the legal system and that is why we will vote yes. The material content is still so deleterious that you, I, and I wish everyone else - when I say everyone else I am referring also to the Minister of the Interior, occupied in other avatars of greater conceptual dimension surely - we have to move towards much more concrete positions that set up a policy of asylum and shelter that at least sympathizes - I only ask that -...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u67	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u68	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u69	No, it's just that you have to finish because you're repeating the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u70	I'm done, Mr. President. ... with Spanish legislation in this area. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u71	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. Indeed, time has passed, but I must thank you for your reference to the Members who are resigning, who have been the pillars of this House and who are going to lose. Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor for the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking briefly to announce that my group is of course going to support this parliamentary initiative and that we are very happy that it is on such an important issue, because it is actually a problem of democracy and not just, as may be said too easily, a humanitarian or sentimental problem, even if it is. It is clear that in the refugee crisis there is a huge emotional component and that many times what has been achieved is that virtually all the governments of Europe, including Spanish, have been the emotional reactions of public opinion, which speaks well for once about the human race and its predisposition to compassion and solidarity. The bottom line is that we are facing a democratic crisis, which is because we have encountered a problem that has overwhelmed us, because in an absolutely unforeseeable way we had not yet understood what world we live in. We live in a globalized world and the large population displacements, which have always existed - since we have history, we know they have existed - have now become something visible and scandalous. That can't be hidden under the carpet. It is a problem of democracy not because it is tremendous - it is so - not because it is terrible the suffering of so many innocent people - it is so, but simply because it shows that the costly administrative structures that we have been creating are still incapable today of ensuring the fulfilment of human rights and of ensuring that there are governments that take care of their own populations and that do not treat their citizens as enemies, as is happening in Syria, Afghanistan and so many other failed States around the world, in many cases as a result of post-colonial processes. [[Rumors]] In Spain, we had not escaped the insensitivity or denial of the democratic problem of the existence of people without rights. As I said, my group is very pleased that it has been possible to arrive at this consensus text, but we do not have much to boast about; moreover, no one in particular. It would be completely out of place if there were manifestations of moral and ideological superiority to which we are so accustomed. I would like to recall that in 2008 the government of Rodríguez Zapatero refused nothing less than 95% of asylum applications, which is truly scandalous. Last year the current government improved somewhat in this area, but not much: it refused 57 %. The consequence has been that, as with other countries of the European Union, we have been opened a procedure for possible infringement of the European agreements on political asylum. We must change all this and, although the material content of this non-law proposal is not much less finished or perfect - it will certainly never be -, it is better to take this step in the right direction - in this case I say it without any irony - than to remain in denial and in turning our backs on the uncomfortable reality of the world in which we live and which is not going to change. In addition, Spain is a country with a disastrous historical tradition in the production of refugees. We have been a country that has expelled large masses of people. In 1492 he expelled the Jews, in 1609 to the Moors and during the Civil War there were hundreds of thousands of people who moved within their own territory from one area to another and hundreds of thousands more who came out as a result of Franco's victory. Therefore, we should be a country with a special sensitivity to realize that whenever a tide of refugees is caused, what is absent is democracy, and not only democracy, but that it is absent to consider our fellow people as equals in the democratic sense of the term. [[Rumors]] Finally, since it is a strange and rare occasion to be able to talk about ethical and political generalities in a tone that is not reprehensible, I would like to say that democracy is based on a very simple idea, which is the idea of interchangeability. It is the idea that the other in the background is the same as me; even if it is not the same in talent, fortune or birth, of course it is from the point of view that it is a human being. That's where that ultimate universal ethics comes from, which is very popular and well-known, and it doesn't say anything else that you don't want to do to the other one that you don't want them to do to you. As I say, our country has produced hundreds of thousands of refugees and not only in the event of war. I would also like to take this opportunity to recall something that is not often remembered. [[Rumors]] ETA also produced tens of thousands of displaced people due to the threat of violence in very recent years and remain displaced outside the homes where they would like to live. However, the fundamental thing is that we understand this: if there are refugees, something happens in democracy, and when there are hundreds of thousands or millions of refugees, it is precisely the political structure of the world that we are building that is failing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. [[Rumors]] Please, I beg your silence. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Rumors]] If something is making clear this afternoon's debate in the House, apart from the well-known noise before the votes for the incorporation of Members who are coming to the end to discuss their affairs in the House and do not let the speakers speak, it is that there is an important will for consensus on the issue of the asylum crisis that we are experiencing in Europe by all parliamentary groups. The second issue that is making quite clear is that there are important differences in the political views of each of the parliamentary groups on the issue of immigration. We cannot hide the enormous differences that have separated many of the groups in this House from the policies that the People's Party Government has been developing under this non-legislative proposal which will unanimously approve the House and which will also count on the affirmative vote of my parliamentary group, which also signs the amendment. The differences have been important, but that should not make us forget the will... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u75	Excuse me, Mr. Sixto. Please don't listen to the speaker. Clear the corridors above all. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Sometimes with this noise it is difficult to listen to yourself to follow the speech. He said that the differences are important, let us not hide them, some speakers from the parliamentary groups have already said them. I would like to leave black and white that we would have liked to see a greater reference to the necessary opening up of humanitarian corridors throughout the European Union that do not force asylum seekers to have to run from one border to another or cross sea channels in unfortunate conditions, but open up humanitarian corridors that can lead refugees from their point of origin to the destination points at once. Open up channels of daily access, not only in the face of this crisis; open up channels for other refugees from other conflicts, not only the conflict in Syria; expand the role of the diplomatic legacies of Spain and the other countries of the European Union in third countries to facilitate asylum from the countries of origin, from the countries of intervention. These are issues that we would have liked to have been included in this statement, but it is a statement of minimums, not a statement that closes the process. Nor is it a declaration of ratification of the Government's policy. It is true that the policy of the Government has changed in this regard in recent months. A few months ago the Government and the Minister of the Interior did not even accept the minimum quota, which is also not the ideal system. On the subject of asylum, we share with the Basque Nationalist Party that it is not a question of quotas, one has to accept what has to be accepted according to the international legality and the reality of the conflicts that exist, but at least progress has been made, the Government has made progress, and not even on the merit of the People's Party and of the other groups of the House, but that - other speakers have said - thanks to the merit of Spanish society, of non-governmental organizations, which have taught us all, which have given an undoubted lesson on a solidarity response by the whole of Spanish society, which certainly does not forget that we have suffered throughout our history and recently in the last century, at the end of the civil war, the problem of asylum. We would have liked to have included other issues. In this regard, I would like to tell Esquerra Republicana that we shared a good part of the amendment he was proposing. I would also like to say to the Basque Group that we would have shared the fact that the five amendments that it has tabled could have been accepted, above all because of the issue of hot returns, on which I am not going to extend, because this is a very sensitive issue on which Parliament has recently legislated. We understand that it is often a bloody matter. That is why my group will join the consensus. As Mr Olabarría said, consensus is a higher value, and we join that consensus. Differences remain important. The issue is also not closed today. My parliamentary group is asking the Government tomorrow precisely on this issue. There are also a number of questions to the Government on this matter tomorrow, showing that the parliamentary groups and that this House are not closing the issue here today but are seeking to follow up on the government's policy on asylum seekers, political behaviour, developments and budgetary allocations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unity, Mr Picó has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start at the end of what I thought I'd say. The result of the agreement reached by all the parliamentary groups, certainly a minimum agreement, is satisfactory for the Union. We have all had to give up concrete proposals that we have made in the face of this crisis - Mrs Esteve said so - and Union has also done so, but this is the policy: to dialogue, to agree, to give up in part in order to reach agreements that give answers to realities. It was a reality that demanded, first of all, a response that should commit all administrations, the central, the autonomous communities, the local entities, each in their respective competences. Secondly, it called for a comprehensive, comprehensive response that should meet the needs of the people and families we will host; failing to do so would be irresponsible on our part. It also called for a response to a crisis situation, but sustained over time, because it will not be a timely one, and we must prepare ourselves for it, in the face of populist reactions that do not share this response. But, ladies and gentlemen, today we are only fulfilling our obligation, which is nothing other than protecting those who deserve to be protected. Ensuring international protection to those who meet the requirements for it is an obligation of international law, so we do nothing but comply with international law when we are prepared to receive all those who live in conflict zones and have lived under very harsh circumstances. Two comments. First, I would like to highlight the courage and resolution of the European Commission, especially its President, Jean Claude Juncker. The migration crisis has revealed an eternal European problem: who should have the legitimacy and sovereignty to take action in the face of Europe's joint problems. I believe that, in view of the position adopted by many Member States, initially also by the Government of the State, the answer is clear: it only had and makes sense to respond as Europe, as a whole to this situation. A second comment, which is a criticism. We have not been sufficiently aware of the situation in Syria and in the neighbouring countries of Syria. We haven't been supportive enough. Of the nearly €3 billion pledged by the international community for humanitarian aid in the Syrian conflict to Acnur, the World Food Programme, etc., only 31 per cent has been made effective. The situation has collapsed because we have not been co-responsible enough to find a solution to the conflict in Syria. In other words, we are jointly responsible for being where we are today in the face of this migration crisis. I repeat that we welcome the consensus reached on the measures to be taken as a State with regard to the humanitarian refugee crisis. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Campuzano now has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group, as it cannot be otherwise, shares the content of the text that we are going to put to the vote, as well as Mrs Esteve's passionate and well-constructed speech, with unusual arguments in the House's debate, and with which we feel very reflected. But this discussion today afternoon must introduce critical elements on the substantive issue, on how Europe has managed this crisis. Europe has arrived late and not well enough. We have seen scenes on Europe's borders that have moved us and that have embarrassed us, and we have heard European political leaders, such as Prime Minister Orbán, who did not respond to the values that constitute the essence of the European Union. And most importantly, the refugee crisis has shown that there is no real European asylum system. We knew it, the crisis has shown it, and this would force us to move forward in the near future towards a genuine common asylum policy that does not exist today. In the Spanish case, the crisis of asylum and refuge also shows the enormous structural weaknesses of our asylum system. The question is not so much, ladies and gentlemen - which is also so - the very few asylum applications coming to Spain and the very few applications for asylum which are favourably answered in Spain in relation to the rest of the European States - the figures are really scandalous - but what is really serious is the lack of defence to which those asylum seekers are subjected, who can spend months waiting to receive a reply to their request. It was published these days in the press in Barcelona, in La Vanguardia, cases of people who are four, five, six, seven, eight or nine months awaiting response and living on the street without any help; or the opacities of our refugee reception system - and I want to highlight the specific case of El Vendrell -; or, more scandalous, the situation that continues to live in the CETI of Melilla, the situation that until very little was lived on the external border of Ceuta and Melilla. We do not have a good asylum policy in Spain and this crisis must serve to respond to the European crisis and to assume our obligations as European partners, but also to address the fundamental issues, such as weaknesses, opacities or structural problems of the asylum system. Ladies and gentlemen, how the Spanish State and Europe respond to this crisis has to do with the real values on which we base our coexistence. We have the opportunity to do better, we have the obligation to do better because that will mark the moral tone of European society, the moral tone of Spanish society. In this compromise we are the Members of Democratic Convergence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the People's Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Salmones has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u82	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I am going to thank Mrs Esteve and Mr Trevín - who I do not see, but I suppose she will be here - for the good work we have done. We are starting from an initiative of yours, we have worked together, we have each contributed what we have been able to, we have reached agreement with the other groups, and I think that we have done particularly well. This afternoon we have had various farewells, that of Mrs Trinidad Jiménez and that of Mr Caldera and, in addition to what everyone has said about them, I would like to thank them for their work. To know where the rest of us will be in the next legislature. We are talking about the most serious and painful issue we have seen and have faced since World War II. The figures are creepy. We are talking about more than 250,000 dead - I am referring only to the Syrian issue - more than 10 million internally displaced persons, 4 million refugees in very generous country camps, such as Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and Iraq. It is a situation - it has been said here - in which there are more than 80,000 children, many of them alone, most of whom have been out of school for years, who have fled from war, from extermination, and who wander - now comes a winter that will be especially hard - on trips of more than two years. I am pleased that the groups have reached an agreement. I do not want to say the word satisfaction, because this word does not fit when we are talking about this issue, but we do have to make a recognition, and it is very valuable that we send to a society that has proved to be very supportive of the message of taking this out of political penance; it would be obscene to do so in another way. I am going to give you a little proof, now personal, that I want to get you out of the political impasse, which is to accept the criticisms and not answer them. Welcome, we will study them but, in fact, I will not take this turn to answer them. As many things have already been said here, and Mrs Esteve has explained the ten points, I think very well, I will make some clarifications. The first is an allusion which seems to me to be extraordinarily important to the root of this issue. The root takes more than five years, when the Syrian regime begins to exterminate its people; it kills them, bombards them and exterminates them. The root is where Daesh comes from, and they flee because they are slaughtering their neighbors, and the root of what is happening now is also where the fields of the countries that have welcomed them are overflowing. We must meditate on whether we have acted well at the root, as the President of the Government repeats without ceasing. In any case, they are lessons learned but, at least, let us behave well with the victims of this tragedy. Another point made by Mr Picó - and I agree - is that asylum is not just a question of generosity and solidarity; it is a right. For them it is a right and for us a duty, and this is especially important. Anyone who has the right to asylum will be given. With this I enter into another precision that seems to me also important. I think there is a confusion in this question of quotas. Quotas are an emergency procedure launched by the European Union. We, of course, are going to assume our quotas, and we will do so in the most effective and responsible way possible. But right here the Minister of the Interior said that, in addition to quotas, we will welcome all those who ask for our asylum doors, and we will arrive, possibly next year, not at the quota that the European Union has set for us and that we accept with enormous responsibility, but almost 35,000 asylum seekers who will come not for the quota, but for the ordinary procedure by which this year, for example, we have already received 7,000 people. If I have made these clarifications because they seem important to me, I also want to say - remembering what Mrs Báñez said - that we must act by distinguishing at this moment the urgent, which is the reception, and let us work from now on on the important, and the important - I will use the words used by the Pope in the United Nations - are the three teas: land, roof and work. Let us act now with urgency, now, with the European Union. It has been said here that the European Union has worked badly, but in a month's time, the European Union will have set up magnificent structures - surely - a precise system. This has overflowed the forecasts. I would like to add another question, the funds; there will be those that are needed; absolutely, there will be those that are needed, and that is our commitment. As I said before, we will have 18,000 people in this so-called quota, but we will reach much more; possibly, the minister said, 35,000 refugees. In the European Union we are working on this common asylum policy, and I hope we will be able to be in a huge hurry and to have it in the coming months. I also want to make a recognition here...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u83	Mrs. Rodriguez-Salmones, you have to finish, because you've exceeded your time a lot.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u84	I'm done right now, Mr. President. As I said, I want to acknowledge social organizations, without which we could not be doing all this: Acnur, CEAR, Red Cross, Caritas, etc. I would simply like to assure you that the mechanism put in place by the Vice-President of the Government with eight ministries will make our entire autonomous, local and social system work for this. Before I finish, President, I would like to add to what Mrs Oramas has said about the children's drama. 85% of the children are...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u85	Mrs. Rodriguez-Salmones, you have to finish. You can't add to anything.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u86	I'm done right now. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to thank you for the consensus with which we are voting on this proposal today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs Rodriguez-Salmones. An amendment has been tabled by all groups, which I believe will be the one that we are voting on. Is that so, Mrs. Esteve? [[Consent]] In two minutes we shall proceed to the vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u88	We shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. Substitution of dona María Luisa Carcedo. I ask Don Adrián Barbón Rodríguez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u89	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u90	Don Adrián Barbón has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u91	It takes into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on universalization of the right to public health care. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 307 plus 2 telematics votes, 309; in favour, 141 plus 1 telematics vote, 142; against, 166 plus 1 telematics vote, 167.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u92	It's rejected. - OF THE CATALAN GROUP OF CONVERGENCE I OF UNION, AMENDMENT OF LAW 22/2003 OF 9 JULY, COMPETITION, INCLUDING A SPECIAL COMPETITION PROCEDURE FOR PHYSICAL PERSONS, IN THEIR FAMILY ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES OR, AS AUTONOMOUS WORKERS, IN THEIR PROFESSIONAL OR ENTERPRISE ACTIVITIES. [[File number 122/00194]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u93	It takes into consideration the proposal for a law of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d ́Unió amending Law 22/2003 of 9 July, Competition, which incorporates a special competition procedure for natural persons, in their family economic activities or as self-employed workers, in their professional or business activities. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 plus 2 telematics votes, 307; 129 plus 1 telematics vote, 130; 172 plus 1 telematics vote, 173; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u94	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u95	No bill from the People's Group in Congress on compliance with UN Security Council Resolution 1325. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Plural Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 301 votes in favour 300 against 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u96	It's approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS OF REFUGEES. [[File number 162/001298]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u97	No bill by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the humanitarian refugee crisis. There is an amendment tabled jointly by all groups, which is the amendment put to the vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes cast; 307 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-29-CD150929.u98	It was adopted unanimously. The meeting was suspended. It was eight o'clock at night. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions number 306, corresponding to the plenary session number 286, held on Wednesday 16 September 2015, on page 5, on the thirteenth line, where it says 'Fernando Vera' should say 'Hernando Vera'.
