ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u1	The meeting was resumed. The plenary session scheduled for today included in the debate the adoption of amendments by the Senate that are organic in nature. I would therefore like to inform you that the votes will not take place before five o'clock in the afternoon. Let us begin with the questions addressed to the Government. Firstly, questions to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency. He asked, first of all, Mr Joan Coscubiela of La Izquierda Plural.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Vice-President, for four years your Government has used the crisis opportunistically to impose policies that have led to a sharp increase in social inequalities and an increase in poverty. Do you consider that wearing silk on your policies improves people's lives?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u3	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Coscubiela, people's lives do not improve by what is said, by what is promised but much less by what is criticized, which is what you usually do in this House exclusively. The lives of citizens improve when recovery policies such as those that this Government has been carrying out, when the economy is able to grow again, when it is able to create jobs again and when citizens hope to return to a quality of life as they had before. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u5	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u6	Madam Vice-President, not even with all the weapons of media intoxication at your service will you be able to hide the antisocial, authoritarian and centralist character of your policies. Even if they call it external mobility, what they have caused is a labour exile for young people. Even if they call it recovery, their recovery hides more precariousness and an insolidary distribution of employment, which especially punishes women. Although they call it internal depreciation, what they have forced is a reduction in wages - especially the lowest - to increase the profits of capital. Even if they call it a second chance, they have left their families to protect the mortgage market. Even if they call it electricity reform, what they have done is increase tariffs, penalize self-consumption and punish renewable energies. Even if they call it extraordinary regularization, what they have done is pass a tax amnesty to protect their fraudsters and their tax offenders. Even if you continue to call it transparency, what you have done is to protect corruption and its corrupt throughout the legislature. Although they call it rationalization of public administrations, what they have done is to promote the privatization of basic public sectors and centralize the State. Although they call it citizen security, their law seeks to gag citizens and their social organizations to silence them. Even if you call it transparency, throughout this legislature what you have done is to endorse and protect corruption and its corrupt. Even if you call it constitutional patriotism, what you have done is subject this country to the dictate of capital markets at a cost from which we will take many years to recover. Although it is called democracy, it will not be real and full democracy until Catalonian citizens can freely decide our future in a referendum. For fear, because of the much poisoning you practice, you will not prevent the citizens of this country from continuing to fight for their rights and freedoms and will soon demonstrate it in the ballot box, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u7	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although you repeat your speech in all the control sessions, this country is much better than when it ruled the party you supported, which was the Socialist Party, Mr Coscubiela. [[Applauds]] Even if you make all the repetitions you want and even if you want to make this House a Roman circus, which is not, at least as long as this group is still sitting here, Mr Coscubiela, beware of your gestures! [[Rumors]] Mr Coscubiela cannot come to this House to criticize one thing and the other. Look, you supported a government that led the country into recession and today criticizes a government that puts it in economic growth. You were much less critical when unemployment grew by 12% than when employment grew at a rate of 3%. And you were not heard so many repetitions when pensions were frozen in this country and are now paid and updated, Mr Coscubiela. You criticize everything, one thing and the opposite, but there is something in you that is of note, which shows that in that you ask, communication, and that calls intoxication we have achieved something. The other day you were criticizing the tax cuts and saying that they should not be lowered because there was still much left in this country for the budgetary balance. Mr Coscubiela, if you defend the balance of public accounts, it is that in this government policy of intoxication and communication we will have done something right. Finally, I would like to remind you that you are here in opposition, but you are beginning to be a government in some places and precisely because of your policy of communication and intoxication and because of your policy of worsening the standard of living of citizens, the municipalities where you govern are already becoming known. Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u9	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO HERNANDO VERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY: DOES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDEREDLY EXERCISED THE OPERATIONS OF THE MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY? [[File number 180/001379]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u10	Question also to the Vice-President of the Socialist Group, Mr Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u11	Madam Vice-President, how do you appreciate the exercise of your responsibilities in the preparation, development and follow-up of the Government's legislative programme and the Government's relations with the General Courts?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u12	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. This Government, the Ministry of the Presidency and all departments carry out their functions. That's right, we don't feel satisfied. We will not be satisfied until we manage to get all those Spaniards out of the crisis who lost their jobs when the Socialist Party ruled, until we give employment to 3.5 million Spaniards and when we can improve the quality of life of all of them. That is what this Government and the Ministry of the Presidency are working for, and they are trying to carry out what has been done, a recovery programme for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u14	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u15	Ms. Sáenz de Santamaría, the Government has used its absolute majority to pass seventy-two decree-laws. It is the government of democracy that has used this figure the most. How is it justified that you have used it in four consecutive years for the extraordinary credits of the special arms programme when they are expirys that have been known since the time of Mr Aznar? It has no justification, except to square Mr. Montoro's accounts or be a solemn cobbler, more of a bad law student than a state lawyer. If instead of using your superpowers for frivolities like reading on your lips, you would have used them to do your job seriously today we wouldn't find ourselves with forty laws to deal with in two months, because that's not working until the last day, that's the rooster of the vague. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] The losers of this crisis are the unemployed, the dispossessed, the students without scholarship, but also the legislative procedure in this House, which you have used and trampled to your liking. They have modified whole projects through the amendments of their group to skip the preceptive reports; they have reformed dozens of laws through additional provisions of legal texts that had nothing to do with what was being reformed; they have despised the Congress of Deputies. What is happening in Greece does not embarrass you that Mr Rajoy has not appeared in this House since last April 15th to talk about it and that he will not do so until next week? [[Applauds]] But worst of all, you finish the legislature as you started it, Mrs. Saenz of Santamaría. They started by delaying General State Budgets for the Andalusian elections and ended up advancing budgets for the general elections. That delay damaged Spain and did not serve its electoral purposes and the budgetary advance will not serve Mr Rajoy's campaign because at this point everyone knows that the promises of the President of the Government are worthless, and that the budgetary advance will harm you, because you have decided to put the interests of your party, the People's Party, above the interests of Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. What a mess, Mr. Hernando! What a mess you have when talking about the General Budgets of the State, putting it in front of this government, when in 2011 they advanced elections on the verge of a rescue in order not to present General Budgets of the State! [[Rumors]] [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]] Mr Hernando, yours is the complete political amnesia because I remind you that, as a result of that measure, this Government, the first thing it had to do, three days after taking possession, was to pass a decree-law in order to be able to pay the pensions and the rest of the public payments to the Spanish citizens, whom you left on the verge of a rescue. [[Rumors]] Mr Hernando, this government is going to have to approve five General State Budgets; that is seriousness and responsibility. What hurts you is that the responsibility of this government demonstrates the irresponsibility of the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, which you are recovering. [[Protests]] And if you want us to talk about the laws that we have brought to this House, about the many that we have done, I tell you why: because we had to present our reforms and those that you did not; and the results are so. We do not leave a country on the verge of rescue, we collect the bartuli and we go to the opposition; we take it out of it and Spain is as it is today. We have led Spain to economic growth and job creation, bringing out of unemployment the Spaniards you left there. [[Protests]] Today Spain is the fastest growing country in the European Union, thanks to the reforms carried out by this government, which has managed to maintain well-being with a great deal of effort and sacrifice from many Spaniards but also with the hard work of this House. I do not think, Mr Hernando, that the Members of my bench, of that bench and of this bench care to work very hard when it comes to seeking a job for the Spaniards. You complain that you have to work; welcome, because you have a job. This Government is working to ensure that the rest of the Spanish also have it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u18	Thank you, Madam Vice President. - THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONI PICÓ I AZANZA, IN THE REPRESENTATION OF MARIA CONCEPTION TARRUELLAS TOMÁS, OF THE CATEGORY OF CONVERGENCE AND UNION PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT the appropriate measures have been taken to combat the other elements of social vulnerability, inequality and poverty? [[File number 180/001389]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u19	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. He asked, first of all, Mr Antoni Picó, from the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, does the Government consider that appropriate measures have been taken to combat the high rates of social vulnerability, inequality and poverty?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u21	Thank you, Mr. Picó. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u22	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Your Honor. Indeed, the Government, from the first minute on, decided that, in order to combat inequality and poverty rates, which had suffered the greatest increase in the European Union between 2008 and 2011, as a result of the economic crisis, the most important thing was to start a process of reforms to return Spain to growth and job creation, because that was what had punished the lowest incomes, lower-level occupations and the most vulnerable segments of society more particularly. And secondly, that it had to carry out this policy of reform and economic revival by guaranteeing the great public services, the great social benefits of the State. That is the effort that has been made and that is what has led us to this moment, in which we can see the future in a very different way. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the data is indecent. Intermón Oxfam has assured that Spain is the second most unequal country in Europe, only behind Latvia. Or Save the Children, last week, told us that more than one in three children in Spain are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Or the survey of living conditions, also published last month by the INE, ensures that 65% of households declare that they have some difficulty reaching the end of the month; of these, single parents and large families are those who have the greatest risk of poverty. In the light of this data, the Government approves plans for social inclusion of families containing previously approved measures without increases in budget allocations; or reduces or eliminates transfers to autonomous communities for social services: dependency, support for disability. No measures are taken to alleviate energy poverty and are opposed to others taking it. Like the hortelan dog, minister, neither eat nor let eat. Or taxes such as VAT, which is the most regressive tax, are generally increased. And tax reform, Minister, has been a missed opportunity to improve tax treatment for low- and middle-income families with dependent children. And so long and so forth. Minister, in times of economic boom, poverty data, especially for children, were above the European average. The problem existed and has become acute. Many European countries have suffered the crisis, but their poverty data have not increased as in Spain, and this is because they have policies to support the family, policies of social justice and equity and powerful social aid, precisely what we do not have. I'll make you a proposal, Minister. Unió Democrática proposes to create a fund to combat poverty and social exclusion with income from extemporary self-liquidations collected by the Tax Agency. Disperse it among the autonomous communities; talk to Mr Montoro. Do you know how high this fund can be, with 2014 data? More than EUR 1.3 billion, and you spent a specific item on child poverty in the budgets of EUR 32 million. Do so now, Minister, EUR 1.3 billion. The data on poverty, social exclusion and inequality are, as I say, indecent. Either forceful measures are taken and as soon as possible or... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u25	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, EUR 184 billion, these are the liquidity mechanisms that the Ministry of Finance has transferred to the autonomous communities, particularly to your own, the community from which you come. For what? To maintain in the Generalitat the social services, health, education, social benefits that run by the autonomous communities. That is what has also maintained the welfare policy that is being done from the autonomous point of view in Spain, and that was the responsibility of the Government, as it cannot be otherwise. It is too late to ask me to set up a fund to combat poverty because this Government has already created it and has been providing it, as well as transferring it to the autonomous communities. Since you talk about family, think about what are the major social protection networks in Spain. First, of course, public administrations, which, with pensions, unemployment benefits, subsidies, large public services offered free of charge to citizens, play this role of solidarity and protection. Then there are also the Spanish families. We have approved a Family Plan and are supporting them with tax reform. Finally, there is the third sector of action, which you want to destroy at national level. You want to avoid that you can have assistance, that you can receive benefits in order to be able to carry out your work of solidarity among Spaniards, live in the community in which you live, through the subsidies of 0.7%, through a vigorous third sector that so well protects, protects and combats the situation of poverty. Spain has made the reforms it had to make. We already know what happens when no reforms are made. This country has done so, and that is why it has the right to win the future. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANGELS ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ACCEPT THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE UNITED NATIONS WORKING GROUP ON THE QUESTION OF DISCRIMINATION AGAINST WOMEN IN LEGISLATION AND PRACTICE? [[File number 180/001388]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u28	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality by Mrs Ángeles Álvarez of the Socialist Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: We have just heard a report from the UN working group which recommends correcting situations created by your Government that put the rights of Spanish women at risk. Do you intend to take care of them or will you continue to deepen the harassment of women's rights?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u29	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, the United Nations working group on the issue of discrimination against women in legislation and in practice shares with this Government the same objective of improving real equality between women and men. From your report, if you read it carefully - or if you read it briefly - it is also highlighted that there have been very important advances in Spain over the last few years, progress that are reference and model for other countries in the world, among which are the laws that we have agreed and approved together in the House. They are pleased with the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities, the plans that we plan to adopt at this last stage of the Government against the pay gap, and also highlight the strategy on violence against women or the National Plan against Social Exclusion. They welcome - see - the extension of free justice to victims of ill-treatment regardless of resources or, for example, since 2013, the publication of statistical data on children in this area. They also highlight our programmes to support and protect women in vulnerable situations. It is true that they draw attention to the crisis and the destruction of jobs that began in Spain in 2008, which has had serious consequences for women. This is the level on which the Government has worked most, it is the Government's high priority. Employment, together with co-responsibility, reconciliation and the eradication of gender-based violence, is part of a comprehensive strategy for the protection and protection of women's rights that has enabled us to make progress in recent years. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Alvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Mr Minister, the report literally points out impressive efforts and progress by Spain precisely during the socialist governments; the problem is the manifest concern about the risks that these achievements face with the measures of your government. This report describes the elimination of Education for Citizenship as a step backwards and recommends that it be reintroduced as a compulsory subject. The UN urges them - and I open quotes - to suspend all attempts to restrict the current safe and legal access to abortion - I close quotes -. But it also warns them about the fearlessness of a reform that will put hundreds of young Spanish women with unwanted pregnancies who, for example, are victims of domestic violence. One of the things the report does is to affix its insensitivity in the González case, too, alerts to the lack of protection given in this country to the children of violent parents and you are systematically voting against every socialist proposal to strengthen the protection of minors. This report also says that the excessive burden on Spanish women to care for dependents is the fault of their cuts in social protection and that this is driving women out of the labour market. The report considers that its reform of the Women's Institute further weakens the goal of eliminating discrimination and is also alerting us - and I repeat to open quotes - because the situation of victim protection services is deteriorating throughout the country. I recommend you read the small letter because what you're really talking about is the communities you've been ruling so far. You cannot set a positive profile on equality because your Government's policies have been a permanent attack on women's freedom in this country by land, sea and air. The question now would be whether you will respond to the twenty-nine recommendations of the United Nations or continue to harass women. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. We have responded to each of the recommendations, which we appreciate because we like to work with international agencies. On other issues, I will also say that the laws that are made in Spain are decided by this Parliament, as it could not be otherwise because it has to be. But since you are talking to me about the children of violent parents and today are going to pass the laws on child protection - which I understand is a great step forward, an important step forward that you will recognise - has not this government allowed judges to put in place guarantees on parental authority, custody and the visiting regime? Or has it not been an amendment by the People's Party that makes the person who kills a family member not be able to collect the pension and, therefore, the murderer of a woman not be able to collect the widow's pension? [[Applauds]] That amendment was not introduced with his Government. So, we're moving forward... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u34	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION: HOW DOES THE WORDS OF THE PROTOCOL TO AMEND THE CONVENTION WITH THE UNITED STATES AFFECTING THE BASIS OF DEATH BENEFIT BENEFIT TO OUR COUNTRY? [[File number 180/001380]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u35	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation by Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how does it benefit our country to sign the protocol to amend the Convention with the United States on the basis of Moron?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, I do not wish to make any headway because next week I have an appearance to discuss this issue in detail, but to a direct question, a direct answer. We can talk about three benefits. Firstly, it adds value to the security of Spain, to the security of Europe and to the security of the allies. Secondly, it reinforces the two anchors on which Spanish foreign policy is based: our leading role in Europe and the link with the United States. Thirdly, it brings concrete benefits to the area because the agreement signed by Defense represents the investment of $29 million that will undoubtedly have an impact on job creation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u39	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u40	Minister, a few days ago this protocol was signed with the United States; an agreement that will mean an increase in the number of troops and also of American air assets at the base of Moron. It is essential for international security that Morón be a basis to help curb the advance of jihadism in North Africa, and it is good for Spain. But in this context there is one issue that worries us and it is the Spanish workers at the base. The agreement before the amendment established the existence of 75 American civilians and up to 75 other Spanish civilians hired directly by the Ministry of Defence; today there are none. From Rota the workers of Morón in commission of service, the rest depend on a contract, a contract that has carried out three EREs, two of them in the last twenty-four months, 240 workers on the street in a region especially hit by unemployment. This is a matter of concern to the mayors of the area, to the board of Andalusia, to the company committee and also to my parliamentary group, which therefore affects this issue, because an increase in the number of American soldiers cannot lead to an increase in unemployment, an increase in precariousness and to the replacement of Spanish workers by American soldiers. It is true that in the last few weeks you have transferred assurances to us in various ways, but we want a compromise here today in Parliament, and in that context we ask you whether the Government has provided in the agreement with the United States that for every American civilian there is a Spanish worker hired directly by the Ministry of Defence. We ask them whether they are going to require support services to be provided by workers and non-soldiers; whether they are going to be mediated by the government to avoid new EREs, and whether they will be monitored that the EUR 29 million in base infrastructure represents contracts for Spanish, because it seems obvious but I want to insist: this is going to be a Spanish base. In short, Minister, can the government guarantee that this agreement will involve, first of all, the maintenance and then the increase in employment for workers in the area? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u42	The specific questions you raise will be answered the following week, but I would suggest that you address the Department of Defense. In any case, I repeat that there is going to be an investment of $29 million that necessarily has to entail an increase in employment. But the issue is very important from the point of view of security. Look, in an ancient dilemma between an Atlantic Europe or a Europe with its back on the United States, this government wants a strong Europe with a strong alliance with the United States. Secondly, the most important bilateral security relationship we have is that we have with the United States, so that relationship has always been a State policy. The Convention for Defence Cooperation was signed at the time of Felipe González with the votes of this parliamentary group. The two amendments, that of 2002 at the time of Aznar and that of 2012 at the time of Rajoy, were adopted by this Government with the votes of that parliamentary group. And here what has happened is an increase in the threat on our southern border. It began with an attack on the Benghazi consulate that cost the ambassador his life; the United States asked us for a temporary deployment of force in Moron, we agreed; they asked for an extension, we agreed; they asked for a second extension and we re-accessed. Thanks to the good relations and the policy of this government, what was temporary is going to be permanent; instead of establishing this base in a friendly but not Spanish country, it is established in Spain, which gives Spain greater prominence in defence in Europe, in the European Union, and greater prominence in the alliance with our allies. Power, we can turn our backs on our alliances, but duty, we must keep them. You will know if we can or should. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u43	Thank you, Minister. - OF MR ISABEL RODRIGUEZ GARCIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT THE APPROVAL OF THE PERMANENT REVISABLE PRISON PENA AGAINST THE REST OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS IS PURPOSE? [[File number 180/001381]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u44	Question to the Minister for Justice. Mrs Isabel Rodríguez of the Socialist Group asks.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, last week, Members of all parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Group of the European People's Party, we recorded this appeal before the Constitutional Court against the life imprisonment you have imposed on us. Do you not think that these kinds of reforms against the political majority of this Parliament are unworkable? Are you able to explain to us why you do it? If it is true that our country has the lowest crime rates in our environment, if it is true that crime has been falling day by day in our country, if it is true that we are one of the countries of the European Union with the most imprisoned population, with the most population in prisons, if it is true that we are one of the countries of the European Union with the highest penalties and the most comprehensive enforcement, what is the reason for this reform? Why have they brought us back a century into our criminal law? And why did they do it against everyone? Do you really think this is going to be viable in the future? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, allow me to begin with a concept that you have handled from the political majority. I believe that it is the majority that voted by an absolute majority for the adoption of the Penal Code and therefore also for the approval of the permanent prison that can be reviewed. I see that your concept of majority has very relative democratic support, which interests you. The majority of Congress and the Senate have passed a law on an organic basis and we therefore have a fully democratic reform. [[Applauds]] There are two hundred and fifty articles devoted to better protecting women victims of gender-based violence, minors, minorities and you, however, have only caused one of the issues, paradoxically which you did not want or talk about, because the permanent reviewable prison had to be abolished; you have not given the opportunity to discuss or negotiate on the duration of the review times, the conditions and the type of crimes. Paradoxically, an institution that exists throughout the democratic Europe, in all democratic societies consolidated centuries ago in Europe, in Spain cannot be constitutional. We have done a rigorous and orthodox processing of the project, it has all the reports it has to have and everyone agrees that it is fully constitutional. I therefore believe that it is you who should review what this frenzy is about against the permanent prison that can be reviewed as a criminal policy technique that exists throughout Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u48	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u49	Minister, you're frantic against all of us. I respect your absolute majority, but you have made an abuse of your majority which results in a rejection of a social and political majority. [[Applauds]] Legal arguments? He has them in the appeal and I encourage him to read them, but I can state to him some: it is an inhuman penalty; it is a penalty that clearly violates the principles of proportionality and guilt that also leads us to violate the right to liberty; it is a penalty contrary to the principle of criminal legality because it is an indefinite penalty; it is a penalty that breaks the clear mandate of our Constitution of resocialization because it practically prevents the reintegration of prisoners. We do not understand, Minister, your efforts to go against all and to maintain this reform against all. This life sentence will not be life imprisonment, for fortunately his Government is not life imprisonment. Were they ever believed not only absolute, but also perpetual? Fortunately, it will not be perpetual and it will be reviewable, but not to justify its constitutionality. It will not be reviewable by the courts within twenty-five years, but will be reviewable by a social majority that will turn its back on them in the upcoming general elections and will be reviewable by a new government that will change and repeal this law with the support of a social and political majority in this House. It will be. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I question those concepts of social majority. I understand very well the majorities, representative democracy, which is the one that strengthens our Constitution. [[Applauds]] I have heard of the social majority, but to people who are not represented in this House at the moment. I am concerned that the Socialist Party is increasingly adapting to this kind of language by trying to find its space in Spanish society. [[Applauds]] The honourable Member, the social majority, 70% of the citizens who, according to the surveys, which we have not done, but the media, support the permanent prison that can be reviewed. And you know who I'm especially interested in listening to? Victims'associations, associations that have suffered especially from crime, terrorism and that have been grateful to the Government and this parliamentary group for approving the permanent prison that can be reviewed. More than two thousand amendments have been tabled to the Criminal Code and we have accepted more than four hundred. If that's not a participatory system, you'll tell me! The International Criminal Court and the European Court of Human Rights have stated that it is not an inhumane penalty and is not contrary to treaties. It is therefore very good that they claim that in their appeal, but they should look at the international doctrine to know that it is not true what they are saying. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u52	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON RAFAEL CALDUCH CERVERA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS UNION AND DEMOCRACY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO RECOVER THE CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MUTUALIST REGIME OF OFFICERS TO IMPROVE THEIR FUTURE SUSTAINABLENESS? [[File number 180/001377]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u53	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. First of all, I would like to ask the honourable Member, Mr Rafael Calduch, of the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u54	Minister, does the government intend to recover contributions to the civil servants' mutualist regime in order to improve their sustainability?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u55	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u56	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, Mr Muface, the General Mutual Civil Servants of the State is currently in a healthy economic situation and does not present any problems of lack of liquidity or treasury. In fact, it pays promptly to its suppliers within 30 days, in particular to the medical entities concluded and to the official pharmacy schools of Spain with which it has signed the corresponding agreements. Muface is a solvent and sustainable system that, as all officials know, is fully guaranteed by the State. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u57	Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u58	Minister, in a recent survey of 26,000 mutualists - I refer you to the fact that the usual surveys to survey the results of the elections are carried out around 2,000 or 2,500 respondents - 96% believed that the mutualist regime can disappear and 89% believed that the state's financial contribution is insufficient. In a group of officials of more than 1,500,000 who are in the various mutual societies, of which almost one million are from Muface, there is a clear feeling that the mutualist regime is being undermined directly by the Government. By the way, there are also reports from the opposition, from the Alternatives Foundation, that talk about the need to end the mutualist regime. He's being undermined for two basic reasons. First of all, because of the fall of filiation due to the non-replenishment rate; you call it the replacement rate, but it is non-replenishment rate. Secondly, because of the shortage of contributions from the Treasury. Between 2010 and 2015 the accumulated contributions of Finance to the mutualist regime as a whole has been 52 million, a ridicule. You know why? Because they have exhausted the remaining treasury, since during the period 2009-2015 they have used 1,052 million euros of the remaining treasury that had the mutuals. Of course it's been sustainable so far! The question is whether it will be sustainable in the future. A wonderful opportunity arises for you to start not to resort to the treasury box - since it is exhausted - but to put into the next budgets that we are going to discuss and approve the amounts that are needed for mutual funding to be recovered. You said last week that officials had to be dignified because they had made a solidarity effort. This is the time to do so and I invite you, Minister, to make a public commitment here to increase contributions, because so far they have been sustained through benefit cuts and the cash accumulated in previous years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, of course I am committed, as has already happened in this year 2015, where the state's contribution to Muface has already increased. It is an increase of 1.58 % that goes directly to the improvement of medical and pharmaceutical assistance of the million and a half people who benefit from the protection of Muface; in fact, more than 83 % of its budget is allocated to these items. Specifically, the money spent on pharmaceuticals is increasing by almost 6%, while the money spent on medical care with private entities, which is what I said, 81% of civil servants, rises by 0.9 % compared to 2014. I'm talking about the 2015 budget. In addition, private health insurance entities concluded with Muface have expanded their health offer catalogue to provide comprehensive care to all mutualists and beneficiaries who have chosen to receive assistance through these entities. State officials can be fully assured that Muface's present and future, health benefits and funding are legal and fully guaranteed by the State. The evolution of the budget and the increase in the contributions of the State in these two years are clear proof and the General Budgets of the State being drawn up by the Government will confirm this clear commitment to Muface's security and reliability. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO DEPUTY, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE IN MIND THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE FOR 2016? [[File number 180/001382]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u62	Question also addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Mr Pedro Saura, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what is the government's intention with regard to the budgets, is it going to push them forward? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Saura, the intention of the Government is to draw up the general budgets of the State, as is its obligation, and it does so from the conviction that it is best for the Spaniards, it is what guarantees the continuity of economic recovery and job creation for next year. When we draw up and present these budgets to the House, we do nothing but fulfil our most basic obligation. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u66	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, to be clear, Zapatero avoided a rescue in which you are committed. [[Rumors]] You wanted Spain to be Greece, Mr Montoro. [[Rumors]] That's what I wanted. And Mr Zapatero and the other groups in the House avoided a rescue. Spain was rescued with Rajoy. [[Rumors]] And for delaying the 2012 budget, for election reasons, a ransom, Mr. Montoro... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u68	I'm sorry, Mr. Saura. I beg you to be silent to hear Mr. Saura. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. A ransom that cost us 60 billion euros. Let me be clear, Mr Montoro, you committed yourself to a rescue, you wanted Spain to be Greece. When there was rescue it went with Rajoy and cost us 60 billion euros. You are going to bring the 2016 budgets not as a finance minister, but as an advisor and a member of the People's Party election committee, because you, Mr Montoro, think you can buy the will of the Spaniards. You think promising money will buy votes. That's what you think. They don't understand anything, Mr. Montoro. [[Rumors]] The Socialist Group is going to oppose by land, sea and air these budgets and this concerned handling of the budgets by the People's Party. And I'll tell you more, Mr. Montoro. I see the yellow book of 2016 budgets: 2016 budgets, Montoro S.L. That's the budget for 2016, promising money in exchange for votes. That's what Mr. Montoro wants to do. But the Spaniards know perfectly well that their promises are carried by the wind and the dignity of the Spaniards is very high, Mr Montoro. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u70	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. The dignity not only of the Spaniards, the intellectual capacity of the Spaniards is indeed very high. That is exactly what his lordship reduces with language, that so scientific language that goes on in the debate of the economic policy of the budgets. [[Applauds]] Mr. Saura, you do a whole collection of disqualifications, now you sip, but that is the language of the General Budgets of the State. What has happened in this country is known to all Spaniards, of course to all Spaniards. Here there was a government that denied the economic crisis that came upon us and from that denial practiced the economic and budgetary policy that fueled that economic crisis. At the end of his previous term, he threw the towel, called general elections four months in advance, not to make the general budgets for 2012. Here there was a government that renounced its responsibility - the government of President Zapatero, of which you were a part and which was supported by Mr Sánchez, sitting here - with those 2010 measures, which they did was to bring more unemployment to Spain, destroy hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and destroy the confidence in Spain of our European partners and international investors. That is your balance sheet in that legislature, and now you want to get back that legislature by saying how well Mr Zapatero did, who came out - if I may say so - by foot through that door so as not to make the state budgets. Now there will be a government in Spain that will bring a budget for the Spaniards, to ensure that, regardless of who the next government of Spain is, an economic policy that promotes economic growth and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u72	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED SUSANA SUMELZO JORDÁN, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO RETURN TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES THE RIGHTS THAT HAVE ASKED YOU IN THIS LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/001383]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u73	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration by Mrs Susana Sumelzo of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, do your Government intend to return to the public employees the rights that you have taken away from them during this legislature?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Sumelzo. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Public officials have had exemplary behaviour in this legislature. It has been a very difficult legislature, where the Government has asked for an effort, a sacrifice and, now, we are already in a position - since it is already improving the economic evolution of Spain and also the budgetary conditions - to return all citizens, and also all public officials, that effort and that sacrifice of these years. That is why I am talking in this House not only about recovering the past, but also about deigning the Public Service, clearly betting on the recognition of what that public service means, which, of course, must also have a better economic reward and must be consistent, in terms of the quality of the service provided by these officials, with the improvement of public services for all Spaniards. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u77	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Sumelzo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, we came to believe that you had proposed an amendment, but the truth is that you are still exactly the same. In this legislature we have witnessed the biggest attack on the rights of public employees of all democracy, and they know it very well. You guys swerved at them the extra pay, froze them the pay, increased their day and reduced their training. They have taken away health benefits; they have eliminated permits; they have limited their professional career. No more damage can be done in less time, Mr. Montoro. And they don't comply with that, they've been discredited. Do you know why you don't have any credit to beat me up? Because you didn't immediately cease the Secretary of State when he called them vague. Mr Montoro, to insinuate - as you have done here today - that with an election in sight they are going to return to the public employees a part, of course quite less of the rights that have been taken away from them, is to disrespect the intelligence of many millions of people, and at this point no longer hangs, Minister. You have harmed - not in a short time, but in a long time - the public services of this country and those who provide them. Four thousand essential service jobs have been destroyed each month. Quite a record, Mr. Montoro. Today we have fewer doctors, less teachers, fewer officials to control tax and labour fraud, and only one out of every fifteen casualties has been recovered. Minister, the public employees of this country only expect three things from your Government; one, to apologize for the rights that have been taken away from them and for the insults that have been given to them; two, to stop mocking them with false electoral claims; and, three, to abandon the Government. This will mean that public services in Spain will be re-functioning properly and will be re-treated as the public employees who provide them deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Sumelzo. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. This Government did not lower the salary of civil servants, as did the previous Government. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] That is to lower and lose base, quality and condition of life. This government has already returned 25% of the pay this year. [[Rumors]] Hasn't this government returned it? [[Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan makes negative signs]] This is sensational. To you you have returned the payment; what happens is that you must have such substantial remuneration that you have not even realized it, Your Honor. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] It has not really been realized that 25% of the pay has been paid back. Tell me that at this point! They have also been returned two of the days of free will that were withdrawn from them and the Government's purpose is, in accordance with the decisions taken earlier this year, to continue along this path as budgetary conditions permit and to do so, in addition, within the Public Service table, where we will discuss with trade union representatives how the working conditions of civil servants and their salaries should evolve so that in the coming years they can participate directly in what has been their contribution to the improvement of public services in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, you, the Socialist Party, which are falling into the hands of the radical left, are precisely a lack of guarantee that it can prosper... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u81	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE MINISTER OF HIS MANAGEMENT DO TO THE FRONT OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR? [[File number 180/001376]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u82	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Firstly, he asked Mr Jon Iñarritu of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. What assessment does the minister make of his management at the head of his ministry?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u84	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think it corresponds to me to evaluate my management. In any case, I appeared on 31 January 2012 before the Internal Committee of this House, setting out the fundamental commitments and objectives of my management while at the head of the ministry and the figures and facts support those commitments, insofar as the fundamental objective was to contribute to making Spain an increasingly secure country and ensuring more and better the fundamental rights and public freedoms that the Constitution recognizes to our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u87	Minister, I will not ask you about the Basque case, since we have done so before and we have seen that it is useless, apart from the fact that we believe that in this case you will be good to Major Oreja, but I will ask you about immigration policies, a case in which you have prioritized a police response to a humanitarian issue. Minister, to God praying and with the deck giving. You will be remembered for being the minister of Tarajal, where fifteen people died in a rain of rubber balls and shots. Then he came here, didn't tell the whole truth - gave several versions that were denied - and not a single resignation, neither for deaths nor for lies. As far as the Melilla fence is concerned, some of the same thing: police brutality and hot evictions, without respecting the right of asylum. This has been recalled by several international organizations. And if that were not enough, dangerous messages of so-called effects, invasions, assaults, stigmatizing potential asylum seekers, messages of the extreme right, have been launched from his ministry. Extreme right-wing message has also been your Government's tribute to the Nazi volunteers of the Blue Division in Barcelona, a fact to which you referred by saying that it was done in an environment of historical reconciliation. What reconciliation, Mr. Fernández? They also ascended a colonel to a civilian guard who celebrated the 23rd-F anniversary in a barracks. That's why it's supposed that the twenty agents who recently were photographed under the statue of a dictator in Melilla did it for you to climb them too, right? Mr Fernández, increased repression, medals for religious figures, messianic messages, proclamations of stigmatization of foreigners, police control of the opposition and even judges. Do you consider that your mandate can be remembered as that of a 21st century European government? The facts mentioned have given rise to both the UN and the European Union and the Council of Europe, and you have made deaf ears. Do you think they're all wrong, Minister? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. No wonder you do not speak - as you call it - of the Basque question, because it would be very easy to reply to it, especially if we take into account that you have not yet condemned ETA or asked it to dissolve. In any case, as you speak of migration policy, I will tell you that with these issues it is better not to demagogue. You have spoken about El Tarajal beach and the events that took place on 6 February last year, which are subject to legal proceedings. I hope that you will at least respect the separation of powers and wait for the judicial authority to rule on these facts, for which at the moment what has been credited is that they did not occur in Spanish waters but in Moroccan waters. The Secretary of State and I appeared at the Internal Committee, an unprecedented transparency exercise was made by publishing on the ministry's website all the recordings that had been made from the border perimeter of Ceuta so that we could prove what really happened there that day. But, I insist, it is subject to the judicial authority and we believe in the separation of powers, we refer to it from the beginning of the presumption of constitutional innocence, to which the civil guards obviously also have the right to take advantage. I have to tell you that I absolutely support the Civil Guard and believe in its innocence and I have the absolute conviction that it acted proportionally and that at no time did the throwing of rubber balls that was made have the mission of directly assaulting the bodies of those people who were trying to enter our country irregularly. What it was about was to deter them, as it was accredited by the recordings and the judicial investigation. As for Melilla's theme, just... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u90	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE FELIPE JESUS SICILIA ALFEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DOES THE SECURITY OF CITIZENS IMPROVING THE ENFORCEMENT OF DEATH LAW? [[File number 180/001384]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u91	Question also to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Felipe Sicilia, from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, a week ago, the law came into force, its law bites, a law that began with the rejection of the General Council of the Judiciary, continued with the criticisms of the UN rapporteurs, alerted the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe and filled the pages of the international press, overwhelmed by the delay that this law entailed in our rights and freedoms. A law that rejects hundreds of organizations, from Amnesty International or Greenpeace to Red Cross or Caritas, minister. A law that counts on the rejection of the whole parliamentary arc, except for the People's Party; except you, Mr Fernández, no one wants this law, an unnecessary law. Because, Minister, tell us how will the security of the Spaniards improve their law gags? [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u93	Thank you, Mr. Sicily. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. As a matter of fact, Mr Sicilia, I am concerned that the pact with radical left-wing forces has led you to assume your language as your own; that worries me. [[Rumors]] With regard to that law that you qualify in the terms you have said, I will read you some of the things you should know. For example, in relation to the most controversial aspects it is worth highlighting the unauthorized use of images of police actions, which has been misinterpreted by those who oppose this law. Police actions could continue to be recorded, which prevented the law from spreading such images in such a way as to endanger the integrity of the official or his or her family. It should be recalled that in the past the dissemination of images of police officers and even their postal address has already taken place, suffering harassment by some citizens, which meant that they had to move from home. The recording of images for informational purposes is not sanctioned in this law - then I will continue -. But this is not what I say, as the four police unions unanimously say, the four police unions support this law and deny what you are saying. It seems to me that you, who are a cop, should have more respect for your 70,000 colleagues than you unanimously consider... [[Several Members: No! He's a congressman, he's a congressman!- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u95	Quiet, please! Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u96	May I continue?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u97	Continue, Minister, that I shall make arrangements for you to be heard throughout the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u98	Mr. Member, you are professionally a police officer and that is why I tell you that you should at least respect your colleagues. [[Rumors]] The police unions, unanimously, have said what I have just said and support this law to the extent that it supports the police and their families who were being harassed. The law does not prohibit recordings, it prohibits unauthorized use for the purpose of physically harassing police officers and their families. I hope you defend that and not what others are saying. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Sicily.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I am a police officer and I am very proud but to see if once and for all you will find out that I am here as a deputy to control and control your work, your work. [[Applauds]] Look, Minister, in this task of controlling the government, which is the task I have now and not the task of the police, I say to you that you cannot pretend to make us believe that a group of pensioners cheated by the preferents and who are protesting at the door of Bankia are a danger to the security of this country. Nor is it a danger to the security of this country for a group of people sitting in a house to avoid eviction. Nor are ecologists who hang on a crane to protest against their gag law a danger to this country. They are not a danger to the Spanish, they are a danger to your Government, of which you are a part. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] That is why, Minister, you are providing for sanctions that can reach up to EUR 600,000, to silence these protests. And the worst is not the sanction, the worst is that you have taken away from the judges the ability to have prior control before sanctioning the conduct. Minister, this law is only a reflection of your fear. This is the law of fear, of fear they have, minister, because they already feel dead. They're a dead government. That's how they feel and that's how this law is going to be in five months. A law that will be dead because we will repeal it and give back to the Spaniards the rights and freedoms that you have taken away from them. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u101	Thank you, Mr. Sicily. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand that they will repeal it and return to the law of kicking at the door, which was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, a lie if it's repeated a thousand times doesn't come true. I'll give you an example. The law in force until 1 July, the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, penalized as a serious offence that had been manifested without having communicated it to the Government Delegation to the Congress of Deputies or the Senate. That is the law in force until July 1. In the current law, this offence becomes minor, for example. Do you realize that? And the amounts of sanctions are the same as those established in 1992. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u103	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON MARIO BEDERA BRAVO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: IS THE MINISTER INTENTION OF IMMEDIATELY APPROVING THE DIALOGUE WITH THE AUTONOMIC GOVERNMENTS, THAT IN HIS MOST PART ARE CONTRACTING THE IMPLAINTATION OF THE LOMCE? [[File number 180/001385]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u104	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. The formula Don Mario Bedera, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u105	Thank you, President. Minister, allow me on behalf of the Socialist Group to congratulate you on your appointment as Minister of Education. You bring to this House a reputation as a friendly and dialogueable man, and indeed are virtues that you will have to exhibit and that you will need in the face of what you would call an infertile inheritance received. This inheritance will force you to decide from the first moment if you want to pass as a mere epigon of Mr Wert while languishing the legislature or if, on the contrary, you will work to correct the previous misconceptions. You have a very good opportunity to start by calling on the education sector and revising the timetable for the implementation of the Lomce because there is a new autonomous scenario, because it has been requested by the autonomous communities of all colors - last week, without going any further, my president, the president of the Autonomous Community of Castile and León, in the investiture debate repeated it - and because the uncertainty of the beginning of the course in September advises it. Are you going to do it?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u106	Thank you, Mr. Bedera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u108	Minister, don't rush. I also welcome you, but don't rush to answer until you have the microphone ready. Now, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u109	Then I'll say it again: Yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u110	Mr. Bedera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u111	Thank you, President. Very well, Minister. It is no coincidence that nine of the 17 autonomous communities have not yet approved the curricula to be implemented in September, and several were from the People's Party. It is no coincidence that some communities governed by the PP have also approved curricula with a rank of order and not with a rank of decree to run further, to skip some mandatory reports from school councils and advisory councils. It is no coincidence that many centers at this point do not know what subjects they will give in September or that there are autonomous communities with Lomce curricula and LOE textbooks and methodology. And it's no coincidence because a very hasty implantation has been made. It has been mentioned not only by the autonomous communities, but also by the trade unions, the educational community, until the Council of State. Look, the Logse took ten years to deploy, the LOCE was set at five years, with the Lomce it has been two years, but then a third was extended. You're going to be able to correct this hussy. It is absolutely in your hands; but, yes, you have to choose between seeking legal excuses for everything to remain the same, even if there is jurisprudence from the Constitutional Court, as you know, or using your diplomatic skills, which you have, to make consensus the guide of your mandate. In other words, Minister, you have to choose between whether you want to be the Prince of Salina, of The Catapardo, or King Arthur who sits at his round table to the Education Councillors. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u112	Thank you, Mr. Bedera. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u113	Mr. President, I'm not rushing now. Allow me, Your Honor, before I answer you, to express my emotion at speaking before this House. Thirty-five years ago I won the opposition to the Court Lawyers' Corps, I sat here for many years and being on this side of the barrier today is a great emotion. I believe that we all share in this House the same interest in ensuring the exercise of the fundamental right to education, for an educational system that promotes the personal and professional development of all people on equity, on equal terms, for a system from which no one is excluded. And I, in this period of time that I have ahead - I affirmed it in my inauguration, I said it yesterday in the Senate and I say it today in this House - intend to look hard for the consensus needed to achieve a stable and quality education system. This is what I care most about, and I'm sure we all share this. And I reaffirm that also in this House. To achieve this, I will listen to all the sectors involved because it is my duty as a minister and because it is also my talent. I believe in that and, therefore, I will begin to do so immediately. I would also like to say that Lomce is in force, that the timetable is in force, that there are many communities that are implementing it and that I want to listen to all sectors to see how we can achieve that goal that I believe we share. I will ask you - you have been Secretary of State and you know these issues very well - to help me in this. I was in Aragon on Sunday at the president's inauguration. The president of Aragon told me about bidirectional loyalty and I found that the first thing the councilwoman of the government of Aragon does is to paralyse the Lomce. Tell him to wait until he talks to me, tell him, please, to listen to me. Ortega said that useless effort produces melancholy and I do not want to end up being a melancholy minister based on useless efforts. Anyway, I thank you for your intervention. Yesterday in the Senate one of his colleagues compared me to André Malraux, today I am already between the Prince of Salina or King Arthur. Thank you for this reception. I hope I'm worthy of him. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u114	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DO YOU THINK THE BEST WAY TO FOUND NATALITY IS TO APPLY A COMPLEMENT TO THE PENSION DECADE AFTER YOU WERE MAD? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001378]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u115	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. He asked, first of all, Mr Emilio Olabarría, Member of the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you consider it reasonable for the Government to place the only known birth policies of your Government in the age segment of pensioners with two or more children and in widows?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u117	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Olabarría, this is one of the two hundred proposals and measures that we have put forward in the Comprehensive Family Support Plan, which I invite you to read so that you can see that it is an important plan for the family, for women and for the future of this country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u119	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u120	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply and for your invitation to read this interesting document. We're on it. I would like to comment, in any case, that birth policies are important policies to avoid one of the perversions that affect the future of our pension system, which is the investment of the population pyramid. In any known country in the world where there is no practice of what Italian doctrine would call creative innovation or alternative use of law, and in this case also alternative use of biology - if I may say so - birth policies are located and focused on the age segment of women and couples who are of childbearing age, between sixteen and thirty-six years, and between sixteen and forty years in some Scandinavian countries. It does not seem reasonable or useful to locate birth policies through a legal expectation that will occur thirty-five years later. Why? Because people who can procreate, for biological reasons, do not know if thirty-five years later there will be a public pension system like the one we know, whether this contingency will be protected, whether it will be protected in this way or otherwise. From this perspective, these policies, euphemistically called by his native government, have no virtuality. But, moreover, you are doing it wrong, Minister, because you are doing it by what you call a contributory supplement for retired women with two or more children. The supplement cannot be of a contributory nature because the budget of the contribution, of the contribution is missing, and there is no benefit in respect of which funding has not been contributed that has this nature or nature of the contribution. It could be helpful or non-contributory. In any case, Madam Minister, it does not seem to us wrong to increase pensions; pensions in the Spanish State, in average terms, are the second lowest in Community Europe. Upgrading pensions is good as a concept, as a general principle; what we should all avoid in the area of pensions is extravagance, this humus of extravagance that has this measure and, above all, we should all avoid, Minister - and that is why the Toledo Pact was created - electoralism. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u121	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría, for the tone of your question. We are making a proposal for the debate in the Toledo Pact and I am sure that you and your parliamentary group will enrich it with important contributions. What we are trying to do from the government with this proposal is to correct a double discrimination that has occurred in Spanish society, and it is that women have shorter contribution careers - the average is in thirty-one years compared to forty-one men - and that they have lower pensions - 38% lower pension for women compared to men. What we do is to incorporate an element that everyone, inside and outside this country, has valued as positive, which is not only the economic contribution in terms of future pensions but also the demographic contribution. Mr Olabarría, with this initiative, which is an initiative in which Spain is at the forefront of other countries of the European Union, we are correcting a major discrimination against women. We therefore propose a pension supplement of up to 15% for women with more than two children. We are making women correct that serious historical discrimination. But we do not do it as an occurrence, as you have at some point been able to see, we do it - and in this we are modern, Mr Olabarría, and I am sure that you will also accept it because you consider it - as the recommendations of the European Union in the 2012 Green Paper on pensions point out, in which birth is recognised as the axis of the future model of pensions, in compliance with a recommendation of the Toledo Pact - in which you are - which proposes to incorporate the gender dimension in the area of pensions when making future decisions, and as the June European Council of this year, in which real equality between men and women is called for, also in the area of pensions. Mr Olabarria, this is going to benefit more than 500,000 women by 2019 who are going to correct that historic discrimination they had in our country, lower pensions and fewer contributory careers. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u123	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA ISABEL LÓPEZ I CHAMOSA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY VALUE THE GOVERNMENT'S STATEMENTS ON PENSIONS? [[File number 180/001386]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u124	Question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security by Mrs Isabel López i Chamosa of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Does the Government share the statements of the Governor of the Banco de España who advises young people to make a private pension plan because in the future their pensions will be lower?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs López i Chamosa, the government shares with the rest of Spanish society the commitment to this public pension system that we have made to each other throughout this democratic stage; a public system that, as a government, we contribute to strengthening with reforms and commitments, budget to budget. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u128	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u129	Minister, I now understand why no one in the government has corrected the governor, because basically what the governor is saying is that with Law 23/2012, which regulates the sustainability factor, its favorite law, its parent law, all pensions in the future will be lower. It will also have something to do with the withdrawal by the Government of the letter of information that it had to send to all workers, especially those aged 60, in order to inform them of what their pension would be in the future. Why did they take her away? Why would they have to admit that their pensions are going to be lower? Is that why they pulled her out? Madam Minister, they are now euphoric because they say that contributions have increased, that is, social security contributors. There are the same contributors as in 2011 but with a difference, that like you to get these contributions have divided employment, Social Security revenues have fallen. The evidence of this is that they have had to get their hands on the Social Security box, the pension box, Minister, the one left to them by the socialist government. [[Rumors]] Now you can tell me that socialists freeze pensions, but you know it's a lie. It was the Government that raised pensions the most. In addition, Minister, since Law 23/2012, your favorite law, you have made sure that pensioners do not have any increase in their pension and that none of the future pensioners have one hundred percent of their pension. He took the letter from them. Send a letter to the workers apologizing for their cut in their... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u130	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, let me tell you, with all the affection, that in order to give pension lessons the Socialist Party should do a reflection because every time it governs we find the pension system in red numbers, with misfortune and with the biggest attack on the social policy of democracy, which is to freeze the pensions of our elders as they did in 2010. [[Rumors]] [[Protests]] Yes, honourable Member, the Zapatero Government did so with the support of the Socialist Group in the House. What puts the system at risk is that there are fewer contributors, those 3.5 million people who have reached unemployment and who have therefore ceased to contribute to the system. What we have done is quite the contrary, an economic policy for growth and, above all, for job creation, because employment is the real guarantor of the present and future sustainability of the system. That is why we can say today, Mrs López i Chamosa, that we pay more pensions than ever to more pensioners than ever -400,000 more -, 4.8% more than when we arrived at the government. We spend more on pensions today, 15% more, than when we arrive in December 2011. We also pay higher pensions and already the average exceeds for the first time in our country 1,000 euros; in addition, we do so by increasing the purchasing power of pensioners at a very difficult time of budgetary stability. Pensioners have won more than 2 billion euros in 2013 and 2014 thanks to an economic policy to contain inflation and raise pensions every year. Mrs López i Chamosa, the system is guaranteed in the present and in the future with a combination: employment and reforms. Do you know why these reforms? To ensure that pensions always go up in Spain, govern those who rule and never freeze again, as happened with the socialist government. Pensions will always rise according to the needs of the system to ensure that there are pensions today and young people will also have them tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u132	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN MOSCOSE OF HERNANDEZ PRADO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY AND COMPETITIVENESS: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE ECONOMIC SITUATION OF GREECE? [[File number 180/001387]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u133	Question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness by Mr Juan Moscoso del Prado of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u134	Minister, how do you assess the situation in Greece?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u135	Thank you, Mr Moscoso del Prado. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u136	Your Honor, as you are perfectly aware, last night there was a summit in the euro area at which it was decided that before Thursday, that is, tomorrow, Greece must submit a formal request and a programme from the MEDE, from the rescue fund. It must also present a complete list of reforms - so-called conditionality - which will be analysed by the institutions. On Saturday we will have a meeting of the Eurogroup, which will assess this conditionality and see if there are sufficient grounds to start negotiating an MED programme. On Sunday, as your ladies and gentlemen also know, a European Council has been convened to decide ultimately. This is a request that is strictly in line with Community rules and regulations, i.e. the MED Treaty. Finally, in the next few days I will ask the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for the fifteenth time to speak not only about the Spanish economy but also about the situation in Greece. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Moscoso.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u138	Minister, thank you, but what you have told us this morning is known to us through the media. We want to know the concrete position of the Spanish Government in the face of the Greek crisis because we know very well that it is not, for example, that of France or Italy, conciliation positions and that they seek to reach an agreement in the interests of all, an agreement that is European. We want the Spanish Government to commit itself to a just and sustainable agreement, and also not to turn its back on the Greek people. In recent months and weeks, we believe that the position of the Spanish Government has been excessively insensitive, irresponsible and also very irrelevant. Speaking of sensibility, we believe that the Greek people have had in recent weeks a behavior that has shown integrity and civicism, so we demand respect and more sensitivity. We do not share the position of the People's Party and its Government that how much worse in Greece, better for this Government, so we believe that yesterday's words of a spokesman for his party talking about attacks, muggings and citizen security in Greece should be rectified, if that is not true. Yesterday too, Minister, as you know, the leaders of the PES met in Brussels, and the leaders of my parliamentary group, the political leaders of Social Democracy demanded a number of agreements. Firstly, it should be clearly ruled out that Greece is going to leave the euro. We also demand far-reaching reforms in Greece because we must recognise, and we must not deny, the mistakes made in Greece for years; fiscal reform and administrative reform are necessary and, of course, their primary and fiscal surplus must be compatible with growth because no one doubts their mistakes. We also call for a new way of restructuring Greek debt to be compatible with growth, bearing in mind that it has accumulated for a long time because of austerity, deflation and the troika's impositions. Minister, I have told you many times: it would be very good if there was a Spaniard at the head of the Eurogroup, but it would be much better if the Eurogroup put in place other policies that were compatible with growth and sustainability, because we believe that what is happening in Greece is morally unacceptable. So, take the opportunity, make a stand, do as the five presidents have done with their report and really say what they want for Greece and for the future of economic governance in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Moscoso del Prado. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honour, the position of the Spanish Government is that adopted yesterday by the summit, namely: compliance with the rules; aid to Greece, not unconditional aid, but subject to conditionality; and of course, it is necessary to comply with all the conditions, with all the requirements laid down in the Treaty. That has always been the Spanish position and, moreover, you know perfectly well that that has been the consideration. Spain argues that the best thing that can happen is for Greece to remain in the euro; the euro is an irreversible project in which the territorial integrity of all its members is defended, and therefore, that is what we have always defended. But there is one issue that is important, Your Honor: a year ago - it seems false - Greece was beginning to grow, to create employment, there was even talk of a clean exit, Greece even reissued, Your Honor; and today, as a result of the deterioration of the economy in the last six months, Greece has returned to the recession, you will see it in the data that are going to be produced, which indicates that the recession is deep. Moreover, we have a very painful situation - which should be considered why we have arrived at it -; we have a bank holiday and a corralito imposed by a decree-law of the Greek authorities themselves. The key is the implementation of pension tax reforms, market reforms, which stabilizes the Greek economy and restores it to growth. That's where we all are, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u141	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u142	Let us now discuss the amendments to the whole of the draft national security law. For the introduction of this bill, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u143	With venial, Mr. President. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in this rostrum for the defence of the national security bill. A law that does not only respond to the will of a Government but is now becoming an unavoidable obligation for any State that wants to guarantee the security of the country and its citizens. It responds to a new global reality that has changed, is changing and will continue to do so. This context in the concept of security itself has acquired new facets and new facets because it is subject to new threats and requires a new approach in dealing with them; that is what we are talking about here today. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that regardless of the differences that we may have, we will all in this House share that security is in fact a public good, a right of citizens and, consequently, a duty of the State, if I am in haste, the first. It is the basis on which we support the exercise of our freedoms and the effectiveness of our rights. Security allows us to generate confidence and build certainty; it is an indispensable condition for people to be able to develop their life projects and societies to make progress in their own progress, in short, to exercise freedom. Security is therefore one of the essential components of the general interest of a country in which collective expectations and individual rights are brought together and built. For this reason, ensuring the maintenance of national security is an obligation and an objective which, by its very definition, rests with and involves the whole State; a task in which many and very different actors, public and private, participate, which requires us to work from all levels and every day of the year. That is why this is a policy that should maintain essential keys to any contingency and preserve these principles beyond political conjunctures. We can welcome the fact that the government party and the main opposition party are seeing it that way. In this way, we ensure the constancy of what is necessary and the continuity of what is fundamental, which is what characterizes a real State policy, as must always be the security policy, because it is the most essential defence of our rights, our freedoms and our well-being and, in the times ahead, of the model of coexistence and the values of an advanced democracy. But this must also be compatible with the inevitable dynamism in which we are immersed, because since the end of the twentieth century the evolution of society has also changed the concept and the conditions of security itself. Today's world is a world in constant transformation and growing interactivity; a globalized, interdependent and multipolar world; a world in which geopolitical changes acquire a new dimension, a greater speed and a broad projection of their effects; a world in which borders tend to become blurred by the development of the relationship between countries and of communications between people, and in which the evolution of technologies opens up so many opportunities for the progress of nations as possibilities for those who want to act against this progress. Therefore, we are faced with an interconnected scenario from which it is not possible to remain alien and even less in a country such as Spain, in which its openness to the outside world is growing more and more and in which 32 % of our gross domestic product is based on trade with other States; a country which receives more than 60 million foreign tourists a year and which also has a privileged and strategic position in Europe, the Mediterranean and the Atlantic. In the same way we find a dynamic scenario in which space and time acquire new senses and a relationship that no longer seems linear, that is not linear. Events, consequences and reactions occur at a dizzying and sometimes simultaneous rate. The centers of power move and so do the centers of instability. People have more and more mobility options and habits to develop, but also to develop projects against that security. In this scenario, risks come from new areas and take different expressions, vulnerabilities are diversified and increased. The same must therefore be true of the concept of security. The concept of security has ceased to have the predominantly political or military meaning to which we were accustomed in the past, linked almost exclusively to the field of defence and articulated on the basis of reactive principles. Today, security is a much broader, more dynamic and multidisciplinary concept in which all areas of protection converge, all of which can ultimately affect the freedom, well-being and progress of societies. This is because the more traditional aspects of public defence and security are joined by others who until recently could seem distant from these considerations but which have progressively been consolidated as part of a broader vision of security. I am talking to you about areas such as the development of new technologies, the production or supply of energy or even the effects on the natural conditions and disasters of climate change. All this therefore places us in a much more complex situation, both because of the variety of actors involved and because of the speed with which they evolve and the uncertainty that all this entails. In short, security in an interdependent and globalized world must be conceived as an integral model and, in a context marked by dynamism and immediacy, be able to offer agile and almost automatic responses. To this day, to preserve safety is to prevent risks and to act is to anticipate. It is therefore necessary to apply innovative approaches far removed in many cases from previous inertias, new approaches that are essential if we also consider that they are aimed at managing situations whose origin and consequences transcend the scope of a single State and evolve at the same rate as our context and even our knowledge does. That is why it is not possible today to maintain a compartmentalized view of security. Therefore, as I said, when we talk about comprehensive security we must take into account not only the most obvious risks, such as armed conflict, terrorism or organized crime, or their most common links with terrorist networks and even natural disasters, we must now take into account other factors that either enhance the danger of such risks or represent real threats in themselves. Consider, for example, the harmful use of new information and communication technologies or the proliferation of weapons of high destruction capacity. Similarly, areas requiring enhanced protection against such threats or any of their effects must be covered. I am speaking to you, by putting some cases, of the need to ensure the security of critical infrastructures essential for public services or basic supplies or of the new implications of security in the economic, energy, environmental or health fields. In the same vein, we need to assess the vulnerability of our airspace and outer space or maritime space, taking into account the possibilities it offers for criminal activities such as piracy and trafficking in arms, drugs or even persons. Unfortunately, our country is not alien to any of these threats, and some know them very closely. Terrorism has struck our country for more than fifty years of suffering and pain, but the unity of action of the Democrats and the maturity and exemplaryness of Spanish society have managed to impose themselves on barbarism and have placed Spain abroad as a benchmark in the fight against terrorism. It is an experience that unfortunately is and remains a demand today, also in the face of the threat of jihadist terrorism, a risk that affects all democratic States, which is at a particularly critical moment today and which needs to be underlined in any case by the barbarity and unwiseness that represent organizations whose name I do not intend to pronounce because they will not find in me any publicity echo. They are organizations that, from blind and exacerbated fanaticism, try to impose by force a unique and exclusive vision of Islam, committing all kinds of criminal actions that are increasingly cruel and increasingly execrable. Just a few weeks ago we had a recent and unfortunate proof of this, as was the succession of attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait; from here I would like, once again, to condemn these facts completely. We are therefore faced with a major risk against which we must respond with all our efforts, from international collaboration with other allied States to concertation of wills in our country. I would therefore like to highlight the pact reached in February with the main opposition party for the persecution and punishment of terrorism, as well as the support that some spokesmen have given to the reform of the Criminal Code that we adopted in March with this objective and which is now in force. This reform already incorporates many of the aspects that particularise and enhance the risks of jihadist terrorism and that deserve priority attention, such as the monitoring of the structures established in Spain of these terrorist groups, which are dedicated to the capture, financing or dispatch of jihadists to Syria and Iraq, Afghanistan or the Sahel, as well as their connections with facilitation networks established in third countries or combatants returned to Spain or neighbouring countries such as France, Morocco or Tunisia. It must be borne in mind that this terrorism acquires a transnational dimension precisely because it takes advantage of the characteristics of global society, such as the ease of movement, the new ways of obtaining financing or adding followers and the new ways of carrying out attacks or multiplying the impact of their actions. Think, for example, of the capacity that new technologies have provided for the capture of the faithful or the dissemination of the results of their crimes. On this I think we should all reflect on our objectives. From this point of view, cybersecurity is also a major challenge. The development of new information and communication technologies has diluted borders and established immediacy in our relations, allowing for unprecedented globalization that, while providing new opportunities, brings serious challenges and threats. The growing cyber-dependency of society in its public and private aspects increases vulnerability to potential attacks, whether in its forms of cyberterrorism, cybercrime or cyber espionage, becoming a powerful instrument of aggression. In the same way as the low cost and minimal risk they pose to the attacker and their easy use, effectiveness and accessibility are factors that explain the extent of this phenomenon. Therefore, one of the priority areas of national security action is to ensure the integrity, confidentiality and availability of IT and cyber services, particularly in those cases where they support the provision of widely used services, as well as the management of critical infrastructure. Because it cannot be ignored that modern societies like ours are increasingly dependent on the complex system of services that guarantee not only security, but also support the basic social functions - welfare, health -, access to goods and supplies, economic and commercial activity, privacy and the right to privacy of individuals and also the functioning of State institutions and public administrations. In this sense, any disruption to critical infrastructures, understood as those networks, systems and equipment whose operation is indispensable and does not allow for alternative solutions, can have a serious impact on the stability of a country, the well-being of its citizens and, therefore, national security. In this area, others of equal importance come together, such as energy dependence and vulnerability, as well as the effects of natural emergencies and disasters, or even those that may be caused under the same manifestations by human activity, such as nuclear crises. They are just a few examples - but sufficiently illustrative of the level of danger achieved by some - of the global threats, the magnitude of the challenge they embody and the very serious consequences that they bring when they materialize. The marked transnational nature of the risks and the fact that many of them lack a single centre of territorial gravity makes it more difficult to identify their origin and renders isolated reactions impossible and almost useless, and highlights the absolute need for States to cooperate very closely in the face of changing, diffuse, asymmetric threats and that they sometimes interact with each other and thus enhance their danger. New challenges to national security with regard to traditional concerns, such as new vulnerabilities, dismantle sectoral response and action frameworks and can only be addressed, addressed and resolved through open, operational and global approaches. Proof of this is the progress made in recent years in the development of a new European foreign and security policy strategy, a path not without difficulties, starting from the fact that until the Treaty of Lisbon in 2009, we did not even have an institutional architecture that would make a common defence policy feasible. A European Security and Defence Council was held for the first time since the entry into force of the Treaty in December 2013. In that Council we agreed to work on strengthening that common policy, also thinking about how to share capacities and how to pool resources for a strategic approach for the whole of the European Union. At the last European Council, last June, it was agreed that the High Representative, Federica Mogherini, should continue the reflection process in order to prepare, in close cooperation with the Member States, a comprehensive European Union strategy on foreign and security policy to be presented to the European Council by July 2016. It follows from this European endeavour that security actions, both on the international and national scene, must be presided over by the so-called triple C rule, cooperation, coordination and complementarity, in order to ensure an effective reaction capacity, now and in the future. For this reason, the Government of Spain, like all the democratically advanced States, must be able to provide comprehensive responses to global challenges, working together with our partners and allies to develop complementary and synergistic actions for the benefit of common interests and avoiding duplication of effort. If that is the case at international level, it should most rightly be done within our borders. We must be able to integrate our efforts with proactive approaches and capacity optimization to adapt to a complex and changing strategic scenario. This Government, in line with what other countries have done in our environment and the line begun at the end of the last legislature, has assumed the need for a comprehensive approach to security, an approach that involves coordinating actions and being able to mobilize resources, from military force to diplomacy, the State Security Forces and Bodies or intelligence services, to expand coverage of all areas and ensure the protection of our country, its citizens and principles, our social and democratic State of law. In this way, we have provided Spain, on the one hand, with a strategic framework for the orientation of State action on an integral conception of our environment, its risks and protection itself. This framework is the one that represents the national security strategy adopted in May 2013 and elaborated on a review of the Spanish security strategy of 2011, with agreement in both cases of the main opposition party. On the other hand, we have had an organic architecture of action and response, the National Security Council, as a governing body that assists the President in the direction of this essential policy now constituted two years ago. Spain has thus since 2013 incorporated new instruments with which there are already very advanced countries in the field of national security, such as the United Kingdom, France or the United States, countries that have for years had their own advice for the management of this policy at the highest level and that even some, such as the British, have specific laws to regulate their role in crisis management. This is precisely the step that had yet to be completed in Spain for the full incorporation of a comprehensive vision of national security. The practical implementation of this approach requires a new organization and a regulatory adaptation, which is the one carried out in the draft national security law that we are debating today, whose elaboration was already contemplated in the strategy and was expressly mandated by the National Security Council since its Constitution. The desirability of having a legal text of this nature lies - as the Council of State has pointed out in its opinion - in the opportunity to incorporate this comprehensive, comprehensive concept of security in order to protect the sectoral regulations that have so far legislated the traditional aspects of security, referring to defence, public security, external action or intelligence, and thereby to establish an advanced approach to national security that, far from a vision, between quotation marks, conservative, as some group refers to in its amendment to the whole, pursues the better organization of State instruments, competences and resources, ensuring unity of action, rationalization of means, multiplication of capacities and synergies, and coherence, effectiveness and integration of efforts. All this calls for better coordination between public administrations and the involvement of the private sphere and civil society in order to enable risk prevention and its neutralization, especially in crisis situations, considered to be situations of national security interest, in which, without resorting to the extraordinary circumstances that give rise to states of alarm, exception and site, and therefore without implying suspension or suppression of constitutionally envisaged rights, they do have a special effective or potential gravity in their consequences or require a greater dimension or transversality in their management, or simply require, ladies and gentlemen, a political impetus that citizens demand and that all public administrations and all governments need to be able to cope with. These circumstances require coordinated and cooperative action by the competent authorities in the discharge of their ordinary powers, ensuring the optimal, integrated and effective functioning of the means and resources available; they also require joint visions, as will be done through the Sectoral Security Conference. What we do, therefore, in the face of what may seem and which some groups have pointed out in their amendments as a whole, is to open up new avenues and procedures for joint action which so far did not exist to integrate crisis situations through a concertation of state and public capacities, with absolute respect for the competences of each administration. When a crisis situation arises, ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged to understand each other and in fact have been doing so in situations of concern for civil protection in an informal manner. Ladies and gentlemen, let us work together through this sectoral security conference, through the various elements of consultation that we have. The first obligation of a modern State is to ensure security with the means at its disposal, ladies and gentlemen. It is a matter of working together in the exercise of each other's competences, but we must be able to exercise them in the interests of a general interest: the safety of all citizens. The Security Council is thus open to the participation of administrations or entities that may be affected or interested in certain security-critical situations and for the first time a sectoral conference on national security matters is established as a cooperation body for the treatment and resolution of issues of common concern in this area. Mechanisms already in place are therefore being used to address the new challenges inherent in the current concept of security. Similarly, we open this new concept of security to the participation of Parliament, since its general guidelines will - they have already been - be discussed in the General Courts on the occasion of the presentation of successive revisions of the national security strategy, as well as the annual reports, in which both the progress made and the absences detected in this area are assessed, which we have already done in the years 2013 and 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of imposing any vision, but of sharing for the purposes of administrations or in this House the important challenges that we all face. In addition, in order to give the utmost relevance and the broadest dimension to these initiatives, the law proposes to this House the creation of a Congress-Senate Joint Committee on National Security. The objective is to centralize in this body the debate on the different strategic positions, as well as the attendance, at least annually, of the Government to report on the situation and evolution of our security. In the same vein, and in pursuit of the maximum involvement of all actors, the aim is to promote a culture of national security that will enable the involvement of the private sector and civil society in the formulation and implementation of national security policy since the belief that the collaboration of all is the best way to ensure the security of all. In fact, the National Security Act, with this in mind, is a change of mindset with the aim of adapting the political management of security to the real and changing conditions of our environment, conditions that require constant interrelationship between all the agencies belonging to the most diverse fields of action and that means replacing the cooperation schemes that existed in the past with the integration of all the available means that adaptation to the geostrategic scenario imposes on us. I would like to draw your attention to the seriousness of the risks that are drawn in this context and to the particular concern that generates issues such as the threat of jihadist terrorism, a real and critical threat, far from a mere discursive context - as some group points out in its amendment to the whole - to seek motivations that are totally alien to it and that really escape what we should consider sensible. I call your attention, in short, to these issues in order to appeal in this law to a new opportunity, a new scope for agreement, for agreement against barbarism, for agreement against any kind of threat that threatens our rights and freedoms, our democracy, to defend those democratic values of mutual respect and peaceful coexistence that we have an ethical obligation to transmit to the rest of the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u144	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Government. Four amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, whose representatives are going to defend the amendments tabled and to set their position, Mr Tardà has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President of the Spanish Government, for us there is no doubt that one of the main objectives of this draft national security law, a few months, in fact a few weeks, of calling elections in Catalonia and after its failed attempts to prevent the great mobilization on 9 November, is to suspend de facto powers of the Generalitat and of the Catalan municipalities. A few weeks from a possible sovereignist democratic victory that can lead to a constituent process to make the Catalan Republic a reality, you are inventing a situation of exceptionality so that, through a National Security Council, you can dispose under your command of all material and human resources, public or private, to prevent the exercise of the democratic mandate that could leave the Catalan ballot box on 27 September, no more or less. You are already mentally installed in a possible state of alarm and exception and, as I would like this scenario even to provoke you to vertigo, by beast - and forgive the expression - by fascism - and forgive the expression - and because it would further internationalize the Catalan conflict, you go and invent this instrument, an instrument that requires a situation of interest for national security, an instrument that does not require in parallel as many guarantees or as much parliamentary control as is required in the states of alarm and exception. In fact, it is an instrument that does not only require the realization of intentions or actions, and I refer to the content of the bill. That would allow them to immediately have control of the Mossos d ́Esquadra and the local police. All this with only a simple majority in Congress, only through a royal decree containing exclusively the following aspects: the obligation to define the crisis, the delimitation of the geographical scope, its duration, possible extensions, available resources. And attention to the degree of indecretion in defining the situation of interest to national security - and I refer to article 23-: It will be a situation of interest to national security that, because of the actual or potential gravity of its effects and the dimension and transversality of the measures for its resolution, requires the enhanced coordination of the competent authorities in the discharge of their ordinary powers, under the direction of the Government, within the framework of the national security system, ensuring the optimal, integrated and flexible functioning of all available resources under the terms provided for in this law. I mean, do it when it comes out of their noses. Then I ask you: are you telling us that the will of Catalan citizens would lead to a situation of interest for national security? Shouldn't interest lie in knowing what and why the will of a large part of Catalan citizenship and respecting it? That is the way to resolve conflicts, and I refer - here we have talked about it on many occasions - to the deeply democratic behaviour of the large British parties, unlike the position of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, in everything that has affected Scotland's legitimate demands. Do you think - I wonder, Madam Vice-President - that by twisting the rule of law you are going to solve the problems posed by history? Democracy is unbeatable. In fact, democracy has made it possible to solve the problems posed by history, and if, on the one hand, you retort legality, retort the rule of law, on the other hand, we are also convinced that you sometimes miss it. And I say this from the surprise of these last few days, knowing, for example, everything that has made public Xnet, an activist organization for network democracy, the free movement of culture, knowledge of information and anti-corruption. Thanks to them we have known - and asked the Government to know if it is true - that in 2010, when the Socialist Party ruled, services were contracted by the National Police Corps and the National Intelligence Centre with this company that in other States has worked for their governments in order to spy on social movements and politicians. We are awaiting the Government's response. We want to think that it is not true, because if it were true, then we would all be here today very but very concerned because the story we know about this company is that it has been hired in other states to control computers, phones, whatsapps of politicians and leaders of social movements. And according to this information, the contract that was established between the National Intelligence Centre and this company is still valid today. We are very, very alarmed, in fact we would be very calm if the Vice-President told us today that we do not have to suffer at all, that it is impossible, that no Member of this House, that no elected office has been spied on. Know, ladies and gentlemen, that sovereign victory is possible. In fact, this Member, like hundreds of thousands of Catalan citizens, will try to win democratically on 27 September, with the same legitimacy as other hundreds of thousands of Catalan compatriots will choose other solutions. Dialectics are thus established between different democratic options, all legitimate. And that's the point. And you today, in the twenty-first century, come to us with dialectics being established within the framework of national security. But don't we live in the core of the civilized world, where everything begins and everything ends in democracy? How can a dialectic as perverse as this one be established? You should ask yourself, then, how far you want to go to defeat - intercomilado, because the popular will is never defeated - in order to violate democratic principles that we all share, you and we all. They should not enter into a perverse spiral of negation of the same democracy; this would sink this government, would sink the Spanish democratic system and would be an attack on Spanish society. There will be elections and plebiscite on 27 September in Catalonia. Why? Because it says Republican Left? No, because it's possible that this is what citizenship wants. Moreover, you, who now deny the plebiscite character of these elections, if the sovereignists do not win, will be the first - and I understand it perfectly - to come out to say: the sovereignist parties have not won, we have won the unionists. In fact, they will if they win; we will do everything we can to win democratically. So the plebiscite character is given by the people, neither you nor I. It is a matter of concern that the PSOE has not tabled an amendment to this bill in its entirety; it is a matter of great concern. I do not know whether you agree with the content, whether you are going to be part of the violent solution - very thickly intercommissioned - or whether you are going to table amendments. I cannot move forward with what you will do because I do not know it, but we are very concerned that you have not tabled an amendment in its entirety. In fact, as you are already competing to see who has the largest flag, perhaps we, somewhat concerned about it, see this non-submission of an amendment to the whole as something worrying. We find it hard to think that you are part of the threat. I note with respect to all the Spanish Democrats that this legislation also supports exceptional interventions for situations of social protest or perhaps, why not, in the face of situations, in the face of constituent scenarios, of rupture. So let us note that this proposal is coined by the Government itself, in fact it has been engendered by it, which it has legitimately approved, because it has an absolute majority, the law gags, and this is worrying. We therefore ask for your vote in favour of our amendment to the whole of this national security bill, which we believe is a tailor-made suit to be able to act in the coming months in Catalonia, or at least have the instrument to do so. If the weapon they want to win with is fear, they are already absolutely defeated. In Catalonia we will do everything to the Catalan: civic, peaceful and democratic, because all Catalans, all of us, those who are in favour of independence and those who are against independence, know that the most appreciated value is that of social cohesion and the democratic exercise of our civil rights. Therefore, with fear you are not going anywhere, and this bill is your only instrument. I'll see you on September 27th and we'll do everything we can to win. [[Finish your Catalan intervention]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Olabarría. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President of the Government, I already mentioned Madame Roland before being executed that how many misdeeds have been committed in the name of security. The true expression is that how many trophies had been committed in the name of freedom, but for the purposes that concern us in relation to the discussion of this law, they are practically synonymous concepts. Madam Vice-President, I am not surprised that you have the presentation because you have to make use of a person with enough facility to sell what is difficult to explain and with legal knowledge also to explain what is legally inexplicable. I am surprised, Madam Vice-President, in the first place, with what parsimony and calmness you have spoken of national security as if the concept were a constitutionally existing concept, when you know, Madam Vice-President, that this is not a constitutionally existing concept, yet. But I am more surprised at you, who is a subtle and brilliant jurist; I am surprised that you intend to introduce into the Spanish Constitution a concept of constitutional dimension and that it has in some cases devastating effects constitutionally, particularly in the distribution of competences in certain areas and subjects between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities. An organic law, they have not even used an ordinary law; they are violating - and you, who are a good constitutionalist, you know - the principle of normative hierarchy proclaimed in article 9 of the Constitution, first of all. But it is not the only precept that is expressly violated in this bill. The definition of national security itself suffers from a problem of indefinition; it is a diffuse concept, it is a concept that rules out the meta-legal aspect when the State's action to protect the freedom and well-being of citizens is defined by national security, to guarantee the defence of Spain, its constitutional principles and values, and to contribute, together with our partners and allies, to international security in the fulfilment of the commitments made. Madam Vice-President, with this very diffuse definition, so legally insecure, so omni-comprehensive, a definition that includes all the conducts, all the acts, all the actions that happen in humanity, as long as all these concepts are erected so secure and legally so omni-comprehensive, so diffuse, in elements that can create situations of interest to national security and these are all the things that happen in the world and that also happen in the Spanish State, we are disturbing and jeopardizing the operative principle of the autonomous State. As long as the possibility of action of the General Administration of the State, the President of the Government and the National Security Council is enabled by such an omni-comprehensive definition that it accommodates all the events of life, as I say to you, the President of the Government could assume, could absorb all the powers exercised by the General Administration of the State, the autonomous administrations, the local administrations, the institutional administrations, and even affect the property of individuals, by invoking the situation affected by the national interest, by national security. From that perspective, we are not only violating another principle of the Constitution, Madam Vice-President, which is the principle of legal certainty also proclaimed by article 9 of the Constitution, a clearly insecure definition that enables exorbitant and universal powers of action of the State Administration by absorbing and compromising - ultimately, if I may say so - autonomous powers and of any other institution; we are also facing a problem of breaking the operative principle, which is a principle that forms the autonomous State. In short, we are seriously endangering the very existence of the ontological principles, of the inspiring principles of the autonomous state. See to what extent it is true what I am telling you, Madam Vice-President, that for the fulfilment of this so diffused definition by the State we have to resort to article 9.1 of the bill. Here we find with what are the fundamental objects and components of the concept of national security that finally disaggregate, providing some legal certainty to what in the generic definition did not exist, a principle of definition a little more strict, a little more concrete. The fundamental components of national security are national defence, first of all, despite the fact that you have intended in your speech to transcend the concept of national defence; secondly, public security, even though you have also intended to transcend and, in fact, the draft law transcends the concept of public security; and thirdly, foreign action, which affirms section 9.1 of the draft law that all of them are regulated by their specific regulations. If all these concepts of national security are regulated by your specific legislation, what is needed, Madam Vice-President, is a law regulating national security, if there are already specific regulations governing all these matters in all areas and coordination elements and elements of action that have persisted and functioned correctly in certain crises that have occurred in the Spanish State. This precept already delegates the very existence of this law, as long as it invokes the regulatory sectoral regulations. But there's more trouble. This bill incorporates national defence into the functions that have hitherto been the responsibility of public security. Public security is a concept that is provided for in the Constitution; it is a constitutionalized concept; national security is not a constitutionalized concept. It is divided into two areas of action, those relating to the institutions formed by the Armed Forces and those relating to the institutions to which the State Security Corps responds. The functions of the Armed Forces are provided for in article 8 of the Constitution: to guarantee the sovereignty and independence of Spain, to defend its territorial integrity - this is a concept discussed by democratic military and non-military democrats - and the constitutional order. With regard to the other matter of disaggregation of public security, which is the only constitutional concept to which you could legitimately have referred, because the concept of national security does not exist constitutionally and cannot exist by this law because this law would have to provoke a constitutional reform of the Constitution because of its constitutional effects, because of its constitutional dimension, the concept of public security is disaggregated under article 104 of the Constitution, concerning the powers of the Security Forces and Bodies, which are to protect the free exercise of rights and freedoms and to guarantee citizen security. With both precepts, with article 8 of the Constitution and with 104, all the objectives of this bill are already covered, because all the others, article 9.1 of the bill, already refers to its applicable sectoral legislation, the environment, the economy, the guarantee of public freedoms, that of citizen security, etc. From this perspective, besides being useless and superabundant and being a law that does not contribute anything to our legal system, it is a law that has severe problems of unconstitutionality due to other problems located in other precepts. In the area of public security, one of the aspects in which national security is disaggregated, article 149.129 (a) of the Constitution confers the exclusive competence of the State in the field of public security, without prejudice to the possibility of the establishment of police by the autonomous communities in the manner in which they are established in the respective statutes and within the framework of an organic law. There are already these police officers, Madam Vice President, there are integral police officers in the Spanish State, the Mossos d'Esquadra in Catalonia and the Ertzainza in Euskadi, who have the same powers as the State Security Corps and Forces in their own field. This concept of public security is terribly disturbed as soon as there are elements that affect national security so diffusely, so deleteriously configured and defined in the bill. The organizational dependence and functional dependence of these security forces, of these integral police officers will automatically depend on the President of the Government, their functioning will depend on the actual decrees that are adopted to meet the crisis situation that occurs and on the requirements or provisions of the National Security Council, which has an absolutely state imprint, without any autonomous representation in its configuration. From this point of view there is the expoliation of a competition. I am referring to the Ertzaintza, whose operation is provided for in Article 17 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, which states that the Ertzaintza is not only an integral police force, but that its constitutional legitimacy derives from the single additional provision, is legitimized by the historical rights constitutionalized by the single additional provision of the Constitution itself. It is not only an integral police force, but it replaces the pre-existing ones, the minions and mikelets, and it has all the powers of public security, of public security, of judicial police and of civil protection. From this perspective, this possibility of absorption by the President of the Government of autonomous police of an integral nature constitutes a negation of what is provided for in article 149.129 (a) of the Constitution and, in the case of the Ertzaintza, in addition to the unique additional provision given the character of updating of the historical law entailed by the creation of this police, particularly in article 17.4 of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. There is only one exception that I am not very sure you have quoted, which is the statement of the states of alarm and siege, where there is the possibility of dependence on the autonomous police and even on the integrals of the General Administration, whether military or civilian; both circumstances may occur. This national security system, which you establish, will force the autonomous police to become directly dependent on the State administration, as a result of the provisions contained in Title V of the Act on the contribution of resources to national security. Thus, it is stated that the organization of this contribution will be the responsibility of the National Security Council, a body of strictly State composition, and that the Government, by royal decree, will approve the declaration of resources for national security, which will include the relationship of human and material means, both public and private, that can be used for the situation of interest for national security provided for in this law. What situation of interest? You, as situations of interest, have provided for all actions of a public nature that can be carried out by means of that all-encompassing definition of national security that you have carried out in article 1 of the law itself that I have read before, all of them. That is to say, in all cases there is the latent danger, there is the permanent danger of an absorption of the competences and other means of the Basque Autonomous Community and the rest of the communities, personal, material and, in the case of the Ertzaintza, a dependency arising from the authorities of the State Administration under the royal decrees and under the provisions of the National Security Council and under the discretionary decisions of the President of the Government himself. The Gernika Autonomy Statute, Vice-President, establishes - and you have invoked much coordination and cooperation, although it is purely rhetorical - the relations between the Ertzaintza and the State Security Forces and Bodies, the Ministry of the Interior and the Euskadi Security Department are carried out through the Security Board, as you know. Here, the Security Board, when an interest in national security is concerned, disappears, its functions disappear, as does the organic dependence of the Ertzaintza of the Basque Government and the Department of Security. In short, everything that is provided for in this matter disappears, but it does so by virtue of the exorbitant powers attributed to the State administration. All acts and competences that belong to any autonomous community may disappear. A definition, that of national security, such as the action of the State aimed at protecting the freedom and well-being of citizens - something more generic and more universal than this can not be defined, Madam Vice-President -; to guarantee the defence of Spain and its principles and values and constitutional - something more omnipresitive and universal cannot be defined, Madam Vice-President - as well as to contribute, together with our partners and allies, to international security in the fulfilment of the commitments made. In short, the latent danger under these exorbitant powers attributed to the Government, which is a latent and permanent danger because a crisis situation, first, is defined by the General Administration of the State, the President of the Government and the National Security Council, can occur whenever it is desired, on an arbitrary or non-arbitrary basis, in an absolutely discretionary manner, and this allows for the absorption of all material means, of all personal means of the autonomous communities and of all the powers of the autonomous communities, which may be centralized or absorbed by the General Administration of the State and particularly by the President of the Government. If that is not a violation of the operative principle on which the construction of the autonomous state itself is based, please explain it to me. Because, in the absence of a clear definition of the assumptions of crisis management and of the situation of national security interest, we might find ourselves arbitrarily seeking by the State Administration to disrupt the constitutional scheme of distribution of competences by invading the autonomy of other institutions under a hypothetical or diffuse threat that seems to have a permanent character. You have not made this very clear in your speech - which, on the other hand, has been a brilliant speech, Madam Vice-President - you have spoken about all kinds of matters: environmental, economic, linked to the fundamental rights of people, to the inspiring principles of social and economic policy, to the guarantees of all kinds of citizens' rights, an absolute omnipreneurship in the very definition of what can eventually constitute national security. If the definition of what can be an interest in national security is all that he has said, which is all the powers that an institutional State can exercise, the possibilities of recovering, of rescuing all those powers when they are of an autonomous nature or exclusively of an autonomous nature are all too. From that perspective, we understand our reluctance to be able to pass such a re-centralizing law as you are presenting us here today.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u148	Your Honor, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u149	In conclusion, Mr President. We will fight with all our strength against the passing of this law. We are also surprised, as Mr Tardà said, that the Socialist Party has endorsed something that Mr Serrano will surely know that he has constitutional deficiencies, which is constitutionally very vulnerable because of the contradiction of the requirements of article 9, the most important article, because of the contradiction of the principle of normative hierarchy, because of the contradiction of the principle of legal certainty, because of the contradiction of the principle of legality and because of the vain and worthy attempt to bring constitutional principles or values into the legal system through ordinary laws. We are accustomed in this legislature, which is fundamentally characterized by its intense legislative degradation, to see many things, but, Madam Vice-President, what is impossible or we do not expect to see at the end of this legislature is to modify the Constitution through an ordinary law, or to fail to comply with the constitutional requirements as important as those stated in article 9 by an ordinary law, or, with the parsimony that you have made your speech, to talk about the possibility of ending the autonomous configuration of the State - and that is what we are talking about, in short - with a concept that does not exist constitutionally but to the one that has already given it a work of existence, so naturally speaking about the concept of national security...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u150	Your Honor, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u151	I'm done. What exists is public security, Madam Vice-President, and from that perspective, what reason did Madame Roland have when she commented before she was executed - I hope this does not happen to others in a political sense - that how many stumbling blocks and how many crimes can be committed in the name of security. Many trophelias and many crimes of a legal-formal nature in this area are being committed with this law in the name of security. I know that there is a certain paranoia for security in all the countries of the world and that it is the right time to inoculate and draft laws of this tenor and of this nature. Let us not use these values, these feelings, these collective fears of our society to violate also the constitutional order and the statutory order, the block of constitutionality, in short. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u153	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, the first thing I wanted to do is thank you for your comprehensive briefing. It is true, in Spain it is clear the need to rethink and update the concept of national security, a part of the legal system that supports this concept today is 1986, the year we entered NATO and, of course, the world and Spain have changed. Therefore, on the basis of these changes, we must update a national security strategy. Our group has tabled an amendment to the whole because this law and the Government of the People's Party that supports it and the parliamentary majority of the People's Party do not meet the objectives it claims to defend. On the one hand, to protect freedom and also to protect the well-being of citizens. Today, it is international evidence that freedom in Spain is in danger as evidenced by the laws that have hardened the Penal Code and the law that have recently been passed by the Spanish courts. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, It is not that the well-being of Spain is in danger, it is that it is on the ground, because to this it has led us to the economic suicide of the Government, that austere policy on which today an important and prominent group of famous economists say publicly that either we end it or it will end freedoms and democracy. In Spain, therefore, there is a clear danger to national security, but this clear danger has two words: the People's Party. Today the People's Party is the most serious threat to security if we understand security as freedom and well-being for our citizens. Today it is true that international security risks are obvious, but when we talk about new international security risks we must remember, memory is essential. At the time sending troops to Iraq meant the most important security threat in Spain's recent history, and we paid very dearly. It is clear that today participating in NATO's organisation, which approves the rearmament of the various countries of Eastern Europe, is a growing threat. Speaking of NATO, we must remember that the most serious case of cyber espionage that the European Union has experienced in recent years has been led by the security agencies of our ally, the United States. It is clear that no one can ensure that the agendas and contacts of the President of Germany or of the French President have been spied on by the American security agencies and neither can you, Madam Vice-President, here today assure us with certainty that the contacts that the agenda of the President of Spain, Mr Rajoy, have not been controlled by those security agencies. Today we think that from that famous text message of 'Luis, be strong' before the Spanish people laughed at the White House. That is the reality we have right now. Today it is also evidence that invading Libya, a decision taken by the Socialist Party government with the support of the People's Party, has led to a failed state that is one of the most important security threats at this time in the Mediterranean. It's a real terrorism factory, and right now we're trying to tackle the problem, but we should have thought about it before, when we created it by bombing that country. Today it is also evidence that it is a danger for security to have had a completely dubious situation in the face of the Syrian conflict and the Syrian opposition, mistaking us between the friends of Spain and the terrorists. Today Syria is a place in the world factory of terrorists who are trained militarily and politically and, Madam Vice-President, some of them return to the European capitals and we know perfectly well what they are doing. That, therefore, has also been a major strategic error in Spanish foreign policy that has reduced our security. Madam Vice-President, reducing international cooperation, as your Government has reduced in recent years, is a danger to security, because it is necessary to tackle some conflicts at their origin; conflicts based on poverty and corruption that have generated the breeding ground for jihadist extremism. Therefore, when we dramatically reduce cooperation, we reduce the elements that can undermine the basis of the problem. Madam Minister, you know that at borders it is not where the problems of immigration are solved, but they are solved at source. Obviously, at the borders we must have state security forces well prepared to prevent the Tarajal disaster from happening again, but before Tarajal we must focus on the poverty and corruption of those countries. In that his Government was doing much less than in previous years, and that was also a national security strategy. Today, reducing and rescuing Spain's diplomatic presence in embassies and consulates is also a security problem. Spain must strengthen its international presence and, therefore, the cuts make us less influential and less strong in the field of diplomacy, which is where the solutions are and not sending more and better troops. We need effectiveness as demonstrated by the Ebola crisis, which led to a minister of this Government, a minister of the Government of Spain, because incompetence is terrible when there is a medical security crisis like the one we are living in in your day. Efficacy is therefore essential. Look at whether there is work: not only passing the law, but also rectifying much of the international policies of the People's Party, because much of its policies increase security risks with the left hand, although then with this law you believe that you will solve security problems with the right hand. You can't sip and blow and you blow and sip at the same time with this bill and its policies. Minister, we must remember that freedom and security are part of an indivisible whole in a democratic society; citizen security for the enjoyment and exercise of the rights and freedoms recognized in our Constitution. Social welfare and security are complementary concepts. Effective security policies cannot exist without addressing the eradication of causes such as poverty, unemployment, xenophobia and social exclusion through comprehensive employment and social protection policies. For a security policy to be advanced, it must be integrated into a social policy that promotes the transformation of the community. In our view and modestly, we believe that security should be understood as an instrument for the establishment and maintenance of social peace, that is, for the protection and development of human, political and social rights and under conditions of equal dignity and freedom. We therefore reject the ideological concept of security in the hands of the People's Party because its security, the security that you have incorporated into this law, is insecurity for the majority of the Spanish population, even if it is security for a minority of this people. This project is deeply refocusing and has militaristic dyes. We are talking about something that was already discussed in this House when we approached the Foreign Action Act to which our group also opposed and other groups in this House. The law of external action and the law of national security cannot be excuses for a re-centralizing vision, for a vision as if some political debates in Spain were problems of internal security. The debate in Catalonia and the debate in Euskadi are not resolved with the Civil Guard, Madam Vice-President, nor with such laws. They are resolved through political dialogue. And if they are not resolved by political dialogue, they are not solved. It's a very simple thing. This law is in line with the tightening of the Criminal Code and the law on gags and is therefore a problem for freedom. The state of self-government is a reality, and even though you are polishing your re-centralizing proposal, Madam Vice-President, with the word coordination, it does not stick, and the problem is still there. Also, treating the private security sector in the same line as the international cooperation sector is not a good idea. I think the two concepts are very different things. I'm done. In the 2014 national security report we could read: We were told that there are principles and values that Spain defends and that these principles and values are in the United Nations, in the European Union and in NATO. I quote. Madam Minister, it seems that we in the United Nations could agree, but I can assure you that for a large part of the Spanish people, and it seems that for a large part of the Greek people too, the principles and values that currently govern the model of European construction and the decisions that are being taken within the framework of some European institutions, are neither principles nor shared values. But, of course, the principles and values of an obsolete organization in history, such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, are also not principles and values that we can share. So what principles and values are we talking about, Minister? Do you believe that these principles and values are the subject of consensus in Spanish society? They are not the subject of consensus. They are an ideological political model, but there are other models, other principles and other values. It is therefore a fundamental issue. Today, the current European Union and NATO do not represent us, Minister. Today, the troika does not represent us, Minister. [[the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund]] Therefore, we cannot articulate our security around principles and values that perhaps represent you. We respect that, but you can be sure that you do not represent us and do not represent a large part of Spanish society. I'm done. We shall see, Madam Vice-President, what remains of these principles and values which you defend in the next General Courts. See you later. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Xuclà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union can share and share the reasons behind this law. When it comes to talking about threats, unlike some speakers who have preceded me in the use of the word, we agree that today, in the twenty-first century, there are some threats in terms of cybersecurity, bioterrorism and the protection of critical infrastructures that did not exist a few years ago. That is a full debate that we have with the Vice-President of the Government as the head of the Ministry of the Presidency, but also as the head of the secret services. With this, there are elements that exist today and that did not exist in the past. What is happening is that we are trying to build politically and intellectually, through this bill and through the annual national security report, an integrated policy in the field of defence of public security, internal policy and external action that, today, does not exist in our constitutional system. We are asked, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, to introduce this new category of national security by means of an ordinary law with full legislative capacity in the Constitutional Commission and to ensure, through Article 22.4 of this bill, that under no circumstances will the application of this law entail the suspension of fundamental rights and public freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where our disagreement with the government begins and what motivates us to present this amendment as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against these threats, cybersecurity and bioterrorism, which I raised recently and which supports what we think, that these threats oversize, in these matters, the potential impact of fundamental rights is obvious. For us it has a point of incoherence - sought or not sought - trying to present with total normality the establishment of a category, at present constitutional, as is national security through an ordinary law and through a full legislative competence, going ahead of what is contemplated in article 9.3 of the Spanish Constitution regarding legal certainty and regarding the normative hierarchy. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if a simple and clear example of what is always explained in the Law Theory of an Indeterminate Legal Concept had to be put into law, this law is a law that is full of indeterminate legal concepts that I will try to detail during my argumentation. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, our discrepancy is based on three elements. Firstly, in the lack of precise definition and material scope of the subject matter of this national security law and in the incorporation of articles - I will refer to some of them - and of paragraphs with a clearly expansive character of this new concept of security. Secondly, in the absence of a role for Parliament, which means a lack of guarantees as long as Parliament participates in the implementation and follow-up of the precepts provided for in this law. Thirdly, an approach which seems to us to be unfortunate in terms of the cooperation - not cooperation, but the assumption of competence - of the autonomous communities by the Presidency of the Government and the authority to which material and human resources are delegated. And reference is also made to the powers of the autonomous communities. I start with our first element of discrepancy: the definition. Article 3 of the draft - I quote from the text - states: 'For the purposes of this law, national security shall mean the action of the State aimed at protecting the freedom and well-being of citizens, guaranteeing the defence of Spain and its constitutional principles and values, as well as contributing together with our partners and allies to international security in the fulfilment of the commitments undertaken'. Ladies and gentlemen, can we be sure that this definition does not fall within the scope of Article 81.1 of the Spanish Constitution, which calls for an organic law for the regulation and protection of fundamental rights and public freedoms? The reading of this article suggests that we are not faced with technicality, with the articulation of technical instruments, but with the definition of the heart of aspects that affect fundamental rights. Article 1 of this bill: 'This law is intended to regulate: (a) national security...' In any case, it would be to regulate those instruments at the service of national security, because if you directly regulate national security through an ordinary law and not an organic law you are creating a new category that is not unconstitutional, but unconstitutional - it is urgent and we will see very soon a constitutional reform, although it is not today's debate or it is up to me to enter into this matter - and that cannot be done. It cannot be done in the discount time of this legislature and through an ordinary law. We disagree, ladies and gentlemen, with the attribution to the President of the Government of exorbitant powers in relation to the declaration of the state of crisis, with the management, with the need for no justification, with the need for communication to the General Courts. Madam Vice-President, you said in your presentation that we are obliged to understand each other. How is Parliament going to deal with the government? How will the autonomous communities be understood with the Government? We are obliged to understand each other, but this is a law that does not provide for communication either to the Government or to Parliament or to the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 15 gives the President of the Government two concepts which, as he said, demonstrate the definition of an indeterminate legal concept. First, crisis management, and second, situations of interest to national defence, and in this law there is no development of what involves situations of interest to national security nor a numerus clausus, not even an approximate number of what is involved in crisis management. We are talking about alteration of normality, a widely open and indeterminate legal concept. Article 20 of this draft even speaks of cases of alteration of normality not expressly covered by this law. We have for three decades passed some security laws that end with a clause, with a final provision, that refers to future laws the regulation of crisis management cases, and in the end this law also refers to a regulatory legislative development. Another element of this law is that it writes the words potential gravity, which is an absolutely subjective, potentially subjective perception on the part of the President of the Government. The second element of discrepancy is the role of Parliament, the role of the Courts. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three mechanisms referred to in Article 116 of the Spanish Constitution which, by analogy, should at least invite us to reflect if they should not also have some comparison in this legislation. I am referring to the states of alarm, emergency and siege, developed by an organic law of 1981 and which provides for an express declaration and, in all three cases, some kind of relationship between the Government and the Courts, between the Government and Congress. This law says that under no circumstances will crisis management affect fundamental rights, but, ladies and gentlemen, the state of alarm - regulated in article 116 of the Constitution and developed in a law of 1981 - also includes a numerus clausus, a knowledge by the Congress of Deputies and a temporary limitation. Furthermore, article 55 of the 1981 Act expressly provides for a non-derogation of fundamental rights. And in the state of alarm, which does not provide for the suspension of fundamental rights, there is a communication to this Parliament. The state of emergency requires the prior approval of Congress and the state of siege, the prior declaration by the Courts. The third element I wanted to refer to is how this law ends. I believe that this law must be committed to the pact, to dialogue, to modification and to rewrite it. You have an absolute legitimate majority with which you can end the law with the same wording, but I believe that this is a law that invites a remarkable rewriting in some of your precepts to which I have referred, specifically those on the definition, material scope, participation and role of Parliament and also on the way this law approaches the autonomous communities. Last week I had the opportunity to share a pleasant conversation at a dinner with a former Spanish President of the European Parliament, who told me that the first ministers of the European Union meet at least once a month and sometimes, when cases like this month happen, twice a month. In Spain, the presidents of the autonomous communities met for the last time in 2012 and the autonomous communities will be aware of something that clearly affects their competences in the area of security and civil protection at least through this bill. I insist, perhaps this is a political reflection not linked to a specific article of this law, but I think it is relevant what the former President of the European Parliament said last week, that in the European Union the prime ministers meet once a month and if necessary twice a month; in Spain the presidents of autonomous communities do not meet since 2012. In Spain, the Autonomous Communities are informed by the State Official Gazette of a draft law which provides that human resources, material resources and powers are available to the competent authority which may designate the President of the Government for crisis management. A clear assumption is made of the competences of article 28, in which it is equated - and this is very relevant, because yesterday, in the debate of another bill, we saw the same philosophy - to autonomous communities and local entities with the private sector. Yesterday in the Development Commission we discussed the road law and in the road law there are autonomous communities and local authorities as civil society. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case and in this law the unilateral assumption - the decision by the President of the Government and the Council - of powers in the field of security and civil protection cannot be done as envisaged in Article 28 by placing the autonomous communities and local authorities at the same level as the private sector. Article 27 refers to the legislative development of some very relevant aspects of this law that you want to pass as an ordinary law and, it is a law that potentially affects fundamental rights, and that in any case requires comprehensive development. This is a law which affects autonomous competence and which, in the case of the Catalonian Autonomy Statute, directly affects Articles 164 and 132 concerning security and civil protection. The spokesman who spoke before me has said this: this is his model of relationship between the central Government and the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a different model and that is why we have tabled an amendment as a whole. Mr. President, I'm done. We have talked about articles, we have talked about mechanisms, we have talked about guarantees, but most importantly, Madam Vice-President, unlike other groups that have tabled amendments to the whole we share the Government's concern about new threats; however, we do not want through an ordinary law that says that in no case does it affect fundamental rights, we can regulate this sensitive matter and this matter that the Government raises to us in time of legislative discount from the parliamentary legislature. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Madam Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u157	With the help of the President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking very briefly to try to address or clarify some of the issues raised by the advocates of the amendments as a whole. First, I would like to thank all those who have demonstrated the assessment of the new risks and threats that justify this law. Despite the discrepancy so great that it may imply the presentation of an amendment to the whole, I welcome the fact that some of the groups - not all of them - consider that at this time there are risks and threats to the Spanish population that must make us reflect on the way we approach it. Secondly, there have been a number of different issues raised here that I will try to sort out, I hope I will not forget any and if the forgetfulness does not consider it a lack of courtesy but rather of incompetence. It was said that the concept of national security does not exist in our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many concepts that do not exist in our Constitution because it was born in 1978 and some of the risks and threats we address here have changed a lot and some did not even exist. There are, therefore, many margins for us to be able, within the framework of our Constitution and respecting its fundamental principles, to regulate certain issues such as this. But if you want for your tranquillity of constitutional attachment I give you one: our Constitution obliges us to bear in mind on the one hand the international conventions that our country subscribes to - Article 10 - and we are integrated into the whole of the European Union in an area of assignment of competences. If the European Union is defending these broader concepts of defence and security, it is a very important element in being able to act within our constitutional framework. Another aspect raised by your ladies and gentlemen - as you have been very insistent on giving them a full answer - is whether this should be an organic law or an ordinary law. There will be no debate that I like more, but I will try not to expand. When we drafted this law as the President of the Government we also had that doubt, I acknowledge that. We also wondered what regulatory rank the norm had to have. And when we presented it to the Council of State we considered that the rule itself was ordinary, but we had the doubt whether certain precepts, some of which have been cited by their lords, should contain the character of organic law. That is how we bring it up to the Council of State. What did the Council of State tell us, to which we respect very much? He said so unanimously, and I read the names of the rapporteurs because for some parliamentary group it can be interesting. The Council of State, with the votes of Mr Romay Beccaría - President -; Lavilla Alsina; Rodríguez-Piñero and Bravo-Ferrer; Herrero and Rodríguez de Minón - Mr Olabarría -; Ledesma Bartret; Aza Arias; Manzanares Samaniego; Fernández de la Vega Sanz; Alonso García; and Hernández-Gil Álvarez-Cienfuegos - Secretary - unanimously said: The rule, whose preliminary draft is submitted for opinion, is because of its content a law of a non-organic nature, since it regulates national security from a markedly organizational and inclusive perspective without affecting the regulation of fundamental rights and public freedoms. It may be that you - Mr Olabría and Mr Xuclà, who have been the most insistent - do not benefit from the legal science of these rapporteurs of the Council of State, but since we had these doubts, we have raised them. The absolute majority of the People's Parliamentary Group has been mentioned. This is a matter that we have discussed with some groups in this House and on which we have worked in common agreement with the Socialist Party. You know the number of Members of this House and the support our group has. The problem is that it's passed by organic law? For us it is no problem, it is not; but we want to do things right and we pay attention to the Council of State. Mr Olabarría, let me tell you that the relationship between an organic law and an ordinary law is not hierarchical, it is not a question of one law being more guarantor or being above the other. The Constitutional Court has made this very clear: it is a matter of competence, that a rule, if it regulates some of the aspects that our Constitution points out that may affect, among other issues, fundamental rights and public freedoms or the regulation of certain State institutions, by reason of competence, is made by organic law; and if it does not affect the points of article 81 of the Constitution or other points that appear to be disseminated by the constitutional text, the law must be ordinary. What have the Council of State and these rapporteurs told us? That, despite our doubts, our preventions, that we wanted to do things in the best possible way, we didn't have to adopt a norm - I don't say it in its entirety - organically, not even untie some of its precepts. [[The lady]] Much emphasis has been placed on competences. Looking around on these issues is always good. In the ranking of decentralized states in the world we are the second or third. Do you know which one's first? Canada. Canada has a council and a law of security of this nature and I don't think we can face who we are more or less decentralized because we are increasingly on the same page. As the Council of State says, it is an inclusive and organizational law, and essentially an organizational structure of the State. I have come to this rostrum because this law affects practically all the ministries that are sitting on the blue benches of this House, apart from my own powers. Why? Because it is an integral vision and we impose on ourselves the obligation to coordinate from a higher point of view. Don't worry. There will be no impairment of your powers and, if there were, I have full assurance that you would denounce it immediately and take it to the Constitutional Court - on the other hand, as we do -. This is how an autonomous state as decentralized as ours works. I have had to manage various crises throughout my political-administrative career and I have always missed something that this law regulates and that seems important to me. I don't think it's a competitive impact, it's a catalogue of the human and material resources Spain and the autonomous communities have to deal with a crisis of any kind, and we can talk about a fire, a maritime, environmental crisis. What good is it to know - then I will tell you an example - what elements the country has in order to deal with it? Then it will be used by any competent Administration, but at least it's good to know. I followed with interest your debate, which raised with the Ministry of Defence, on certain vaccines in bioterrorism, which you are very interested in. Let me use your own argument. You said: It is necessary to encourage the purchase of certain vaccines - money to put by the state itself - for what? So that the autonomous communities can have such vaccines. It would be good to know what availability we have for vaccines, because we can have a bioterrorism crisis - that is the example you have given me, in order not to invent one - and we must respond to it; for a well-organized State that respects everyone's competences - in this House we have debates about how the State has to make certain acquisitions of resources to respond to those threats - to know what it has. If it is not more or less; it is that in a crisis situation - you have talked about bioterrorism - we can know what vaccines the Spanish health system has. And I'm going to have to tell you here what the Ministry of Defence has and what Ceuta and Melilla have, which are my skills, and you, at best, the only thing you'll have to give is the number of those you have. Is that affecting autonomy or is it making information available to all of us, to ourselves, to you and to us about what the country has to deal with a crisis of this nature, ladies and gentlemen? When there were environmental crises in this country, there was not even a catalogue of the means that civil protection systems had to prevent pollution from reaching the coast: skimmers, barriers and the like. Is it to affect the competences of one and the other that you say and that I say and that the autonomous communities point out to the municipalities what elements they have and what they can make available to everyone when it comes to securing the life, Your Honor, of Spanish citizens regardless of where they reside? We are talking about a much higher good; we are talking about that citizens who are immersed in a crisis of any nature don't have to think: Let's see if I'm lucky, that whoever is competent has those means, because as I catch myself badly located to the best of these I don't get out as I thought. That is what this is all about, ladies and gentlemen, and if you have it and you propose amendments, we will try to resolve it. Many questions of militaristic dyes, of NATO, have been discussed here. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, you who so much like to consult, there was a referendum - I believe, Your Honor - on this subject; I think there was; citizens have spoken democratically, as you say. That's right, you can think about it again whenever you want. [[Applauds]] I'll even show you another incoherence. He comes to tell me: you have the foreign service... We are trying to reinforce it with the call for new places; at the same time it tells me that we are not doing our foreign action policy well, it tells me that for what we have passed a foreign action law. Well, to do it well, Your Honor. Agree, do we have to do foreign policy or not? He has also pointed out to me a couple of issues which, as they are linked to this issue, I would like to point out. You have spoken about immigration and this is an issue I also want to talk about in this House. I fully agree that the approach to the treatment of immigration policy - and I am pleased that it was initiated by a People's Party Government in 2000 and continued and strengthened in 2006 and continued - is a comprehensive immigration policy that fosters cooperation with countries of origin and transit and return policies. So much so, Mr Nuet, that Spain's position in the last European Councils and in the JHA before these discussions is that Europe has a similar policy, that there is a special programme of return, that we make from the European Union a policy of development cooperation and, at the same time, we try to order that return to the countries of origin. Why, Your Honor? Because it's about avoiding the effect called. Why? Because it only benefits the mafias, those who trade with human beings, those who care very little about their lives and much about the money of those who cross the Mediterranean, and rather the Atlantic - some of us know it well - to get a better quality of life. You speak of social policies and of course that social cohesion is a security policy and also the maintenance of the welfare state, only that some - there I will give you reason - we understand it in a different way; we try to make those expenses pay, because the only way to guarantee the welfare state in the future is to pay what has been committed in the past, Your Honor. We must make an economic policy that will enable Spain to grow, among other things, with a certain improvement in its public accounts, because if we do not grow up, jobs are destroyed; if people do not pay their social security contributions or taxes are destroyed; and if taxes and contributions are not paid, Your Honor, unless you do magic - which I do not know how to do and I would like to do - neither education nor health nor pensions can be maintained. If we have done this economic policy it is because we have wanted to do the best social policy that a country can have, that is to grow, that is to have citizens have a job, that is to pay their taxes and their contributions because it is the only way that I can think of, in addition to having a decent quality of life that gives any citizen the job, to maintain that quality of life and the welfare state that we all Spanish people pay with our taxes. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, it is good to be able to say today that Spain, with regard to what we are living with other countries of the European Union, is a country in which citizens are beginning to see that it is starting to grow, in which people are beginning to find a job - still only 600,000 and we will have to work to make it 3 million - but those citizens are in a better position. These citizens can start thinking about a hope for the future, these pensioners can collect their pension and spend it entirely if they want and do not have to queue up in cashiers. This is what we have achieved in this country: to avoid a rescue, to heal our system, to make reforms and to gain credibility in the world. [[Applauds]] Mr Tardà, something else was being discussed in this House today. I understand that, perhaps, you don't care or see or do the debate beyond your own environment, but today we were talking about many issues that also concern you, and you have to be especially busy, it is in Catalonia, despite your speech. It has no doubt that this Government will try to protect the safety of citizens when there is a risk. We can talk about many of those risks, don't be afraid at all. Although all the debates you have in this House are the same, this is not the same. I do not think that in the United Kingdom when they adopted a national security system they were worrying about what you were worried about when you spoke in the House; I do not think so, and if it serves you for one thing, it serves you for another. Those are the rules of the debate. We are talking about the risks of Western democracies and many others in the world. We are talking about citizens, regardless of where they live and what they vote - because unlike you, I consider all votes very respectable - being able to feel protected in their life and freedom. It does not turn large debates into more local debates. Today's debate is a debate. For its peace of mind, the National Intelligence Centre only agrees to intercept communications with judicial authorization. Rule of law. [[Applauds]] That was passed in a law in this Parliament and this is being done. Don't worry, Mr. Tardà, about your private conversations, I would worry more about what you say publicly in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u158	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Groups who want to intervene for a period of five minutes. Mr. Tardà? [[Pause]] Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u159	Thank you very much, Madam President. It won't take five minutes, or maybe it will. Madam Vice-President, I quote Mr Herrero de Minón as a reference to authority. Mr Herrero de Minón has never been one of my party, he has been one of yours; another is the recognition that we profess to him in relation to his reflections on historical rights. Among these reflections is one that should be taken into consideration; read this from the work of Herrero de Miñon: his arbitrary unavailability by the General Administration of the State. This is what we are talking about in this bill, Madam Vice-President. For you, the realization of a historical right such as the existence of the Ertzaintza, is subject to the availability of absorption of its competences, the expoliation of its competences on which it depends organically - the Department of Security of the Basque Government - by the President of the Government, by virtue of an arbitrary option or governmental declaration made by the latter and endorsed by a state council - the National Security Council -, which does not require substantiation. Are you going to try to convince me, Madam Vice-President, that a provision, an attribution of powers to the State administration over exclusive autonomous powers does not require an organic law but a constitutional reform? We are not asking for even an organic law, we demand a declaration or a constitutional reform. With an all-encompassing declaration of the concept of national security, on which all-inclusive interests can be linked - freedom, the well-being of citizens, the defence of Spain, constitutional principles and values, all without exception - as well as with the contribution, together with our partners and allies, to international security in the fulfilment of the commitments undertaken, he is talking about the full capacity of a State to act without exception of any kind. All this, as long as there are interests concerning national security, can be absorbed and expropriated to the autonomous communities through a discretionary governmental decision of the President of the Government endorsed by a state body, such as the National Security Council. She talks to us after coordination and collaboration and, of course, there are new threats, but these new threats, with which we are living, are mutants, are volatile, are fluctuating and cause certain legitimate collective paranoia, cause us fear, Madam President. However, that does not legitimize you to incorporate constitutional concepts through ordinary laws, but neither to incorporate either you or this institution, in which we are all representing, incorporate constitutional concepts through organic laws, which prohibit article 81 of the Constitution and article 9, principles of normative hierarchy, principles of legal certainty and principle of legality. If what you want to do is to have the power of the President of the Government, by his Government, to have the operative principle on which the autonomous configuration of the State is based, you have to amend the Constitution. Dare and do it. I'll see you there. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u160	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. Mr Nuet, you will have to wait because Mr Tardà has just told me that he did not understand me and that he wishes to intervene. Go ahead, Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u161	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, I believed that you gave the floor to other parliamentary groups which had not tabled an amendment in its entirety; in any case, thank you for your attention. I would like to thank the Vice-President - in fact, I thank her very explicitly - that from the rostrum she has said that no one has to suffer for anything, that is, that neither the deputy with fewer political positions nor any political leader of any democratic institution has to suffer or suspect that they may have been subject to espionage. It is clear that this and, above all, that I have said it from the rostrum and that I have said it with this roundness. This is very important because it is true that in other States this has happened. It does not happen here because the Vice-President has said that it is only possible to do so legally, that is, through a judicial mandate. As in other democratic states, even some more advanced than ours, I think it makes sense for one to be concerned. - We have also asked questions in writing, the Government will answer them. Secondly, I understand that you accuse us - in quotes - that we care only about our own. Look, it's possible, we're a small country and what we're living now is perhaps the most important thing we've lived in centuries. After three hundred years of Spanish assimilationism and having lost national freedoms, we are now in a situation where it may be possible to achieve full sovereignty. I know that for you this is nimius; for us, that we are a small country and we are few, it is very but very important. Then let me apologize for our expansion, for being so expansionist in the debates, because we played the future of our country after centuries of resistance. With this law on November 9 it would not have been possible, so you will understand that we suffer for this instrument which is certainly not threatening to you but for us it may be. In any case, I end with the words with which I started this second intervention: thank you for saying from the rostrum that in the Spanish State it has never been committed, and now even less, espionage to elected officials or social leaders. This is very reassuring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u162	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. Now yes - and excuse - Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, first of all, I thank you for your answers. Secondly, several things: you said that we all agree that there are risks to Spain; right, but that's like saying that by day the sun rises and by night the moon rises. What we do not agree with is your conception of the speech of fear, Madam Vice-President, because for us security does not mean only risks and threats, it is much more, which is what I have tried to explain in my speech. I like to be listened to by the Council of State, especially when the reports of the Council of State on the Law on Transparency and the Law on External Action kept them in the last drawer of their table and did not listen to them; therefore, we must be tough and mature, Madam Vice-President, with the Council of State. Thirdly, you say that there is no recentralisation. I'd like to believe it, but when we listen to your Home Secretary, we can't do it. Because the Minister of the Interior has despised the collaboration on national security issues of the Ertzaintza and the Mossos d'Esquadra, which I remind you are constitutional police. Fourthly, as far as the referendum is concerned, I was able to vote in that referendum, but do you know what you won in the referendum? Do you remember? That we were not part of NATO's military structure, and today we are part of the neck, Madam Vice-President. And that there would be no nuclear weapons on Spanish soil, and today Rota and Morón are targets of international terrorism because they are nuclear bases nuclearized by the United States. That is what I also vote for in the referendum and you do not comply, therefore, with the referendum until you win. I'm done. You were talking about economics, but I don't have time to talk about economics. However, throughout the world you are known by the government of the tax amnesty, of the 30,000 defrauders whom you have forgiven and allowed a silver bridge for their reintegration into legality because they were that: defrauders. It is clear: your safety is a security for a few, even though you repeat machaconically that your safety is the safety of everyone, but it does not hang, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u164	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, a few brief comments following your reply - and a detailed reply - to some of the approaches I have made to you. You invoke the unanimous report of the Council of State which is absolutely relevant in this debate, but I insist that there is a very important difference between the first part of your intervention that makes this law rest and justify in threats to international security. It has cited biosecurity, it has cited bioterrorism - thanks for following this debate -, it has cited critical infrastructures, states of crisis, assumption of competences of the autonomous communities, and that all this has nothing to do at a certain point in the management of crises with an affectation of fundamental rights when expressly this law, without anyone having asked it, in Article 19.3 says that in no case - excuse not small, perhaps - will it have an affectation of fundamental rights. Madam Vice-President, we are in the discrepancy of perception, and nothing more than perception, but it seems difficult to me. I very much agree with Mr Olabarría that this new category is not unconstitutional or unconstitutional and that the constitutional mutation, through which you present us with the constitutional entrapment, would require a constitutional amendment, a constitutional adaptation because obviously Article 81 of the Spanish Constitution has something to do with the object of this law. Second aspect. I have talked about indeterminate legal concepts and I have given you some examples. The law provides that the President of the Government has absolute power, together with the Council, to activate the mechanisms of this law in cases of crisis management and, second, in a situation of interest to national security. The assessment of situations of national security interest as an indeterminate legal concept is based on a law school manual. Madam Vice-President, we agree with the definition of numerus clausus with a last paragraph of 'and other cases not foreseen', but there is no categorical approach to potential situations of interest. This is a law that has in its wording expressions as potential gravity and assumptions of alteration of normality not expressly contemplated in this law. I have told you that we are going to table amendments to improve the wording, and I hope that some of them can be the basis for the agreement and the amendment and the perfection of this wording. Third consideration, on competences. I think it's been very graphic - because sometimes the verbal language is very graphic. Madam Vice-President, you bear the brunt of the coordination of the Government - when you have pointed out the whole picture from the rostrum, you said: I have to coordinate this law involving this entire government. In our vision of this law, this law involves the entire government, but it also involves the health advisers of the autonomous communities not sitting in this first row, very modest people, such as the general directors of Civil Protection of the autonomous communities who are not sitting in a semicircle and to whom their way of coordinating them is to communicate to them that their competences are subsumed within the authority of the council, the president and the authority to which they delegate. Yes, expropriation, not cooperation, expropriation of competences without dialogue or integration bodies of the Autonomous Communities. Madam Vice-President, we are also going to put forward amendments in this regard. You've talked about effectiveness. A few weeks ago, I talked about the need to coordinate vaccines. All right, let's coordinate the advisors, the purchase, the ministry, their skills and the skills of the communities, but to coordinate crisis situations, in addition to coordinating the blue banks, you must keep in mind the work and experience of three decades - thirty-five years - of self-government of the autonomous communities. I conclude, Madam Vice-President, by saying that among the three elements of the objection I have also spoken to you about Parliament's lack of involvement. I have made the analogy with Article 166 of the Spanish Constitution and the states of alarm, exception and site, and I have expressly reminded you that the 1981 law in its Article 55 provides that the state of alarm in no case will affect fundamental rights and public freedoms and, despite that, there is a communication to Parliament. I ask you a very direct question in this last speech: Do you think we have to focus on the processing of this law without considering or considering the involvement of this Parliament beyond the creation of the Congress-Senary Joint Commission for Security Matters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u166	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u167	Thank you very much. I will speak very briefly, Your Honor, to thank all the speakers for their comments and contributions. I just want to point out that we are open to these amendments, as we have been during the previous debate in this House. Just as we include the National Security Sectoral Conference at the request of the Generalitat de Catalunya, we are prepared to analyse its amendments in order to reinforce or clarify the points that concern you and to work to find an agreement on a matter that for us and I believe that for the whole of Spain is very relevant. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u168	Thank you, Madam Vice President. On a position-setting basis, first of all, by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u169	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President of the Government, we have experienced a sort of fiction this morning during the debate on these amendments as a whole. During many of the speeches it seemed that we were in a fundamentally legal debate. It seems to my group that the debate on this law that has emerged here is a substantially political debate. We are talking about politics with capitals and the question of national security is a matter of politics with capitals. Of course it has legal derivations, it would lack more!, but the debate is political and must be a political debate of importance and height. The second issue that has also been raised during much of the debate and which my group and I have been particularly concerned about is its shift towards competences. In my opinion, discussing national security is much more than discussing competences. In a State like ours, with a broad political decentralization that no one has to question - if in any way the law has something to correct from the point of view of the vagueness of the texts, it will be corrected and some amendment will be formulated by us - debate on national security is not a matter of competence. It is a matter of the competence of the State to respond to the challenge and problems and to ensure the safety of citizens. I am drawn to some perceptions raised with suspicion or fear that the State will have instruments to ensure the safety of its citizens. Do you know any serious democracy in the world where the state has no instruments to guarantee the security of all its citizens? There is no serious country that does not have the tools to ensure the safety of its citizens. Of course, we must adapt to new problems, to new situations and to new challenges, but from the perspective that it is not under discussion that the State must have instruments to guarantee security. The State is all of us; it is the central government, it is the autonomous communities and it is the municipalities. Everyone has different competences, but I insist that the competence is the competence of the State as a whole. Can anyone understand that there may be competences in the municipalities, that there may be competences in the autonomous communities, that they have and that we are not reviewing them, of course not from my perspective, and that the State is denied the ability to have them and to exercise them without going beyond the scope of the Constitution? Can this debate also be raised from an exclusive perspective: freedom or security? At this stage, there can be no debate on freedom or security. They are not antagonistic terms, they are complementary, both are necessary and have to coexist with the two. What do you mean, no? It seems obvious, but as the debate has gone, it is worth remembering that exercising rights in democracy is exercising them with security, because only if they are exercised with security, without fear, can one live in freedom. Freedom and security go hand in hand. There's no way to separate them. Anyone who does not want to see it that way and anyone who wants to raise the debate in legal terms, in competitive terms, is forgetting the essentials: that we are debating here about the competence of the State to guarantee the safety of all Spaniards and what we have to do to guarantee the safety of all Spaniards, without fear. To guarantee those rights and to exercise them freely, we need to be sure that the State protects rights, and that is why new instruments must be put in place in the face of new circumstances and situations. It is quite elementary and quite obvious, from our point of view. That's what we have to prevent. Prevention is essential. Having material and human means is absolutely fundamental. Knowing how all institutions have the means and what instruments they have, is also essential. It's essential. Remember the Emergency Prevention Unit, that super-important, super-important military unit, nobody discusses it, but there's a problem. What's the point? That in order to act it needs the autonomous communities to ask, sometimes there are emergencies and it cannot act. Do we also want that to happen in the face of other national and international security problems? No, right? That nobody wants that, that we want to have the guarantee that because of a competitive problem, political with tiny, terminological, partisan, does not stop acting with all the instruments that you have when there is a real emergency? Of course, the emergency needs to be better defined. Many of these issues need to be defined in the law. We must not leave everything to the Rules of Procedure, and we will be drafting amendments to that effect. Of course, the Congress of Deputies must have more capacity to control intervention and knowledge. There is a need to ensure greater capacity for this Congress and that the Government must commit itself to reporting to Congress and to reporting and listening in seventy-two hours, in a short period of time. Of course we have to organize ourselves better in that sense. But to discuss at this point whether new challenges do not require new actions and whether or not the Government has to have competence, in addition to other State institutions, to ensure the security of all Spaniards, is to divert attention and be afraid to act as a serious country, as a rigorous country and as a country concerned about the security of all its citizens. That is why our parliamentary group has not tabled an amendment in its entirety. It seems to us that the project comes to meet specific security needs. We believe that there is too vague terminology, that there are some concepts used in the project that can lead to legal uncertainty. We believe, as I have just said, that the Government must report to the General Courts on the declaration of a situation of interest to national security and that it must do so within a very short time. We believe that the Courts must have greater jurisdiction and control, that all this can be arranged in the course of partial amendments. I hope and hope that the Government will be sensitive to some of the recommendations that have been made here, including by some of the members who have tabled amendments to the whole, and I believe that a good law must come out that responds to the needs of the country, understanding as a country the needs of all citizens. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you my speech, simply because you have asked me why the Socialist Group has not tabled an amendment in its entirety and I will try to explain it from this point on. I shall begin by announcing my group's vote against the amendments in their entirety that have been tabled to the draft law under discussion. We are doing so by reason of coherence, by sense of responsibility and also by not sharing the fundamental thesis which, in our view, is contained in one way or another in the amendments made. I'll start with consistency. Tomorrow a long debate on the 2013 national security strategy took place within the Constitutional Commission, which was presented that day by the Government at the mouth of Mr Moragas. On that occasion, the Socialist Group openly expressed its positive opinion on it because it believed that it was a useful tool for modernizing the security of the country, the security of its citizens. That view was based not only on the fact - which was important to me too - that this 2013 strategy presented itself as a continuation of that which the Government, chaired by José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero, had approved in 2011, but also because in the last process of its adaptation we had a good joint work to polish the final wording, and I think we were all satisfied with that result. But he was more interested in us and also in the government party, which was then concluding a path that began a few years before we were in line with modernity in this area. That was what they had done a few years before we, the United States, France, the United Kingdom or, by the way, the European Union itself, which, with Javier Solana's help, approved the European security strategy in 2003; a small reference to this. The strategy, both in its unborn version of 2011 and in its formalized version of 2013, included the announcement of a future national security law aimed at updating already obsolete rules - the law that exists in 1986 - on the subject and adopting administrative structures in a new vision of national security, which must be comprehensive and which, therefore, not only juxtaposes but combines classic elements of security: national defence, public security, external action or, in our country - it is worth highlighting because it is important - the civil protection system in the face of emergencies and disasters. Each and every one of these instruments has its peculiarities, its specific organization, its procedures of action and decision-making, but each and every one of them, today, must be in a position to respond in an integrated and coordinated manner to crises that require the conjunction of all or several of them. That is what, in our view, must contain the national security law; and, in our view, it has it; with problems, but it has it. That's why we agree with her. We agree that a national security law should be drawn up and brought to this House. It also responds, as I said, to a sense of responsibility. If something can be recognized to the Socialist Party - always with difficulties, because this seems to be the rules of the game - from both the opposition and from the government, it is that we have defended that there are matters of the organization of collective life that deserve the effort to remember among all or most of the political agents, of which from time to time someone who likes grandiloquence calls politics of state. We have done so with matters of defence, security, counter-terrorism, external action, etc. An agreement has not always been reached, but we have always tried. I'll mention some recent things, and some of them reminded Mrs. Díez a few minutes ago. Years ago we launched an instrument that fits well with this modern conception of national security, which was the Military Emergency Unit, an invention that was first detested by some, but ask citizens today whether or not they agree that the Spanish State - I correct myself, with which Spain - has equipped itself with an instrument of these characteristics. This sense of responsibility has also recently led us to propose first and then to sign the jihadist Counter-Terrorism Pact. Finally, the recent attacks of this kind that have taken place in different countries prevent me from having to insist on the direction of this initiative, but not on the renunciation of inviting the rest of the groups to join it again. It is a sense of responsibility that with the same intensity, by the way, to talk about some things that have emerged in the debate, leads us to criticise the excesses, that we have denounced, that in our opinion has the Law on Citizen Security, such as considering that a modern country worthy of that name must have a security system sufficiently articulated to provoke the necessary automatism in the activation of the resources of the State when there is a certain risk of threat to its security or there has already been a real attack on it. In the bill that is being presented, as I say, there are matters that are well settled in our opinion, however much - I am announcing - we are going to introduce partial amendments, of course to solve drafting problems. I have spoken to some of those who have been interlocutors with me in this process - even in the rostrum - and it turns out that in eight pages of the Bulletin of Congress 144 times appear, except error because I do not know if it is 145, the expression national security. It is exhausting, produces endless repetitions and annoying tautologies, but you can talk about more serious things. We need to clear up some uncertainties that some of us have about the enforced safeguard in the regulation of states of alarm, exception and site. An effort must be made to define it well and clearly incorporate an appeal for the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens as a specific and priority objective of national security. A simple scheme of organization of the system must be designed and some important task must be done to combine what is stated in a precept of the project: that situations of national security concern are confronted with the ordinary powers and means of administration, and then, without any nuance, the possibility of recourse to the claim of human and material resources is envisaged. But, I insist, this is the work that remains to be done from now on and for which I announce that we are going to commit, as we usually do in these cases. I'm finishing up, Madam President. It is not my role, nor do I have time to clarify some of the specific objections that have been raised. The Vice-President has responded to many of them and I share many of their analyses, but I would like her to share the enthusiasm with the Council of State in all cases and not just in this law, because some of this I said in this very rostrum a week ago in relation to two rules of extreme complexity. I would like to repeat to Mr Olabarría something that the Vice-President has already said. This is that something is not constitutional because it is not in the text of the Constitution is a little singular. How many things in everyday life in the United States aren't in your Constitution? I'd say 99%. And in ours too, but if we have learned something from the jurists and Mr Olabarría, who rightly presumes to be, is that legal interpretation serves, among other things, to complete the voids. For this there are systematic rules that make it easy to solve this dilemma, especially when there is an article in the Constitution that no one has mentioned and it is that article 97 entrusts the Government, added - to use the leitmotiv - to the Government of the State, the defense of the State. But defense not with uppercase, no, no, with lowercase; state does appear with uppercase but defense, no. And that implies all the means, formulas, etc. that I have been referring to. [[The Lord]] I'm done. Pardon me, Mr Nuet, today we talked about the referendum on NATO, where some abstained, others voted against. I do not compare Iraq with Libya because I - which I have a good memory - remember that in Libya we went to the claim of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, an instance that seems to make some sense in the international community, and that serves something. I do not remember at this time - for once I will acknowledge a memory failure - whether it was the day before, the day after or the day when participation was decided in Libya, but in those days, Mr. Ban Ki-moon was in La Moncloa with the President of the Government. To prepare this debate I have faced the amendments and I do not know whether when in a reading - I know that for my extreme part - they deny in their amendments the competence of the State to articulate their security they are saying it seriously or it is a mere dialectic artifice, and I do not know whether I am more concerned with one alternative or the other. I have reread in these days - a little diagonally but I have reread in these days to prepare this debate - some theories of the State that were written mainly from the second half of the 19th and the first half of the 20th century, while also reflecting on the theory of law - from Kelsen, to Lawrence, passing through Heller or Pashukanis or Poulantzas, to cover the whole spectrum - and in all of them there is a point of coincidence: The first and unswerving obligation of the State is to guarantee its own security to safeguard that of its citizens. This obligation is particularly untenable in the democratic State because if that obligation disappears or fails, the result is a failed State in which the first thing that happens is the end of the freedom of its citizens and the annihilation of their rights. It is not, of course, the model of a State that the Socialist Party is willing to share and even less to protect; our model is another, that of a State that recognizes and protects in real and effective terms the freedoms and rights of its citizens and their possibilities for well-being, guarantees essential public services and puts its action, in its content and in its way of carrying it out, within the limits and procedures laid down in the Constitution, the law and the law. To the extent that the law we are debating regulates the form, procedure and limits with which the power of the State must act to guarantee collective security, it seems to us a step forward and we will therefore show our support for the draft, we will work on amendments and vote against those which, as a whole, have been tabled. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mr Nuet Pujals asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Mr Nuet, we will conclude the debate and then you ask me to speak if you consider it appropriate and, if I consider it appropriate, I will give it to you. Mrs Rodríguez-Salmones has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u173	Thank you very much, President. I had prepared an intervention in support of a law that has twenty-nine very detailed and most important articles, and I have come across a simply smaller debate. Of course, less, not even my powers, the powers of my police officers. How is it possible that talking about the security of our country and our citizens - which is the first obligation of the State and its officials - we reduce the issue to a hypothetical invasion of competences - that I assure you that it is not going to happen and we will take into account the amendments that are being tabled in this respect and will of course not be invaded - because, if you look at the various interventions, the almost basic question has been to question Article 3 of this law? Do you think it's the invading article? Do you know what this invading article says, all those who have tabled an amendment in its entirety? It says: For the purposes of this law, national security shall mean the action of the State aimed at protecting the freedom and well-being of citizens, guaranteeing the defence of Spain and its constitutional principles and values, as well as contributing together with our partners and allies to international security in the fulfilment of the commitments undertaken. Point. I insist that I am not going to go into the amendments as a whole, the Vice-President has replied to them. I believe that very well and, above all, we will take into account all the amendments that derive from this, but how can we say with what right the State is to have the power to defend my freedoms in my territory? My freedoms? My safety? This law called security has an object, which is to defend freedom, the object is freedom, constitutional guarantees. And you say: I deny the State the ability to try to defend my freedoms, those of my citizens in my territory. But how is it possible that article 3 was the most mentioned when it is an absolutely exemplary article that should appear as the first article of all the laws we make in this House? Others have simply remained forty years ago, and that is very surprising. In other words, they defend the traditional system, which means that security depends on Defence, our Armed Forces, the Ministry of the Interior and Emergency and Civil Protection. But how is it going to be today, how is there not going to be an intermediate procedure as there is in all countries? Here we have quoted the United States, Canada - the most decentralized of them - the United Kingdom, and France - which is centralizing - all. Between the state of alarm, the exception and the site, which apparently everyone likes to see this constitutional exceptionality, and the tradition of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and Civil Protection, there is nothing, there are no threats. Ladies and gentlemen, today's threats should have been the subject of this debate and how to defend ourselves from them. Are they different? Yes, they are different from those of forty years ago, unfortunately, unfortunately. They're very different from the ones we had, and I'm just saying unfortunately again. Here in the Defence Committee we have heard from the Jemad two years ago that the greatest threat to Spain and our security is the economic situation, the deficit and financial fragility. That has been said here by the head of our Armed Forces and you say that there is no novelty and that there are no sectors that endanger the security of all of us. But we have also seen Russia invade Ukraine two years ago and annex itself - with the gravity of this term - nothing less than Crimea, and all this we have accepted almost unbridled because of our energy dependence, because Europe has an energy dependency. This is not new and neither is what the Vice-President said about Daesh appearing on Mosul two years ago. What the last two years we've had, ladies and gentlemen! Nor is it new what is happening in that cemetery that is the Mediterranean, with people fleeing their wars, and we have no instruments. However, you tell me that it is worth the frame of forty years ago. Well, it'll be the only country in the world that's worth it. Ladies and gentlemen, between the state of emergency and that traditional normality this instrument is needed, and this instrument rests, first, on defending our freedoms. The amendment to the whole of the Plural Left says that they do not believe that security is indispensable for freedom, which is simply advisable and desirable. Holy shit! We believe that, yes, security is a prerequisite for our freedom. First question: freedom - I have insisted on Article 3-; second question: unity of action. But how is there not going to be unity of action? Some other intervener has said so. In what head should we say to the citizens that when we go through situations such as fires, Ebola or vaccines, there is not going to be a unit of action? How come there's not going to be an action unit? Finally: the ability to anticipate. We're gonna do all this together. And you say that we invade competences when a sectoral conference is created? Let us develop all the necessary procedures so that there is no such alarming invasion of competences; you reduce to this the gigantic problem that constitutes the new threats. There is a sectoral conference and also - they do not give it any importance - says the law that an ad hoc committee on security in Congress is set up. However, they say: What about the participation of the General Courts? But haven't you read the article? Isn't it important what we're saying? What is it then? Ladies and gentlemen, some of you, who have tabled an amendment in its entirety, have had a debate - I am sorry - less than 40 years ago on a text which respects, as the Council of State says, the Constitution, because, if not, it would rule on its unconstitutionality and its organic nature, but it has said the opposite, which respects it absolutely. I thank the Socialist Group once again for its support, because, like them now, we support them - it would be missing more - in 2008, when Mr Zapatero launched this issue and the drafting of the Solana report; we now thank you for your support in developing the security strategy and the whole system, which has been in operation for two years, but this gives him a legal form of regulation, something that was pending, because we believe it is a matter of state. Mr Serrano said that the grandiose will call it a question of State and I call it a question of State with grandioseness. Finally, we urge those who have tabled amendments to the whole to transform them into partial amendments because we are sure that we will be able to reach the maximum possible agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Rodriguez-Salmones. Mr Nuet, you have asked me to speak. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u175	Thank you, President. Mr Serrano has referred to my point and I would like to clarify this point. Mr. Serrano is well aware that what the United Nations Security Council approved was nothing more than a blockade of Libyan airspace; the Security Council did not approve of the bombing or occupation of Libya. Of course, Spain did not bomb, but it was in the operation that it bombed and occupied. Furthermore, Mr. Serrano also knows that some vetoed permanent members of the Security Council did not use that veto, convinced that airspace would be blocked and then said that they had been deceived. It is therefore good to clarify that because the Security Council approved one thing and then made another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Mr. Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u177	Fifteen seconds. There was a resolution by the United Nations and Spain that he did was to control the airspace to search for the blockade. He didn't take part in any other kind of operations. Nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u178	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u179	We move on to the amendments approved by the Senate. First, the draft organizational law on the personnel regime of the National Police. Mrs Díez has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u180	Thank you, President. Given the amendments that have been passed in the Senate, the first thing that can be said about this important organic bill is that, as is so often the case, the bill in the Senate has not been slightly changed. In fact, a large part of the amendments that have been tabled have to do with grammatical corrections. This should bring us back to a reflection: what is the Senate for? To grammatically correct the laws? To occupy surpluses? I won't go into that drift because it's worth putting it in place; you understand me, you know what we're talking about. It is a pity that it serves exclusively to make a second reading that incorporates, on most occasions, merely grammatical reforms. As we said when it was debated in Congress, both in plenary and in the Commission - our group did not table an amendment to the whole - this law was clearly improved, and when it was completed it remained clearly improved; as I have just said, it comes from the Senate also being clearly improved. A number of amendments were made to the Congress procedure, which were insufficient. The catwalk disappeared in general, but the catwalk between the Autonomous Police and the National Police did not disappear, which we find absolutely inexplicable and unjustifiable. If there is a gangway there has to be it in the double direction and if it is not an absolutely unfair, absolutely improper thing, that comes to exacerbate the difference in treatment already suffered by the National Police - also the Civil Guard, that happened in another debate - in relation to other police officers who also have very important competences, but not greater than those of the National Police. It is therefore a new element of social injustice towards the police and of lack of recognition of what their work is. We would also have liked to see a series of reforms introduced in the parliamentary process, Congress or Senate, on important issues such as linking the Police Force to the Law on Good Governance and Transparency, which was not done, despite the fact that there were several amendments in this regard; that the agents should first know their objectives, and that these are clear, concrete, objectively measurable, achievable, with available means and, moreover, given in writing. There were some amendments to that effect which were not accepted either. We also see the need for the creation of a speciality of deactivation of explosives and threats. Look, we just had a debate right now on something important and related to this issue, because we have to defend national security, but then we have to have instruments to put it into practice. In this law there was the possibility of an instrument that was rejected, and I do not know if you can now reconsider it, but, frankly, it seems to me that we have missed an important opportunity. As I said at the outset, we believe that it is necessary to guarantee an established working day and that it can only be modified - I insist on it only - by exceptional demands of the service, and that it should be compensated - neither was we paid attention to it, nor was it introduced - and adequate wages and working conditions commensurate with the competence and risks of the police. This is an old debate, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed it with the Socialist Group, we have discussed it with the People's Group, in the Commission, in plenary. It is true that, according to one of the two major groups in the Government or the opposition, we agreed with one or the other. This general, social, economic, social and labour rights discrimination between the National Police, the Civil Guard and the rest of the police, whether autonomous or municipal, is unacceptable, from any point of view unfair. We have often called - sometimes with you, Socialist Group Members, and sometimes with you, People's Group Members - for the approval of the economic, labour and social conditions of all the police. There has never been, there has always been an apology, almost always an economic apology, which is not economic. We are talking about recognition of rights, of justice, of ending a historical injustice, of approving something that is a democratic requirement and that is a pending subject of democracy. Nor has that reform been implemented in this law, as it was not done with a similar law, as I have already mentioned, referring to the Civil Guard. It is a shame that in such an important law, for such an important collective - for that collective on which we always agree to be proud of them and of their work but not when it comes to equipping them with the tools to do their job better and recognizing how they carry out their task - we have let this opportunity pass and have lost it again. On the other hand, it is a humiliation for the National Police. I am almost certain that in the People's Group, the group that supports the Government and this law, I can find many people who agree with this that I am saying, that, in fact, they have defended it with me or me with them in the past. Instead of asking Minister Montoro perhaps they should have asked the Minister of the Interior alone or the Vice-President of the Government to resolve this historical injustice and to equip the National Police with the tools and recognition they deserve. They are not medals when they have already been our shields, but instruments to do their job well and professional recognition, and that means economic resources and social recognitions. This law does not do so and, in that sense, it is an insufficient, failed law and it is a missed opportunity; lost for the police but also for this House and for this country. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. I will endorse some of what Mrs Díez said in her speech. The truth is that the amendments that the Senate brings to us are, for the most part, syntactic, grammatical corrections and not yet all the corrections are made; it returns the Senate law with some more error; that is, not even to correct all the errors serves the Upper House. However, the Group of the European People's Party, the majority group, has introduced an amendment to the Senate procedure which my group has been strongly drawn to its attention. It is the amendment not of the National Police Staff Regime Act, but of the Organic Law 2/1986, of the State Security Forces and Bodies, adding a new final fifth provision, to which the character of organic law is removed. It is the only new text that incorporates the Senate. It is a text to give the Government the possibility of regulating by specific and quasi-secret regulations - with special characteristics of confidentiality and security for information, says the text forwarded by the Senate - the personnel of the units that depend on the Secretariat of State for Security. This seems particularly serious to us. It was a law that, from our point of view, came out of Congress with important rulings, so we tabled a very important number of amendments - almost half of the amendments that were put forward by the various groups of the House to this bill came from this parliamentary group - and now it comes to us with another added issue, which is this new Senate amendment that raises the government's ability to hire more obscurantly, less transparently, the staff that will depend on the Secretariat of State for Security. It does not seem appropriate to us, it seems to us one more reason to oppose the final text of the law as it will remain. It is a law that we have already said that we do not share in principle and that we do not share in its end. Not many of the amendments tabled by our parliamentary group have been accepted; amendments have been drawn up mainly on the basis of the demands of the National Police Corps unions, especially the SUP, which we share for the most part and which we believe have an impact on a police model which my parliamentary group certainly does not share, as we have already explained in numerous debates in this House, as well as the police model maintained by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Group. I do not want to miss the opportunity to make some reference to the situation of the Civil Guard, which also comes out in the legal text. The coverage on the defence of the rights of civil guards is modified in certain judicial cases when they do so in an act of service. I do not want to stop commenting on the situation that is currently being experienced in the Civil Guard because of the numerous files that are being opened against the Unified Association of Civil Guards by the Ministry of the Interior. There have been twelve dossiers in one week, implying a situation of political and trade union persecution against the civilian guards which is not consumable in a democratic state. What is the Ministry of the Interior doing in this context? When, moreover, it deepens a dynamic of having pursued the civilian guards in a disciplinary manner and of having locked them up in a way that we do not share and that we believe is not justified, as I have already said in this House, in the 21st century. This law, which today completes its final processing and will be published in the BOE, deepens the differentiation between the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard. We have two more and more unequal bodies. Instead of working in both Houses of the General Courts for having two bodies - or at least one, which would be what some would like - more and more equalized, the text once again differentiates rights and de facto situations between the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard, something that my parliamentary group does not share because we do not share a police model that is obsolete, that is a model of the past and that in the future it should tend to be more progressive, much more integrated and that it would not seek, as has been done by this Government, more and more inequalities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u183	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Unity, Mr Guillaumes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u184	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I'll start with a personal reflection. In general, this Member likes it when discussing a bill, even if he is going to vote against, highlighting the good aspects, that there is always some. Well, it's to take away one's custom when you see that certain media outlets are the only thing you get out of it, even though you voted against the law, is the paragraph in which you spoke well of it. As this begins to be a bit repetitive, and this rostrum is very public, I take the opportunity to say so. Bad politics often generates bad journalism and we should try to make sure that bad journalism does not generate bad politics. Therefore, I will not lose my habit and if there is something good in a law, even if we vote against it, I will continue to highlight it. Whoever had to find out, I guess he's already done it. Having made this little personal confession, I have to say that this law does have good things - what we were talking about -; the whole issue of the rights and freedoms of the National Police Corps is collected and this is progress; there is a gender perspective that so far did not exist and this is not progress, and I would dare say that so far. From here I'd say things are getting worse. It's a great missed opportunity, Mr. Sixto said it here. It was a great opportunity to equate - like other laws of a military nature of the Civil Guard - to bring the security forces closer together in terms of both functions and rights and freedoms. Whatever the statement of a police force, even if one is military in character, another is civilian in character, some depend on the local administration, others on the territorial autonomous administration, there is nothing more like a police officer than another police officer; this should be evident. I have said this more than once: the role of a police officer in the administration is quite unique, it is the public official who has the most autonomy at the time of making a decision, a decision that normally in the case of arrest or the use of force implies the limitation of rights and freedoms. To find something similar to autonomy in the decision of a police officer we would have to go to the example of a social security surgeon who has a patient, to life or death, on the table. This is a policeman, and so is a civilian guard like a member of the National Police Corps, the Ertzaintza, the local police or the Mossos d'Esquadra. What would seem logical to understand, that they would have to approach, that they would have to have rights, freedoms, more homogeneous demarcated functions in the environment of what is the world of security, is the great opportunity that has been lost in this law. Our amendments were basically in this sense of trying to co-ordinate the security forces. We understand that the Spanish state - and it means time because then I'm going to have to say some other things - surely has some of the best police forces in the world. This is the case, and it is a pity that instead of motivating them, a kind of legislation that tends to demotivate them is a bad thing. As for the theme of the catwalk, other speakers have already said, this catwalk is no longer a catwalk, it's becoming, I don't know, it's like the bridge of... what's its name? I don't remember. Well, a magical bridge that runs over a rainbow that is no longer known exactly if it is a bridge or if in the end it is a leprechaun path, because this walkway started being a way for the cops to go to another body and then it turns out that it has ended up being a way for members of the Ertzaintza or the Mossos d'Esquadra to go to the National Police Corps, which is frankly surreal. This is no longer a bridge or anything, I don't know why they did it, well, I do know it and it seems pretty ridiculous to me. Here we link with the most serious of this law. In the parliamentary seat, sitting on that second chair that we see there, the minister said: this walkway will work equally between the National Police and the Civil Guard. You were here, most of you, remember? He said so solemnly, in Parliament, I do not know if you have set yourselves. They didn't even spend five minutes and started picking up the phone compulsively. I did. Mysteriously, even though the minister made a compromise, which seems so reasonable, the National Police Corps did and the Civil Guard did not? That's why I'm telling you it reminds you more of Somewhere's song over the rainbow than it does of a walkway. The minister has simply failed to comply with what he said he would do in parliamentary office, falling into an absurd situation. What the Mosses can do turns out the Civil Guard can't do it or the National Police Corps can't do it. The inference that comes from this is very alarming. We have a minister, Mr Fernández Díaz, who, one of two, either doesn't know what's going on in his house or doesn't rule in his house. Both aspects are very alarming. If it were the only clue, we'd say it could be a bad interpretation, but we've seen unsigned reports, forgery of police attestations, accusations of lies that later turned out to be truths like temples and publications in the information newspapers that are in principle kept confidentially by the police. There is a degree of disgovernment and irresponsibility in the best of cases or something worse, which is what I fear. Allow me the Latin: Who keeps the guardians? Who's watching the vigilantes? It's usually attributed to Graham Greene, The Human Factor. Liar, this is what Plato said in La República. This is 2,600 years old. Who's watching the vigilantes? I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, but what is clear in this situation is that the Minister is not; and this is very, but very alarming. A ministry such as the Ministry of the Interior must give security and tranquillity to citizens. This is what is expected of a Ministry of the Interior. Instead, we see that it generates alarmism, that the minister often remains in evidence as with what he has just said and that we do not know who is in charge and who is in charge or, if he is in charge, with what criteria. I have every doubt as to whether he's driving. In the best case scenario, as this law is a good example of things said in the parliamentary seat that are finally left in the water of drunkards, we must say that the guardians, who would be their guardians, the minister does not keep them. I can't imagine a situation more alarming than this happening in a democracy Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u185	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the Socialist Group, Mr Trevín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the final phase of the draft organic law on police personnel. The government brings us this law at the end of the legislature without trade union agreement and without a credible assessment of the economic cost involved. It's for police officers who look after our security in the streets or inside this Congress; public officials who have seen how the current government has lowered their salaries, paid them less when they fall off the flu and reduced their health benefits and social assistance. Now, as a filmmaker would say, the big lie. This law has missed an opportunity to update the rights of police officers, many of whom are already in our public service. The right to collective bargaining is merely a statement that lacks practical content and does not allow for a system of out-of-court settlement when the negotiation settles. It will review the Equality Act with regard to the introduction of a non-sexist language or measures to balance the presence of men and women in appointments and appointments. In terms of training, the Government does not legalize what it promises, it acts by lower standards that do not give stability and sows discord between the bodies, generating unnecessary inequalities, just the opposite of the objectives they claim to defend with this law. The big lie. In this of announcing a law to, theoretically, achieve a certain objective and then design it to achieve exactly the opposite, you, gentlemen of the PP, are teachers. The best example is the law that the most insecure citizen is creating and that they called the Law for Citizen Security. Most of Spain today is witnessing a new government offensive 'the street is mine'. Mr Fraga's authoritarian vehemence remains present in the PP. The so-called gag law increases the control of the Ministry of the Interior over the street, limiting its capacity as legitimate counter-power. Among other things, they approved it for the fear that you and the factual powers behind street protests had put in your body, despite the fact that they were 99.9% peaceful, according to data from the Police Directorate-General. As Don Pedro de Silva, Member of this Congress a few decades ago and President of the Principality between 1983 and 1991, would say: We already see that in Spain the so-called liberals are only because they call themselves that way; they demonstrate it with what they say and with what they do. The popular deputy of this Congress, Agustín Conde, arrogating an unknown responsibility to the rest of the House, indicated last June 15 in a media outlet: Some of the parliamentary initiatives presented by Mr Trevín had a degree of concreteness on internal matters of the body that is only explained if from within someone has supplied him with the concrete information. I mean, he accused me of being the man who knew too much. He was trying to cover the cessation of two police commissioners for having a coffee with this deputy. The Vice-President said at the previous point that the Spanish State was not spying on any Member, but her Minister of the Interior stopped two Commissioners from having coffee with me. The question is: how did they know the days, hours and places in which they met with me in the last few months? Fear is free, my grandfather used to say, and that's why they've stopped, out of fear. I fear that we Members will know too much and that this is not good for the interests of your party, because to the security of the Spanish and the rights of the police officers you are putting forward the defence of the interests of the People's Party. They make partisan use and abuse of police institutions as well. They've got their priorities turned upside down. Barcenas, the Gürtel, the illegal financing of their party and the espionage of political opponents have obsessed the ministerial dome of the Interior and have definitely marked this legislature. Their response has been to put State institutions at the service of the PP. If it is necessary to influence the Tax Agency to treat the People's Party like Caritas, it is influenced. If it is necessary to resort to confidential and discreet investigations, a political-police clique is set up that acts as a political police like the old Social Political Brigade so that, if it is one of ours, even if it does, if it can, that it does not pay. That's why we're standing on bars. According to several media outlets recently, national police officers headed to the residence of Francisco Correa, the alleged leader of the Gürtel plot, picked him up in an official camouflaged vehicle and took him to the Madrid Chief of Police. Correa, for which the prosecutor requests more than 110 years in prison, was brought into the police facilities without his entry being recorded. The second chief of Madrid, Mr. Calleja, was interviewing him for several hours in his official office, which was known by the chief superior of Madrid, who in turn had communicated it to Eugenio Pino, deputy director of the police. Mr Calleja was arrested in a fulminant way at his job when the fact was known, although said cessation gives the feeling of being a genuine paripé, because on later dates this commissioner was promoted to the second head of the economic and technical division, with an annual economic supplement of 26,810,42 euros. Like the gendarme of Casablanca at the time of ordering the closure of Rick's Café: What a scandal, what a scandal, I just found out that this coffee is played! Lock it up, lock it up! What purpose do you think it could have for a Commissioner to meet for hours with the main defendant of Operation Gürtel, in which a large number of members of the People's Party are also involved? And now, in order to perpetuate their political police, they are calling more places of chief commissioners than jobs exist for them. With this law, instead of entering this category only by selective antiquity, as it has always been, it is possible that it can also reach only two years of antiquity by competition-opposition, passing ahead of other commissioners with ten or twelve years of experience. Why and why do they do so if only 61 of the 150 Commissioners currently hold specific posts at their level? They also seem to plan to convene, taking advantage of this new law and before leaving the Government, 50 new senior commissioner positions. This is why the current Government is trying to co-sponsor the highest police hierarchy with related officials and, in addition, to give satisfaction to these commissioners. The political favors that are asked of some must be paid for. The problem is that they are not easily paid with honor and that we are paid by the government, we pay them all Spanish with a clear erosion of the police public service and an increase in salary costs, for retired red medals, for example. They have no room for granting them to senior police officers who intervened in investigative proceedings to opponents of the current Government. Or in others that came very well to the problems of the People's Party with any of the causes about corruption or illegal financing of their party. Or those responsible for moving Lola, the minister's bitch. However, without them, many policemen who kick the streets with actions in their existence that we can call heroic. Finally, I would like to point out a modification of the Senate introduced in a final provision which gives rise to the total rejection of my group, the authorization, as Mr Sixto said yesterday, of a specific regime for the provision of jobs in the catalogues of units attached to the Secretariat of State for Security. A real scandal. Advertising will be restricted and the assessment of candidates' merits will not be known in the administrative field. These are not destinations with operational functions, so it is not justified to send them to the opaque space to which the law we are debating today sends them. With this, you want to hide that data from the independent police officers concerned, from the deputies of this Congress in the opposition and from the media, that is, you want none of us to know too much. This is a utilitarian law, but not for the benefit of the National Police Corps, but of the Government. The Ministry of the Interior used this law to hide fabrications of unrecognizable personnel, to reward its political police clique and to respond to the psychosis of its minister, especially Catalans. The definitive dislate, the fulminant to fly our police model defined in the constitutional bloc as an armed institute of civil nature is reflected in an additional fourth provision known as the catwalk, through which the policemen of the Basque Country, Navarre and Catalonia will be able to transit to the National Police Corps. As it is said in a dialogue of the film Psychosis that seems intended to be interpreted by Mr.Fernández Díez: I want to see you whenever possible and in whatever circumstances, even in a respectable way. I sincerely believe, ladies and gentlemen, that neither by one circumstance nor by another will we see autonomous police officers in the National Police Corps. However, they are not the only ones who will be able to do so. Upon review, military personnel who complete their long-term engagement with the Armed Forces with 45 years of age will also be in a position to do so. They bet on militarism and authoritarianism for this civilian police force. The same Director General, Cosidó, who put all the obstacles in the way that the National Police Corps did not have a staff law in 2011 agreed with the trade union representatives, is now trying to collate, at the last moment, one without any trade union agreement. The SUP and the SPP have said no to this staff law. The text starts with many difficulties from the outset and, as we feared, parliamentary procedure has only made it worse. I'm done. They have not rectified this legislative gap in the Senate and have also consolidated the changes they made concerning victims of terrorism, which leave a member of the State Security Forces and Bodies in a worse position than another member subject to the basic statute of the public employee. They did not consult either the groups of this Congress or the associations of majority victims. I remind you of Winston Churchill's opinion: Democracy is the need to bend from time to time to the opinions of others. They haven't saved up the show either, especially with the catwalk. In the Senate they wanted to introduce the local police, rejecting it, definitively, for the frontal and unanimous rejection of all the police unions. Curiously, that of the operational deputy director was very explicit in his condemnation of such a claim: They do not take our ideas into account and, moreover, use the National Police Corps for political purposes in an absolutist framework of another time. How can you be surprised if you keep talking about political police or their parallels with the old Social Political Brigade? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Trevín. For the People's Group, Mr Cabello de Alba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are debating - although Mr Trevín does not think so - an organic law that will equip the National Police for the first time in its history - therefore, it is a historical law - with a complete, up-to-date and modern legal framework that regulates the staff regime of its career officers, their individual and collective rights and duties. I can assure you that it is a law dear and needed by the police collective which, in its parliamentary history, even if it does not seem so, has not had great difficulty. There has been discussion in the Commission, work has been done on a paper, where 173 amendments have been tabled, of which more than 20% have been taken into account; amendments that have led to transactions, additions or cancellations of issues that you well know could be regarded as very important in the content of the bill. Undoubtedly, the legal text has improved considerably, both in form and substance. All the amending groups, to a greater or lesser extent, have been satisfied with their proposals and, therefore, this law, to a greater or lesser extent, because it is democracy, is a law of all. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the presentations by all the political groups, especially the Group of the European People's Party, Conrad Escobar and Ana Vázquez, without whose contributions it would have been impossible and, of course, also, as always, the excellent work of the counsel for the Committee on the Interior, Mrs Ripollés. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate has also done its work by once again improving the substance and form of the law. Today we are bringing the adoption of the amendments introduced by the High Chamber, most of which are legislative or grammatical, as Mrs Díez said. But something else must have been done by the Senate, Mrs Díez, when it has caused both Mr Sixto and Mr Trevín to be so deeply disturbed, although Mr Trevín is deeply disturbed permanently. It is a pity, sincerely, that the political moment does not encourage consensus, and that the party guidelines prevent the generosity that, no doubt, an organization such as the National Police would deserve, which is the adoption of this law. I thank Mrs Diez for her constant concern about the National Police Corps, which I share with you, although I do not share with you that it is an absolutely lost law. Obviously, in democracy the laws never reach the state that we would all have wanted, but, of course, here it is adopted for the first time in thirty years of the history of the National Police Corps and hopefully with the possibility of improvement. In that upgrade of the National Police Corps you know that I too will be permanently present. Mr. Guillaumes, you have come as on other occasions. I do not know whether you have realized that, throughout your speech, you are not talking about the National Police personnel regime. In fact, I hoped that when you said that you were going to start talking well about the law and so far we have arrived, you would speak much better about the law, given that in the period of amendments you only presented eight and all concerning the Civil Guard. I therefore hoped that you would like to see what had already been presented. In any case, the approval between those two bodies, the Civil Guard and the National Police Corps, for which you advocate would have been much more logical to do so in a common law. The Organic Law on Security Forces and Bodies should be reformed and the Staff Regime Act of one of the two bodies should not be used to do everything. Therefore, even if only by legislative technique, it was not the right time. With regard to Mr Sixto's intervention, for having the attention to respond to each of you, you and I know perfectly well where we stand. In any case, you spoke on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior - even if you are a member of the Legislature, at least I have to question it - and said that there is a trade union persecution. In the Civil Guard there are no trade unions, so persecution, if it exists, must be of a completely different kind. Mr Trevín, the lack of complications that I was talking about during the parliamentary procedure does not correspond to the vision of the law that you have always given in your speeches, both in the Commission and from this rostrum. Especially with the Socialist Group and with you, Mr Trevín, we have heard, as today, about almost anything but the personnel regime of the National Police, which is the subject of this law. As you do not talk about the content of the legal text, based on your arguments - your subconscious has betrayed it - I tend to think that what really bothers you is that the law is passed, but not because of its content, but because you were not able to approve it, even if you blame Mr. Cosidó's opposition, currently Director General of the Police, and stayed in the Senate when the legislature ended. By the way, Mr Trevín, again insinuates and even speaks specifically and very clearly of politicization, of the political use of the National Police. You offend the professionalism and integrity of the whole collective. Is that your experience? Is that the attitude of the cops you're used to talking to? Mr Trevín, the police are not people without political opinion, but for the most part they are extraordinary and professional fleas that serve the public authorities with absolute impartiality and when they feel the need to do politics - you have examples in your ranks and in myself - they do it from outside the body and outside the police function. Is your experience another? By the way, Mr Sicilia, this morning I heard you, not without a certain surprise, in the control session of the Government, on the occasion of a question to the Minister of the Interior, claim your status as a Member, which seems very good to me, but it would be good if, as a Member, you were able to move from demagogy, creation and repetition of slogans to a somewhat deeper analysis of the laws, their comments and their consequences. It would be good for your country, even to the detriment of your party's interests. [[Mr Trevín Lombán speaks words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u189	Mr. Trevín, it's not your turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not see, Mr Trevín, the law - I was going to say - that you expose, but you do not expose any law. As always, he comes here to talk about his book. Finally, I see a law that brings together all the essential aspects of the National Police personnel regime, which until now have been diffused and dispersed. I see a rule which, in addition to the proper specificities, reflects in substance and in the form laid down in the basic Staff Regulations of the public employee. I see a rule that, updated and adapted to the reality of the moment, does not break at all with the police model established by Law 2/1986 on Security Forces and Bodies. I see a rule that enshrines for these police officers equal treatment and opportunities between men and women, although you have remained stuck since your previous intervention in which even non-sexist language has not been taken into account. I think you have not just read it, but if you read Article 17 - and I will read only a very simple part - you say in the new 1a that, in the event of a woman holding the category nomenclature, it will be the following: Commissioner, Inspector and Deputy Inspector. You have taken into account, Mr Trevín, and you, as you are used to repeating all your slogans as mantras, have not yet erased it from your speech, but it is false. This law perfectly reflects all the principles that generate equal treatment between men and women within the National Police Corps, including the nomenclature. The previous Government's own provision was insufficient, moreover, unnecessary as a rule of legislative technique. The standard is perfectly suitable for what is needed at this time. I'm just finishing up, I see I have little time left. What points do you disagree with, Mr Trevín? Why don't you say so? What do you disagree with? By the way, are they also going to repeal this law when they come to power, in the hypothetical and undesirable case that they do? Because, as they say, they will have no more time than to repeal laws. This law is, as we have said, not only a text that combines everything relating to the personnel regime of the National Police Corps, it is that it meets all the constitutional requirements of the most important functions assigned to the security forces and bodies; it is a law that advances and updates the rules, rights and obligations, and all this for the benefit of the officials, but above all without forgetting that the ultimate purpose of the police function is to provide citizens with an effective and quality service. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your generosity. [[Mr Sicilia Alferez asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Cabello de Alba. Mr Sicilia, in fact, you were quoted and you were not in the debate. So, you have three minutes to say what you think.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. As you say, without being in the subject of the debate I have been mentioned by Mr Cabello de Alba. Mr Cabello de Alba, it is sad that you have to use this debate, the debate on the law on police personnel, to answer what the minister has been unable to answer me. So far you are a Member, like me; do not be arrogant about the capacity of the minister who has not even been able to answer me, because I have not lacked the truth in anything I have told the minister in my question. Mr Cabello de Alba, I have never done with you, with the minister, or with anyone in your group - because they deserve the utmost respect - what you have just done to me right now. At least I should have the same respect, not for what I am but for what I represent and for the legitimacy that I have, which is the same as you, which the citizens give us. I have not called you demagogue, as you have done to me. What you have done is not to value an intervention, which, I insist, did not correspond to you - and what you accuse Mr Trevín of talking about other issues; it has fallen into the same -; when I spoke to the minister in the question and told him that ecologists who hang on a crane and deploy a banner can have a sanction of up to 30,000 euros, I was not doing demagoguery, Mr Cabello de Alba. And, if you know the law gag, you know it's not demagogic, that's what you just passed in that law. You know perfectly well, Mr Cabello de Alba, that it is not demagogic to say that a group of citizens who sit at the door of a house to avoid eviction, even if they do so peacefully, can be fined up to 30,000 euros.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u193	Mr Sicilia, you have given the floor but you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u194	I'll be done right away. Mr. Cabello de Alba, that's not demagogic, it's describing what you've done in a law. And it is very sad that you have to use your speaking time during the debate on the law of the police personnel regime to give me the reply that the minister has not been able to give me. [[Mr Cabello de Alba asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u195	Mr Cabello de Alba, you have the floor but focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Sicilia, I did not give you the reply the minister had to give because I do not speak on behalf of the minister. Just as you did this morning, I claim here, in addition to my status as a police officer, my status as a deputy in order to give my opinion in this room freely and forcefully. You couldn't call me a demagogue because I haven't done a demagogue, but I'm gonna tell you one thing. I do not know - because I have not read it or know of its existence - no law gags. Here, in a democratic Parliament, we have passed a law on citizen security and you are the one who has to be careful with your expressions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u197	Thank you very much, Mr Cabello de Alba. - DRAFT ORGANICAL LAW AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY OF THE JULY OF THE JUDICIAL POWER. [[File number 121/00134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u198	We move on to the amendments adopted by the Senate to the Organic Bill amending Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. Firstly, Mr Olabarría has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, first let me congratulate you because it is a law in which it is congruent ratio and matter, and in this legislature they do not abound. [[The lady]] We have come to amend the Law on Assisted Fertility in a law regulating museums, archives and libraries; we have come to incorporate through an amendment in a partial reform of the Civil Registry the configuration of free justice, and they have realized after the adoption of the Penal Code that there are twenty misconfigured criminal types, which will one day explain how they intend to regenerate and properly configure them from the perspective of prescription and other problems affecting these criminal injustices. But in this law the truth is that we have regulated things linked to the judicial organic law with some interesting aspects and others less, minister; interesting aspects that we support regarding the strengthening of the admission rooms, for example, that it was a problem repeatedly denounced in the field of the administration of justice, to the configuration and more precise legal identification of the lawyers to the service of justice, that one insinuates that it will be insinuated that they will be in charge of the handling of the Civil Registry when the vacatio legis articulated in relation to the new configuration of the Civil Registry in 2017 - I do not know if one insinuates too much, you can tell me later, but it would not be bad solution in any case from the perspective of our group - and to improve the interoperability of the multiple IT services between different competent justice administrations, which was necessary for the efficiency of a public service that was dysfunctional, among other things because of the incompatibility of some of the IT services that configured, transported and transferred the data. In relation to the emeritus judges, it has been possible to avoid the charge to which they could be subject by working in the jurisdictional sphere until the age of seventy-five. It is always a bad precedent to increase the retirement age of judges because then some fellow cabinet member can think of making these increases for all citizens from the perspective of the financial sustainability of the pension service. We are therefore very concerned when retirement ages are increased, even as emeritus judges. But there are two problems, Minister, in relation to which we have lost almost a historic opportunity to solve them properly and which are repeatedly denounced by our group: an adequate configuration of the autonomous cassation and the configuration of the autonomous councils of the judiciary. Let us hope that sooner or later a system can be established under which cassation remedies are exhausted as provided for in the Constitution, that all procedural bodies will be exhausted within the framework of a higher court of justice of the autonomous communities, with the Supreme Court reserved the extraordinary remedy for the unification of doctrine exclusively. We have not come to this point, which is very relevant and which is increasingly being endorsed by the judges and magistrates themselves of the Administration of Justice and is even a recommendation of the two White Papers for the reform of justice of the General Council of the Judiciary. As for the configuration of the autonomous councils of the judiciary, it is no longer just a desire or part of the ideological acquis of some political parties, but it is a formal and legal requirement of some autonomy statutes, of the so-called last generation. These autonomous councils would have to be done by deconcentrating the powers of the General Council of the Judiciary. As long as, Minister, these problems are not properly resolved - and Mr Castillo is aware that this is a constant demand from my parliamentary group - it will be difficult for you and I to agree on how to reform the judicial organic law as a whole. We are going to vote no to the Senate amendments because we want to express our final opposition to the bill and we regret the missed opportunity in relation to such an important rule for the proper functioning of the administration of justice. We have high expectations in your dialogue attitude and in your proclivity to consensus, but you have failed us in this area, Minister. We have failed or there have been ideological discrepancies between your group and the one I represent that at this time are insurmountable. Let us hope that this will not always be the case and that one of the outstanding adjustments to the institutionality of the Spanish State will occur in the area of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which is the adjustment of the Administration of Justice to the requirements of a composite State - and not a unitary State - as is supposed to be the Spanish State. And I claim from what was discussed in the previous law, which is the law of national security, where the future is already precarious even of the autonomous fact itself as such. Madam President, for the reasons given, and feeling it very much, Minister, because progress has been made in matters relating to ensuring greater operational efficiency in the field of this administration, we will vote against the Senate's amendments because we cannot vote against the text of the draft. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u200	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u201	Thank you, President. On 16 April, when we had the whole debate in this plenary, I had the opportunity to explain to the minister why our parliamentary group had tabled an amendment in its entirety. It was primarily because, in our view, the Government should have been more ambitious in reforming the Organic Law on the Judiciary and should have raised a much broader reform, not merely a cosmetic issue, which may be right in what it deals with, but which leaves unaddressed issues that we believe are fundamental. In that debate, I reminded him on behalf of my group of three fundamental issues which, in our view, had motivated the introduction of the amendment in its entirety. First, that justice must have the capacity to act quickly; if there is no rapid action, if there is no rapid response, if the solution is delayed, justice is not such. And for quick justice to work in time and form, we need human and material means. I remember that when we were in that debate, at that time, Mr. Rat's housekeeping and subsequent detention and release were taking place. I did not know that when I was in the rostrum and quoted, precisely to defend the amendment to the whole, a petition from the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, which is constantly calling on the Government to provide material and human resources for justice to be able to act and do justice. That has not been corrected either in the process of Congress or in the process of the Senate, because for you it was not the object of the law, and there is our main discrepancy. The second issue that should have been raised is also a pending subject of our democracy from the perspective of the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy and concerns the system of appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. I know that it is a repeated debate, I know that it is a dispute that we have not only with your parliamentary group - in the last parliamentary term we agreed and not with this one - but also with the Socialist Group, I know that you appeal to constitutionality for the way in which the members of the General Council of the Judiciary are appointed, but we, with the same ruling of the Constitutional Court, say that it is not, because the Constitutional Court said that, if there was a division - and that is what is now happening when it comes to appointing the members of the General Council of the Judiciary - it was not constitutional and it was contrary to the criteria of the constituent. Finally, the third issue that we thought should be raised is that it should be the moment when the privileges of politicians and, therefore, the stalemate should be reviewed. Minister, you yourself told me it could be, but not at this time; the case is that we never find the time to do what needs to be done. That is why, Minister, Members of the People's Group, of the Group that supports the Government, and ladies and gentlemen, although the amendments that come from the Senate deserve a positive opinion in general - most of them we will vote in favour of and in some of them we will abstain - the scope of the law does not deserve us. I think it's a missed opportunity, as I say. Although what is regulated is not negative, from the perspective of our group it is insufficient, absolutely insufficient and therefore in the final procedure, when we vote on organic law, our group will not be able to support it and we will have a vote of abstention, because, as I say, it is not what is regulated but what is left out. Regrettably, that which is most important from the point of view of justice and from the point of view of the exercise of justice on an equal basis and under conditions of autonomy and independence remains out. And that's bad for democracy and it's a shame we haven't. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Today, we are witnessing another example of legislative fury, of this Government's regulatory hyperactivity, confirming that when there are no policies, laws end up being made. This is the third reform of the Judiciary Act in this legislature, and none of them has been able to address the serious problems of justice in this country. On the contrary, the Government, far from solving problems, has created them and managed to deal with all the legal actors involved in the administration of justice. We have already said this at the time, this is a partial reform, another; it is a reform done at the service of certain groups and there could be no lack of a classic in the behaviour of the Government in this legislature: it is a law that hinders, when it does not prevent, the normalization of the use of official languages in the field of justice. With the text that you bring us one more step is being taken in the loss of independence of the judiciary, progress is being made in the colonization and partisan control of the judiciary and in the control by the executive of a power that should be autonomous by increasing the powers of the president of the Supreme Court, even with the control of the technical office. The amendments that come to us from the Senate not only do not attenuate these factors but aggravate them. The technical cabinet of the Supreme Court is transformed into a cabinet of its president to control the chambers politically. By the way, speaking of political control of the chambers, do you really believe that an amendment by the People's Group in the Senate is the best way to regulate the professional career of judges, the retirement age and the status of emeritus? It is very difficult not to fall into the temptation to think that this is an ad hominem reform aimed at removing certain annoying judges from the Social and Dispute-Administrative Chamber by forcing them out of the Chamber. Its argument is that it is a matter of facilitating the renewal and promotion of younger judges. Don't bother! This is said by a Government that does not convene the necessary places to fill vacancies. If you want to stop capping the promotion of young judges, convoke the uncovered places, extend the places of the courts of all bodies, exactly the opposite of what they do with their amendment to article 441.2, which further restricts the possibilities of promoting the bodies in the service of the Administration of Justice. In another respect, we are concerned about Amendment No 264 insofar as it re-establishes the political control of judgments from so-called doctrinal unification through non-judicial plenary sessions that will establish interpretative criteria. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that this bill does not bring any improvements to the judiciary where it should do so, in the area of the expansion of resources, and that on the contrary it slides even further into the partisan political control of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u204	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. Mrs Ciuro has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u205	Thank you very much, Madam President. From the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union we would speak in this case of a missed opportunity. We would have liked the processing of this organic law of the judiciary to have been used to give effect to the legal provision contained in the statutes of autonomy of the new generation and which are not minor aspects, in our view, for precisely the benefit of the rationalization of the Administration of Justice, the proximity to the justiciable and the efficiency of the resources. We agree that justice is justice if it is swift; it is swift not only with means and with human resources; it is also swift and fairer if we are able to respect the competence and powers of each administration in each area. This also contributes to speed, transparency, agility and, therefore, good justice. I would like to focus now on the amendments tabled by the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union which have not been accepted and which I would like to claim. We have tabled a group of amendments on judicial demarcation. As stated in the statement of reasons in the Organic Law that the reform is intended to meet the requirement of efficiency and agility in the judicial system, we believe that the failure to incorporate some amendments from our group is just in the opposite direction. We believe that it is essential that the autonomous communities with competence in the field of justice can establish judicial demarcations on the basis of something very important, criteria of rationality and interest brought by the local demarcations in the judicial demarcation and in the fixing of the capitality of the respective judicial parties. Drawing demarcation lines from the central administration often does not follow rational criteria of mobility or proximity in the territory for the benefit of the administered. Lack of knowledge and rigidity often play against rationality criteria for the benefit of the justiciable. I would also like to stress the need for the involvement of the Administration of the Autonomous Community in establishing the jurisdiction of the Court of Violence against Women. Why? Because it is the most immediate knowledge, together with the local administration, of the incidence of cases and the operating needs of each judicial party in the various demarcations to give effective response to women victims, which should be our maximum aspiration. I would like to make a reference to the amendments relating to language rights, which cannot be otherwise, ladies and gentlemen. Justice must be close, it must be respectful in its functioning with the rights of citizens. In order to be able to demand respect, respect must be projected and, therefore, this must be acknowledged to the justiciable person in the Administration of Justice. For our group it is essential to defend the rights of the litigants, as this is in turn a guarantee of the constitutional right to effective judicial protection, where linguistic rights and the constitutional right to non-discrimination, in this case because of language, are incardinated. The guarantee of linguistic rights is certainly - and you know it perfectly well - a better quality of defence and a perception of closer proximity to the administration of justice; nothing less. At this point I would like to stand and reflect on the intervention - which seemed to us at least provincial - that in its day made the spokesman of the People's Party on the question of the linguistic rights of citizens in the Administration of Justice, coming to say that knowledge takes place and, therefore, clearly doubting the capacities of judges, magistrates and other legal operators, assuming them manifest inability to be well prepared in the judicial field and, at the same time, to be competent in the co-official languages of the autonomous communities in which they carry out their professional practice; a real penalty. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is supporting the Government in its task of giving up the Catalan language in the administration of justice and also the other co-official languages. If they were for the work of working for the preservation of the linguistic wealth of the State and given the evidence that only 12% of the judgments were given in Catalan - Catalonia's own language, on the other hand - they would take measures along the lines that we point out to them, that is, that the knowledge of the languages of the autonomous, co-official communities with Spanish, was a requirement and not a mere merit. For the record, Catalan is the thirteenth language spoken in Europe, with more than 10 million speakers, and you despise it. If they were for the work they would find in the Councillor of Justicia of the Government of Catalonia all their support to offer the necessary means to support the learning of this language for the good performance of the functions in the judiciary. Another group of amendments is intended for the Councils of Justice. My group, by amendment, demands compliance with the law, in this case the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and others, in the sense that the establishment of the judicial councils should be carried out in order to enable them to know, in a decentralised way, issues relating to management and to judicial or data protection organizations. Decentralisation means giving effect to the principle of subsidiarity and, therefore, supporting efficiency and agility, which we believed were the subject of legal reform. We hoped for greater respect in this legislative text for the regulatory and management capacity of the autonomous communities with competence in the field of justice. In this respect, we have tabled a package of amendments to deepen the principle of subsidiarity and, therefore, the better match between the administration of justice and the territory and the people to whom it is intended, in scrupulous respect for the distribution of competence. Delimiting competition functions with clarity and respect is what should have inspired all legal reform. We believe that it should have been matters taken up by the Autonomous Communities, for example, the selection of lawyers from the Administration of Justice - the former secretaries -, the regime of their administrative situations or the appointment of them on the proposal of the competent body of the community. The fact that determining remuneration supplements fell on the Autonomous Administration would, for example, respect the principle of financial autonomy of the community and not as at present, where the attribution of this competence to the Administration of Justice again laminated the division of jurisdiction. Finally, I will refer to the General Council of the Judiciary. We have also tabled amendments affecting the governing body of the judges, in particular as regards their composition and the consolidation of the two categories of members that are divided between those in the standing committee and those who are not. From this point of view and in order to avoid categorization we would have liked to be able to guarantee a better rotation of the vowels that would form part of the permanent diputation among other aspects. In fact, we continue to see a need for reform in this area, as the current distribution has created problems of functioning in the judicial governing body, as I think they are well aware. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, and finally, a new missed opportunity, as I have already commented, and, while we are going to support some of the amendments that come back from the Senate, our vote will be negative on the draft organic law of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Ciuro. For the Socialist Group, Mr Martín Peré.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start my speech by talking about Greece, but not the way in which you have been doing it the whole political scene over the past few weeks, I want to start my speech by quoting Greece, but classical Greece and specifically its mythology. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that many of you will know the story of Procusto's innkeeper and his iron bed, but for those who are listening to us who may not know it, I will tell you that Procusto was an innkeeper of the city of Eleusis who had an iron bed and had the custom that those guests who passed through his bed, if they did not conform to the measures of it, cut them off. That is, if they had left their legs, they sawed their legs; if they had left their arms, they sawed their arms, and if they had left their heads, they would cut off their heads. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Minister, in this parliamentary term you have made your particular bed of Procusto with justice, cutting off their legs so that the judges would not pursue those who were not interested in you, or extending their limbs, such as their hands, so that they could catch those who were interested in you. [[Applauds]] The problem we have is that this partial reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, being a capital law within the structure of our Administration of Justice, has suffered precisely from the same defect. You have used this reform to modify the law to your convenience, according to your particular interests and above the general interest, which should defend a law of these characteristics. Let's give an example. You have subreptitiously introduced into this bill the vestiges of Mr Gallardón's infamous bill of demarcation and judicial plant. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, it is not the Government through real decrees, nor is it the General Council of the Judiciary or the governing chambers of the higher courts of justice which, according to their particular criteria, are responsible for determining the division of matters, no. As the law says, as our Constitution says in article 24.2, it must be a law that determines the right to the predetermined judge and with that modification you not only violate 24.2, but also article 24.1 and the principle of effective judicial protection. In addition, it seems that in your particular justice project women do not have room, or at least women do not have room, just as men do, because you have been stubbornly involved in maintaining the legislative amendment according to which the Equality Commission must not be chaired by a woman. For those who do not know what the current situation is, we will say that of the four commissions that exist, three are currently chaired by men and only the Equality Commission, because the law so far determined, was chaired by a woman, being women noticeably majority than men in the field of justice. If that's not going against the gender policies that so many years of work have cost us, if that's not having a particular vision of justice in which they don't fit, or at least not with the same rights, women, tell me what that need answers to. The same applies to the standing committee or to the election of the members of the standing committee. My group does not agree with the method chosen, but it is enough to say that we have brought an appeal of unconstitutionality to what constitutes all the modification of the current General Council of the Judiciary to define clearly and precisely what our strong opposition to what you have done with the General Council of the Judiciary is. And the same is true of universal jurisdiction. We have again tabled amendments to both the procedure in the Congress of Deputies and the procedure in the Senate to recover the competences you stole, which you cut off the judges, the courts and the courts, with the infamous Organic Law 1/2014. What is the real problem so that judges can prosecute those most serious crimes against human rights that occur outside Spanish territory, regardless of the nationality of the victims? What is the reason for you to have to restrain and cut off the hands of the judges so that you can't reach them? Even in this regard, they have continued to be stubbornly involved in maintaining it. In the same way - now changing the subject - they have not responded to the requests that we have made various groups so that, since we proceed to modify some of the competences of certain jurisdictional orders, it is the commercial courts that attend to the competitive processes of natural persons precisely because we held that, since they have a specific specialty and are responsible for doing so in the case of legal entities that are in a competitive procedure, why should they have a guarantee, a resolution probably better based on law those legal entities or legal persons and not natural persons? They have also rejected that possibility. It is true that quite a few amendments have been made, most of them technical in nature, during their proceedings in the Senate, but the main defects of those who suffer from this law, some of which I have summarized - I cannot quote them all for a matter of time - remain present in it. That is why, regardless of whether we had supported some of those amendments even in their Senate proceedings, right now our sense of vote on what the bill is remains the same as during its Senate proceedings: we will vote against it. The amendment to the Organic Law on the Judiciary represents an absolute disregard for what is one of the main tools of the country's administration of justice, a tool that serves to correct the imbalances that occur in society, some of which, by the way, have been generated by your own government, Mr Catalá. And precisely with this law, the only thing you are going to do is to deepen these imbalances even further. He ended my speech by recalling that Procusto was brought to justice by Theseus when he had him lying on his bed and subjected him to the same tortures he had subjected to so many guests. Your particular thesis will come to you in the next general election. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u208	Thank you, Mr. Martin. For the People's Group, Mrs Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are putting an end to the process of amending the Organic Law on the Judiciary, whose bill entered this House last February. Despite what certain spokesmen are trying to interpret with a marked and closed role, I do not know whether imposed or self-imposed, almost yellow because of their immobilism, the transit of this project through the General Courts has come to complete, coordinate and improve with the collaboration of the various political groups and in constant dialogue with the legal operators a good reform. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that the representatives of some opposition groups today have again demonstrated that they are making a speech devoid of connection with reality, with the facts, with the object of this law or with the proper interpretation of the rules. They don't even recognize their own work. If in the passage through Congress sixty amendments were adopted from the different groups, after their processing in the Senate we are faced with a text that is the result of the acceptance of fifty-five more of the Mixto, CiU, Entesa, Socialist, Basque and Popular groups. Therefore, a total of 150 amendments incorporated into a text that responds to the common objective of promoting the modernization, acceleration and rationalization of justice, that is, to have a quality service, to reduce the response times of the judicial bodies, to equip the jurisdiction with the greatest specialization, to guarantee the rights of citizens, with particular attention to the weakest, adapted to the circumstances and needs of the society of our day, which, in short, legitimizes the judiciary, which guarantees our rights and freedoms, independent in its jurisdictional function, in the hands of professionals who are to carry out their functions in the best conditions. As I said in the debate on the opinion in the Committee on Justice, thirty years ago these Chambers adopted the first Organic Law on the Judiciary of Democracy. On 2 July it was published in the Official Gazette of the State in that year, and it is enough to remember here what the Minister of Justice at that time, Mr Ledesma Bartret, said in his presentation in the debate of the whole, when he called on the groups to discern between what are essential discrepancies of those purely accidental ones that can be overcome in the parliamentary discussion, based on the agreement of everyone on the need to undertake the reform of the Administration of Justice and placing above any other the permanent interests of the citizens. That law passed seven years after the entry into force of the Constitution was an important step forward in the reform of justice, with its lights and shadows. Today, some of its postulates are solid points and progress has been made in improving and building on them, with the 2001 Pact for the Modernization of Justice being a key milestone, which we are still developing because society demands it and needs it. We, as Minister Catalá has pointed out, choose to incorporate instruments for the public service of justice to evolve. That is why the objectives of this reform, which concludes today, are clear and also shared even by those who want to deny bread and salt to any rules promoted by a popular government. I believe that achieving a modern, agile and efficient judicial system that responds to the demands of society must have a quality public service and a justice system that is able to reduce the response times of judicial bodies and give the jurisdiction of greater specialization, while at the same time promoting judicial independence, legal certainty and the technical quality of resolutions. This is why the aim is to improve response agility, to make a clear bet by specialists and teams where necessary, because we are aware of the wide variety and complexity of issues that need multidisciplinary intervention, or to introduce new measures in the fight against gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever heard of citizens demanding that we work to achieve these objectives? Well, this change that we will adopt today aims to push for the reduction of response times and the greater specialization that the chambers of government can agree on changes in the rules of distribution in order to avoid this imbalance in burdens, which the General Council of the Judiciary insistently highlights. Also the specialization of judicial bodies in certain matters that respond better and quickly to the social demands and needs of each moment and that may reach the provincial level. Victims of violence against women are encouraged to be served by specialized bodies or the possibility of extending the jurisdiction of courts of violence against women to two or more judicial parties; secondment of judges or lawyers of the Administration of Justice to the training body for study, support or advice in complex cases; promotion of the specialization of judges and judges or, for greater legal certainty, the formation of criteria, doctrine. In order to further guarantee human rights and freedoms, the full courts are determined to establish common criteria, thus avoiding contradictions within the collegiate bodies in similar matters; the reform of the administrative and contentious cassation; the possibility of reviewing final judicial decisions when the European Court of Human Rights has declared that it was issued in violation of rights recognized by the Convention; or the protection of data in the field of the courts. It also includes professionalization measures, approving the patrimonial responsibility of members of the judicial career with the public service; the professionalization of the judicial secretaries, from now on lawyers of the Administration of Justice, with a new system of replacements to alleviate the high level of interinity and incorporating historical claims regarding their consideration, status and expansion of functions; the improvement in the exercise of the functions of the procedural management body or enhancing the work of the staff of the Administration of Justice, which will assume functions of protection and assistance to victims. The system of forensic medicine is also being improved and the aim is to promote the comprehensive action of these institutes; the system of admission is being improved and the formation of psychosocial teams is being strengthened. There are new measures to combat gender-based violence, some of which have already been mentioned, by expanding the competence of the judge of violence against women in crimes against privacy, the right to image and honour, and crimes of breach of sentence. Comprehensive forensic assessment units are strengthened; comprehensive judicial statistics are ensured; training of legal operators in the judicial field is intensified at all levels. It is the realization of a firm commitment by the Government to strengthen all the instruments necessary to combat this scourge. I was asking my fellow rapporteur on this law and my group's spokesman for justice, Mr Castillo - and I think it is good to repeat it at this time in view of what we have heard from other groups this morning, because it seems that we are having a dialogue of the deaf or that we are referring to different texts - are citizens' rights being attacked when a better division of matters is possible to avoid serious imbalances, when it is intended that specialised judges should settle disputes or that the governing body of the judiciary should have more powers? Is citizens being run over when the protection of personal data is regulated, when the technical offices are strengthened, when the statutory regime at the service of the Administration of Justice is deepened, and a pre-agreement has been reached with most trade union organisations, including UGT? I insist on other questions. Are particular interests being defended, as we have heard here, when we incorporate new instruments for combating gender-based violence? Doesn't that mean progress and recognition of the importance of the role of our judges and magistrates in developing instruments of support and burden redistribution? Is it inappropriate to be concerned with promoting with determination the definitive incorporation of technological, computer and communication means with criteria that allow coordination and interoperability and that we stop wasting time on a technology that is not used or is not used in all its possibilities? Ladies and gentlemen, this law of a marked technical nature incorporates or develops instruments and mechanisms that affect more justice, better justice, agile justice and, therefore, quality justice. Finally, the discrepancy is legitimate, it is healthy, it helps reflection and achieve the best solution or response. However, principle-based negationism and exclusion serve no purpose. From the amendments adopted in the Senate, relevant amendments have been incorporated into the text of the draft. I'm going to quote some, I can't spell them all out. For example, the coordination of rules affected by changes that have occurred during the course of the process of the law is improved: extension of the Civil Registry vacancy, amendments to the Criminal Code and in the area of pensions by successive referrals of rules. Requirements are set for access to the Technical Cabinet Directorate of the Supreme Court in line with the functions. The creation of exceptions and even criminal chambers is envisaged in capitals where there are already chambers of the High Court of Justice. It amends the powers of the courts of the Mercantile in the field of non-competition, with competence in the field of general conditions and consumer protection in the field of collective actions. In line with this, with regard to the jurisdiction of provincial and also commercial hearings, the same specialized section of the Provincial Court hears appeals against decisions of the Courts of First Instance in proceedings relating to competitions of natural persons and individual actions in relation to general conditions of recruitment. The meeting of full courts will no longer, as we have said, be limited to cases of disparity of criteria, but also to something as important as coordinating procedural practices. The judicial plant is being developed to make possible the generalization of the second instance in criminal proceedings. The composition of the section of admission to the Supreme Court is strengthened in line with the new model of cassation appeal. Various very relevant measures are laid down and we will not detail to give effect to the provisions of the Act of 5 June 2011, regulating the use of new technologies. A new subparagraph is added to extend to the President, Members and Secretary General of the General Council of the Judiciary, in the interests of the principle of transparency, the obligations of articles 17 and 18 of the Law regulating the exercise of the high office. It is imperative that adaptations be made to include persons with disabilities in vacancies. It also modifies the name of the legal medicine specialty by forensic medicine exclusively and better adapting a transition to incorporate with the first promotions, when the entire term has been fulfilled, the new generations formed in the model of the law. Finally, a slightly broader vacatio legis is established, until October 1, 2015, because there are many changes and of relevance that this law incorporates. I must finally say - and I thank all the groups for their availability - that we are going to incorporate a technical amendment to paragraph 8, which incorporates Article 22 quater, where, although the reference to older persons has been changed with a compromise in the Senate, it is absolutely clearer to speak of older persons as a legal concept that will clearly determine the jurisdiction of the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, facts and data speak for themselves about the work done and the outcome. Finally, I should like to record our gratitude to all those who have contributed to the good work in the processing of this law, in particular the Minister of Justice and his team, the legal operators for their suggestions and proposals, the rapporteurs, especially my colleagues José Miguel Castillo and Ángeles Fernández Ahuja, and the lawyers with their always exceptional work. My group is convinced that with the work done, we are contributing with this law to progress in improving the public service of justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Moro. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u211	Thank you, President. I speak very briefly to make it clear that with the adoption by this House of this partial reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, I am convinced that we are witnessing a process of improving the specialization, the professionalization, the quality of our justice. It is true that it is a partial reform, but no less than fifty measures are incorporated to make justice more agile, more professional, more specialized and to ensure a better public service of justice for citizens. This has also been thanks to the work of your ladies and gentlemen, the work of this House and the Senate and many more. I would also like to acknowledge the contributions that the unions of civil servants of justice have made in book VI of the Organic Law, the representatives of judicial secretaries in relation to book V, judicial associations, the General Council of the Judiciary or the governing chamber of the Supreme Court when they have made very interesting contributions in matters of cassation, for example, or other matters. There are many aspects to be regulated, and I do not think that they should be missed. The rapporteur from the Group of the European People's Party has also made a magnificent account of new developments and improvements. Among them, I would like to highlight the reform of the contentious-administrative cassation, which is a strengthening of the figure of our Supreme Court and of the guarantees of judicial procedure; the reform of the specialization and professionalization of both judges and judges as well as of the - now - lawyers of the Administration of Justice; the strengthening of the use of new technologies in our justice system with a binding mandate for it to be carried out; and so many other measures that will ensure, as we said, a better sharing of workloads, greater efficiency in our justice system and, ultimately, greater quality in such an important public service and a pillar of the rule of law as is the Administration of Justice. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u212	Thank you, Minister. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 43/2003 OF 21 NOVEMBER, OF MONTHS. [[File number 121/000128]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u213	We move on to the amendments passed in the Senate to the bill amending Act 43/2003 of 21 November 2003 on Montes. In the course of fixing positions, first of all, by the Joint Group, Mrs Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we said it loud and clear a few weeks ago here in this rostrum: not to the Mountain Law; stop to the Mountain Law of the People's Party. And now, when this bill returns to Congress, we say it again; we will say it louder, clearer and, obviously, more outraged. Today you once again open the door to making forest fires profitable for speculators. It sounds strong said so, but it does. This law of mountains, far from protecting them, what it does is encourage their burning. So much so that this law probably takes away from forest agents their rank as judicial police, thus making it difficult three essential things: firstly, clarification; secondly, detection, and thirdly and very important also, the arrest of the pyromaniacs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, from now on - if you do not know it - the forests will no longer be of everyone, as that announcement said; they will only be of the speculators of the brick industry and of those who inflated the real estate bubble and which has blown us all in the face. We think it's a shame. In fact, it is a take of the citizens' hair that their recipes to get out of the crisis pass by returning to the path of unbridled construction. In addition, it is also an environmental attack that is at the expense of natural heritage, as they also did with the Coasts Act. They not only destroy ecosystems, but they are stealing our natural wealth, which is obviously a collective heritage, and they do so to benefit uniquely and exclusively private interests; private interests that have not had any ethical problem - when I say none I mean none - to defraud and to despoil hundreds of families. Imagine, then, the repairs you may have to destroy the natural heritage. We understand that very few, not to mention none. It must also be said that this law increases the duplication of powers between the bodies responsible for protecting the environment and, at the same time, worsens the response of these bodies to possible criminal acts. They want forest agents to pursue small administrative offences while virtually all environmental offences are simply unpunished, such as forest fires, wildlife poisoning, destruction of natural spaces, killing of protected species or polluting discharges. In short, the Government attacks - and this is also strong - 6,000 forest workers - 500 rural workers in Catalonia - limiting their ability to investigate environmental crimes, despite being the body most prepared for protection and, at the same time, for the comprehensive prevention of the environment. It is subordinated to a staff member who specializes in environmental protection to someone who is not, and who does not have the means to ensure that the environment is properly protected. I ended by recalling that in Catalonia the Cos d'agentes rurales drafts and brings before the judicial authority around two hundred attestations annually for alleged crimes against the environment and also forest fires. This is a task, ladies and gentlemen, which has been repeatedly congratulated by the Environmental Prosecutor's Office of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia and which can be left in nothing. That's why I'll end up like I started: not the law of mountains. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Sad and irremediably, mounted on the apisonator of this government that has been taking everything forward, we come to the edge of the abyss, at the last step for the approval of this mountain law, one more in the anti-environmental escalation of the People's Party. It also fulfils those characteristics common to all its laws. First of all, they do it for Juan Palomo, I eat it for myself, I eat it for myself. Like 99% of the laws they have passed, it is also going to be imposed alone; only in the face of the social rejection of all the entities and people who work, defend and love the mountain, against those who believe they lose a golden opportunity to promote the sustainable management of the mountains, that is the engine of rural development and legal guarantee of any activation plan of the sector that generates environmental and social benefit in the form of employment. They have not collected any of the main demands that the forest sector has made. But not only are they, all the sectors affected, citizens in general, against and with strong arguments: rural agents, forestry, environmental groups, mountaineers, biologists, engineers, trade unions. And how are they not going to be if they do not respond to any social interest, if they are going to lead to a serious setback in the face of citizenship and environmental heritage? Of course, there are always beneficiaries, those who direct all their laws, because it unprotects the mountains from speculation, opens the door to the lack of investigation of crimes and encourages commercial exploitation and privatization of the mountains. Really, being intentional the first cause of forest fires and with this heat it does, how do they explain opening up the possibility of building after a fire, however much they strive to dress the saint, saying that it must be a prevailing general interest and adding more obligations, but always subjective, exposed to friendships and private interests. That's putting the gasoline can uphill, setting foot to intentional fires to then proceed to requalifications. Second characteristic of all its laws: irregularities in the processing and recentralization and invasion of competences. Again, with the excuse that it is basic legislation, Article 149 re-centralizes, strengthens State powers in this area at the cost of undermining the exclusive powers of Euskal Herria. This is a pure and harsh and clearly counterproductive competition interference. With regard to forestry day-care services, which have been responsible for the management, conservation and control of our mountains for over one hundred and fifty years, and any changes that remain effective and efficient in their functions would certainly be unacceptable, and their environmental management and conservation functions would be taken away from them. It is not acceptable that they cannot investigate environmental crimes, that there is legal insecurity, that they place the security forces and bodies with footwear doubling functions, or that they make us swallow with a series of state registers on various issues related to mountains and exploitation, disguised, yes, as mere advertising or consultation instruments but that they are again advancing in re-centralizing functions and competences in which we are fully sovereign, such as the register of hunting and fishing offenders, another instrument created specifically to be made with exclusive autonomous competences. How are we going to admit that the regulations on mountains intend to include regulations on hunting and fishing? Third feature. Nor will this law serve, like others, to achieve the objectives set out. Moreover, it represents a clear step backwards in the improvement, preservation and care of the mountains as natural goods of a transcendental social, ecological and economic function, because it kills the effectiveness and environmental guarantees in the protection of the mountains and the natural environment and clearly clashes with the recommendations of the European Union. Behind a message of modernization there is a great setback. For example, with the new mandatory nature of the project for the management or technical plan for the management of wooded areas, an instrument that has proved effective in managing the mountain from the point of sustainability and has also had the approval of the property. Eliminating their obligation without proposing effective solutions will open the way for further abandonment, possible fires and destruction in unordered mountains without anything happening. In addition to re-centralizing, by promoting the use of planning and management tools by introducing uniform criteria for action throughout the State, they are subject to the mere implementation of such plans. Ladies and gentlemen, the well-managed forest does not burn, and supporting the use of the mountain is essential for the conservation of rural areas and the improvement of their quality of life, for maintaining biodiversity and combating climate change, but it is seen that you are not concerned about the development of the sector but about looking for speculative business niches, as with other laws. Do you know that the average extent of the territory under the guardianship of the State of the countries of the European Union is 24% and that the Spanish State is in line, with a pyric 7%? And instead of rehabilitating it by increasing, preserving and improving, they intend to further squander their scarce heritage. I'm finishing up, Madam President. We want to continue doing so in Euskal Herria, so let us do it in peace. For Amaiur it is clear that this bill, in addition to deepening the re-centralisation and invasion of our sovereignty, worsens in basic aspects the environmental protection, deepens in its deregulation - as has become evident in the response of the sectors directly affected - and certainly in no way favors rural development and job creation, so we give it our strongest not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Ariztegui. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Lleonart.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will induce you to some sort of deja-vu, and so it will continue to be every time a law passes through the Senate in the way it has done: twelve amendments, three minimum corrections or repetitions, six grammatical corrections, an orthographic change - an accent - a change in numbering and a change in style. Let's do it again: 266 senators with an average annual base salary - being from Madrid and not counting the extra pay - of 37,518,60 euros. Among pitos, flutes and penguins, the cost of the Senate last year was almost 52 million euros. We are facing the most expensive spelling and grammar correction department in the world. It must be in order to continue to give Rita a job, now that she is no longer mayor or deputy in Valencia. In its day, a month ago and a peak, we said that the law of mountains encouraged the fragmentation of regulatory regulation and diminished the protection of mountains. It lacks effective measures to promote adequate forest management and lacks forest management-adapted taxation. Months later, it's still the same. After his passage through the Senate and after his hard work as proofreaders, with amendments higher than a pine tree, our UPyD parliamentary group cannot vote against them. What we can do, in order to improve the economy and generate funds for future budgets, is to propose that, for what it serves, the Senate be shut down. I repeat, to avoid new deja-vu, close the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u219	For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u220	Thank you, President. The changes to the law do not bring any improvement to the debate we held in this Chamber in mid-April. In fact, the Mountain Bill does not incorporate substantial improvements in forest management, invades autonomous skills and sectoral laws, represents a serious setback in the necessary forest planning and management, allows for requalifications and construction in burned forest areas. As we said in the debate on amendment to the whole, the law, instead of promoting instruments of public control and forest management, eliminates them. The law has replaced the prior administrative authorization with a responsible declaration and, for cases where there were management instruments, the prior notification regime is also replaced by a responsible declaration; it degrades forest agents, does not adequately protect the spaces integrated in the Natura 2000 Network and, on the other hand, the regulation of certain aspects of kinegetic management, in addition to having no room and being absurd in the mountain law, means a clear invasion of autonomous competences. On the other hand, I insist that the proposal does not contribute to the protection of biodiversity or to combating climate change, an important role that the mountains of our country play. Of the document that comes from the Senate, we are particularly surprised by two issues. One is the insistence, according to paragraph 63 of the Senate's amendments, on eliminating the ban on building in a burned area - it is good to remember that there is now a 30-year limitation - by opening the door to the urban classification of burned forests and, therefore, by opening the door to the implementation of activities that have nothing to do with mountains, forest management or the protection of biodiversity. With this Senate amendment speculation has the door open, and we would set a couple of very illustrative examples. Mythical Land, in Benidorm, or Ski Meseta, in Tordesillas, are very clear examples of what I am saying, two examples in which it is clearly seen that nothing has to do with a theme park or a ski activity with the general interest. Therefore, this is one of the aspects that surprise us about the Senate amendment. There is another aspect that we see with great concern, which did not form part of the draft presented in this House by the Government, and it is the introduction of a series of amendments in the Committee on Agriculture by the People's Group aimed at shielding the Tajo-Segura transfer, using as an excuse a ruling of the Constitutional Court. What surprises us about the amendments of the People's Group is that they use the Mountain Law to shield the Tajo-Segura transfer, in breach of the Water Law, the Environmental Assessment Law and the Water Framework Directive, for example. Therefore, the Mountain Law is used for a legislative amendment that would violate a basic principle, as it is that any amendment of the law would have to be supported by the corresponding period of public information and therefore of participation in the analysis of the modifications incorporated in the whole of the citizenship, but also of this Parliament. It is a twisted use, a twisting interpretation of the parliamentary legislative process to incorporate quiet legislative changes that have nothing to do with the mountain law. The respect that these amendments have for the constitutional doctrine is very questionable, since for any amendment of the law, in the incorporation of new legislative changes through amendments, there should be an element, says the Constitutional Court, of connection, continuity, coincidence, homogeneity, which is not at all given in these amendments proposed by the People's Party. What does the law of mountains have to do with the Tajo-Segura transfer? It's a mockery of parliamentary processing. It does not respect the rules, it does not respect citizens and it does not respect this Parliament; it violates the basic principle of preserving the fundamental right of parliamentarians and citizens to participate in changes to the law. I advise your ladies and gentlemen to read the judgments of July and September 2011 of the Constitutional Court and also to read the strong report of the Ombudsman of November 2014, precisely referring to the transfer of Tajo-Segura. We know - we live it every week - of the use and abuse of the absolute majority of the People's Party and, therefore, any proposal by the opposition does not cease to be a toast to the sun. This law and the Tejo-Segura transfer is a clear example. They use the law of mountains to defend private interests instead of a public good such as the mountains which, regardless of their ownership, must be protected, and open the doors with premeditation and avalanche to the sales of intercommunal waters through shielding, through the back door, without any respect to the constitutional doctrine, this Parliament and the citizens, the Tajo-Segura transfer. We shall abstain in the votes on the technical amendments and vote against the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party in the proposal that comes to us from the Senate. We believe that the citizens of this country and the mountains themselves deserve more respect than that of the People's Party and the government of Mariano Rajoy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u221	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Moya. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unity, Mr Barberà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Senate we have the bill on mountains that will amend the text that was adopted in 2003. At the time, the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union decided not to introduce an amendment to the entire bill. We had an obligation to work to introduce, in view of the possibility given to us by the submission of this bill, all the necessary precepts to develop the real potentialities that the forestry sector has. Mountains, such as green infrastructure, are natural systems that provide first-class environmental services. We should ensure that the text recognized the multifunctionality of forests; their ability to perform simultaneously diverse functions; the possibility of generating activity; of generating employment and thus economic growth; the preservation of natural wealth; and the maintenance of the great biodiversity represented by forests as a whole. They must allow, from a social point of view, not only the recreational service they generate, but also the creation of employment that will help to fix the rural population in the territory. During the amendment process, we were able to rectify some very serious initiatives introduced by the bill. It has not been easy to convince the People's Party to rectify its proposal with regard to rural actors; we have been able to correct it. Rural agents can continue to act as hitherto, in an effective, complementary and coordinated manner with the rest of the competent security forces. The ability, which they wanted to withdraw, to investigate environmental crimes has been preserved. We are pleased with the work that has been done so far by this body of rural actors and that, thanks to our amendments - and those of other parliamentary groups - they will be able to continue to do so. We believe in the need for planning as the best way to ensure sustainable forest management and we support all initiatives aimed at simplifying such planning, without lowering environmental requirements, highlighting those that allow the improvement of the traceability of own products and ensure the legality of the origin of forest products. These measures are incorporated thanks to the proposals of different competent administrations. The text of the draft, in our view, could have made further progress in the simplification section. As far as the number of partners is concerned, we have achieved their viability in a consensual way. Thanks to a compromise amendment we have incorporated the necessary measures to speed up the management of these figures, which are very problematic due to their diversity of owners. With this initiative we can say that 1.5 million hectares that were not managed will be able to be incorporated more quickly into economic activity, which means creating green jobs and fixing the rural population. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to highlight these sections: correcting the injustice done to rural actors, enhancing planning as a basic tool for sustainable forest management and simplifying management and improving traceability. These are achievements made during the project process and we wish to highlight them. These are insufficient achievements, but ultimately achievements. Ladies and gentlemen, we must once again call for other initiatives by the Catalan Parliamentary Group for Convergence and Union which we have repeated over and over again here and in the Senate and which have not been properly collected or incorporated. This project could or should have been a very important tool for increasing economic activity, thanks to an appropriate forest policy and always with environmentally sustainable management. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that fiscal incentives are necessary for sustainable forest management, incentives that really contribute to promoting and ensuring management that encourages investments in forest farms, investments aimed at meeting the objectives set out in your forest management or planning plans or instruments. We proposed a 30% deduction directly applicable to the share of the IRPF or corporate tax. Concepts have been introduced, but they are only useful for press headlines, which are really insignificant when they apply to the forest reality of the territory and to the distribution of property. We cannot accept that they are limited to forestry companies and cannot be extended to individual owners, nor can we agree with the approved percentage of 10%. The missed opportunity is even more serious when these tax incentives that we propose are already recognized for territorial custodians, foundations and other environmental organizations. We cannot accept that farmers and forestry farmers should be left out. We are missing a new opportunity to collaborate in economic recovery, wasting the rural environment as a real catalyst for an economy based on investment and the intelligent exploitation of natural resources. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that these fiscal incentives measures would help prevent forest fires or minimize their effects and the costs that the Autonomous Communities and the State spend on extinction. These days in Catalonia and in other parts of the State the risk of forest fires is extreme, and agricultural activities with machinery are banned these days. I'll remind you of data from the ministry page. In the one-decade time frame, 2004-2013, the average annual fire rate has been 15,638, affecting an annual average of 160,000 hectares of forest or forested area. This deterioration of our environmental wealth should also be reason enough for the People's Party to have been sensitive to our proposals. Therefore, few but important achievements; missed and wasted opportunities. To face the last part of my exhibition, I will talk about competitive invasions, and here I will be blunt. I know that many of you expect this when we speak to the parliamentary groups in Catalonia, but it cannot be otherwise. As long as the People's Party and its Government draw up texts invading our powers, we will be belligerent, denouncing it here and where it is necessary as many times as it is necessary when you try to laminate our status of autonomy. These competitive invasions have not been corrected during the course of the bill and, worse, with the amendments introduced, the competitive invasion has increased. The text of the draft certainly seeks to strengthen and extend the basic competence of the State: to recentralize, to homogenize competences. With the amendments we are adopting today, this has increased considerably. This attitude develops at different times and there are competing invasions since the initial drafting of the project and throughout its processing. Exclusive hunting and fishing skills are being invaded in Catalonia and other regions, as some spokespersons have already mentioned. In addition, in the amendments incorporated by the People's Group in the paper, where, for example, the national network of natural roads is overly defined; on the basis of this premise, the State intends to determine the requirements and criteria to be met by a natural route forming part of the national network. Therefore, we have a path that will depend on the autonomous community, but that may belong to the national network, so it will be the State that will determine the criteria of that path. This duplicity is impossible since the competences in this section are exclusive to the Autonomous Communities. Another time for amendments is when the bill returns after it is processed in the Senate. The text in this case assigns to the autonomous communities the approval of model forest management models for those mountains whose characteristics allow it to do so, as well as in accession procedures to become an orderly mountain. There is no problem until the amendment is incorporated, where it is added that the ministry will collaborate in the approval of model models and facilitate the exchange of experiences. A clear covert objective is to develop skills and homogenise territorial diversity. And the most curious of all, ladies and gentlemen. We were glad that the text attributed to the Autonomous Communities the duty to guarantee the conditions for the restoration of the forested land on fire and specified when it was prohibited, giving the same Autonomous Communities, and on a unique basis, the possibility of agreeing exceptions with well-described and transparent precepts. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Convergence and Union Group we welcomed and accepted any full transfer of powers to the Generalitat, as it cannot be otherwise. Too much joy! The People's Party transferring competences to the autonomous communities? It couldn't be. The Senate has already corrected it. It is now necessary that it be a state law and not an autonomous law that determines the need for forest use change when compelling reasons of first-class public interest arise. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against the amendments that affect the increase in the competitive invasion of this law. We do not understand the reasons of the People's Party for not taking this opportunity to create employment in rural areas, create economic activity through sustainable forest management and reduce the serious social and environmental consequences of forest fires. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u223	Thank you, Mr. Barberà. Mrs Seara has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u224	Thank you very much. I would like to begin this speech by thanking my fellow rapporteur on this law, Pilar Lucio, for his work. We've done a joint job, I think it's important. I would also, of course, like to congratulate all social, environmental, forestry and trade union organisations. In particular, the agricultural unions, the organizations associated with the countryside, the mountains, the forests and also, in an important way, the many organizations and industrial sectors that have approached the Socialist Parliamentary Group to send their contributions to this law, which they considered not to be correct. We are already in its final debate, the final debate of this law as well as that of many others who have passed it with their parliamentary roll, because it will again be so, a law that actually adds to a legislative battery that has endeavoured to adopt against the environment, against the environment, taking charge of the environmental protection system that you have already inherited in 2011 and which at that time equated us to the most advanced countries of Europe in our environment. It is an attack on natural and forest resources, it is a new cut in citizenship rights and, in addition, it is a law contrary to European rules and guidelines on the preservation of biodiversity. It's a shame the minister isn't here because a few days ago she said the ballot boxes were dangerous. The Environment Minister said the ballot boxes were dangerous and I wanted to tell her this afternoon that the danger was her, her and her dangerous law. I am never going to tell Mrs Tejerina that she will do Mr Cañete good because that is impossible, but impossible was also to do just as badly and she has already done so. See that I had it easy; the new Minister of the Environment had it easy, had the opportunity to correct mistakes and what she has done is the opposite: aggravate those mistakes even more. And it is unheard of that in a country like ours, with the immense natural and forest capital that we have, its policies have consisted of frontal attacks on the environment and its entire environment. Look - there is not Mrs De Lara, it is a shame - in all the debates that we have had with the popular ranks, from those popular ranks have reproached us not to understand that environmental and forest protection is not in conflict with economic development, and of course it is not in conflict with economic development, ladies and gentlemen, but, if it is not sustainable, it is a real failure. Spain is already leaving at this time an absolutely vital binomial for development, which is the economy and ecology, and there are many governments already, many companies from countries, as I told them, of our environment that are working on the economic effects and the social effects of what is already known as the overcoming of the planetary limits and these are not just the climate change or the loss of biodiversity, we talk about the lack of water and food, we talk about the intensity of the meteorological phenomena. Not reacting, ladies and gentlemen, is much more expensive than proper environmental policies, which we are proposing from the Socialist Group since the beginning of this parliamentary term. Of all this you have not learned, or have not wanted to know, that it is also another possible option; you have chosen environmental deregulation as a prerequisite for economic growth and that is where your mistake lies, because what is going to be approved here today is chaos on the mountain and, above all, a shortcut to the defence of interests, not of general interests, of your interests, of the interests of the Government and of the interests of the People's Party; interests in the management that opens the door to privatizations of mountains of public utility, interests to requalify land after the fires. With this text, speculation on burnt land is served even more in view of the amendment that comes from the Senate, an amendment that has been read here in competitive terms, but which also comes to exacerbate this possibility, as it extends to the State the power to reclassify burned land for reasons - see, I read textually - that are imperative of first order and that correspond to the general interest of the nation. I have said this because I have quoted it textually, all very subjective. With this law, I tell you very clearly, the Galicians can already get us confessed. They did not get what needed to be done with this amendment. Therefore, the Government, which privatizes and lowers the fight against fire, favours the purchase and business of burned land, this must be the conclusion that today is drawn from this law. Why are you in such a hurry to reform a 2007 project? The rush was this, the rush was to eliminate those thirty years that made it impossible for a land to be reclassified - which even you, gentlemen of the PP, described as unconstitutional -; that was the rush. The law also limits and attacks the work of environmental forest agents, and they do so because one of their objectives is to prevent these professionals from being independent. As the text of the law stands, and according to article 58 itself, officers will be limited to the first steps. Not only that, the attested will have to pass through higher filters of superiority, which is the one who will decide what is sent to the court and what is not. They undermine their authority and independence. Look, I'm talking about them and them, about forest agents who are professionals, who have worked effectively, people who are tremendously trained and with a great knowledge of the mountain. They did not deserve this treatment received in this law, they did not deserve it and neither did society. On the other hand, this is a law of mountains that will regulate the Tajo-Segura transfer, a legislative technique that you have abused until exhaustion. In this case, we are also - and let me tell you this - facing political insolence. The government approved the Tajo Memorandum in 2013, just after that agreement on Genoa Street, which was not a country agreement, ladies and gentlemen, which was a party agreement, an agreement of the PP, but the small detail is that, although in Aragon the PP ruled, they left it out too and their Courts appealed to the Constitutional Court which gave them the reason and gave it not only because this community should have been taken into account, but because it was not acceptable to have a fragmented management of the waters of the same basin. But it has given them the same, there is their insolence, they challenge the Constitutional again and claim that that sentence generated uncertainty. That is why I would like to state today that the report requested from the Courts has not appeared, there is no report, there is no report; however, that law is going to pass it equally. That report was mandatory because I have here the paper report where it is made clear visually - anyone who knows how to read it will be able to see it - that the report is mandatory. It's preceptive, and they've jumped it back into the bullfighter's. He's given them the same, and there's his insolence. They challenge the Constitutional, they also claim that that sentence generated uncertainty and this wanted to make it very clear today. It is a boldness that highlights more if it is necessary to defend the own interests that curiously always come into collision with the common interest or with the general interest. I'm finishing up. This is a law conceived from the productivity of the mountains, a law that does not content almost anyone, a legal brick, we have said many times, it is true, without territorial subsidiarity, a brick painted of green and with all the remaining ingredients in a basic law. Here the least has been the mountains and the forests, it is something similar to what they have approved in the new Penal Code. There they establish the criminal law of the enemy and here they plan a law for friends. Do not doubt that we will vote against the two amendments that come from the Senate. The other amendments are technical amendments, as the spokesman for UPyD said earlier. Two amendments are coming from the Senate, particularly the one I referred to earlier, which has to do with the fires. Moreover, ours is not a total and global non-law, a law that we reject from the beginning, ladies and gentlemen, a law that we try to improve during the parliamentary process and a law to which I wish very short life, because I am sure that we will win the elections and change it, do not have the slightest doubt. This goes from facts and their facts are laws aggressive against the environment. It is a painful legacy, gentlemen of the People's Party, to present and future generations. I'm sure they'll never forgive you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Seara. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Torres.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u226	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's debate we have reached the final stage of the processing of this bill. [[The lady]] Allow me to make a personal observation to you before you highlight the contributions made by this new mountain law. After the debates full of machaconous arguments about how badly the Government is doing so and the repeated criticism of two specific aspects that only confuse public opinion, I have the feeling that the text has not been read and that no attention has been paid to the amendments that, through amendments, have been incorporated into this bill, so we are starting from a bad start. I don't know how to tell you this, but given my condition as a mountain engineer, let me use a metaphor: the trees don't let you see the forest. You have an ankylated concept - I would say old and grunt - of what the mountain is; something that, as it is of all, cannot be touched. Bad starting point, ladies and gentlemen. We have repeatedly told you that in Spain we have more than 27.7 million hectares of forest land - that is, more than 54% of our country's area - and more than two thirds of this forest area is privately owned. We have natural resources, and we are not just talking about wood, which we must value. You show a lack of sensitivity with the owners and with the inhabitants of the rural area, limiting their possibilities for development. This draft amendment to the Montes Act has been prepared with the necessary holistic, inclusive and overall vision that requires a resource of importance and significance for Spain as is the Monte. The new law focuses on four main objectives: first, to protect biodiversity; secondly, to prevent forest fires; thirdly, to combat climate change; and, lastly, to improve the economic use of forest resources. We are therefore within the framework of management for the conservation of sustainable development, taking into account the global dimension that public intervention in this environment requires. It is essential to achieve the stated objectives to clarify the classification of mountains, to simplify management instruments, and to incorporate or adapt figures that facilitate management. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, the law introduces a clearer and more specific classification of the mountains, which can only belong to a category according to the criteria of ownership - public or private - and whether that mountain fulfils a function of general interest. With regard to management tools, mountains that perform a public utility function need to have a tool for their planning. On the other hand, the autonomous communities will be able to establish model management models according to the characteristics of the different mountains. In addition, more detailed legislation has been adopted on the range of partners, which facilitates their management and creates the status of forest societies, which facilitate groupings for the common use of forest land. This law also regulates exceptional situations of forest use change when a fire has occurred. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the express prohibition of changing use for thirty years on a set-aside is maintained. With this new exception - new because in the current law you have already introduced three grounds of exception - it is intended to prevent a fire from performing actions in the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, this exception to the change in forest use that you criticize is already reflected in the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act of 2007 - by the way, it is now in parliamentary procedure - to prevent actions nothing more and nothing less than in spaces in the Natura 2000 Network. However, we have not heard any criticism of this exception, which would be a reproach to your way of legislating and a reproach to yourselves. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that this exception to the change in forest use was analysed, debated and endorsed by the Council of State, which you use arbitrarily according to your interests. Ladies and gentlemen of the various opposition groups, that is enough demagogy. Be consistent and stop distorting reality. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, not only are mountain management plans not removed, but they are still mandatory for public-owned and protective mountains. With the reform of the Socialist Government in 2006, management plans were mandatory for all mountains above a minimum extent. This reform has been shown to be not very successful over time, as only 14% of Spain's forest area has a management tool. This means that the rural environment does not have the contribution that the mountains could make to its development. That is why this law gives an impetus to forest management, which means ensuring the proper and effective sustainable management of our mountains, in addition to fighting that scourge of forest fires, as we are seeing these days. Other aspects such as hunting, fishing, the establishment of the National Forestry Council, registration, the sanctioning regime, the movement on forest tracks, as mentioned here a while ago, and a long time ago have been covered in this bill. This law clarifies the position of forest agents in their position as a judicial police in the generic sense, in support of the State Security Forces and Bodies, which are the judicial agents in the strict sense. It is also clarified that it is the competent judicial bodies, the prosecutor's office and the investigating judge who must define whether an act is criminally wrongful or merely an administrative offence. It therefore defines the responsibility of forest agents to avoid further confusion between the different functions of surveillance, inspection and police. Forest agents are agents of the authority. They don't lose any competition. They will continue to investigate and report how many conducts they understand are coming from, as they are currently doing. And it will be the administration of the autonomous community on which they depend that determines the procedure to follow in order to bring the facts to the attention of the corresponding authority. Do not be confused, ladies and gentlemen, what this law seeks is to ensure the maximum effectiveness and agility in the prosecution of administrative offences or offences committed against the environment. The Group of the European People's Party has shown its willingness, in the parliamentary procedure, to clarify the aspects that have been misinterpreted in this matter. He did so and yet you continue with the same speech. In short, ladies and gentlemen, land burned for urban purposes will not be reclassified, forest agents will not be degraded and mountain management plans will not be abolished. In addition, the law brings news that we have not heard of in the whole parliamentary process, either for good or for bad. This law also complies with the Constitutional Court's ruling of last February, which declared unconstitutional certain precepts contained in Law 21/2013 on environmental assessment, specifically referred to the Tajo-Segura transfer. With regard to the amendments that come to us from the Senate, they are clarifications to the text. One, with regard to article 33, entrusting the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment with the task of collaborating in the development of a forest-type management model with the autonomous communities, facilitating its development and trying to avoid large differences in forms of management in areas that are similar, although administratively different. Others, on article 50, which seeks to make it clear that where overriding reasons of first-class public interest arise from actions declared to be of general interest on the basis of article 149.124.a of the Constitution, it is the General Courts which are competent to adopt a law recognizing such reasons, which establishes on the basis of them the need for change of use and appropriate compensatory measures. In other cases, they will be the legislative chambers of the Autonomous Communities. In both cases, on the basis of the above-mentioned law, the autonomous community must make the change of use in accordance with its own procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the necessary adaptations of a law that will soon be twelve years old, which has already undergone an amendment in 2006 and which must respond to the new demands and expectations of our rural environment. We must make possible the harmony between traditional cultures, the conservation of nature and the economic development of our mountains. Finally, and I am finishing, President, now comes to my head the motto that presides over the shield of the Escuela de Ingenieros de Montes, of which I am a part and which leaves no room for doubt: Knowing is doing. The one who doesn't know. Little has been done by you, ladies and gentlemen, during the process of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Torres.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u228	We then proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals. We begin with the motion following urgent questioning by the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, on measures the Government intends to take in the face of mortgage evictions. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, you have the floor Mr Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u229	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Two weeks ago, I had the opportunity to ask the Government, in general, about its housing policy and, specifically, the issue of evictions. It did so under the terms of the report submitted almost 24 hours earlier by Amnesty International with regard to the Spanish State's compliance with its commitments to various international treaties, in particular on the question of the right to housing. We did so in a framework in which - as we told the Government - housing evictions in our country have systematically increased year after year - and this has been reflected in the data for the first quarter of this year; an alarming situation, which is also framed by genuinely impressive data when compared with other countries in our environment. Only 2% of our country's housing is social housing or has some kind of social contribution, compared to much higher percentages in other countries in our environment, from 32% in the Netherlands to 17% in France. In addition, in our country there are more than 3,400,000 empty housing units of diverse ownership. Ladies and gentlemen, that accounts for 30% of empty housing throughout the European Union. There is no justification for this data in our country. The Amnesty International report raised all these issues and, above all, how in our country a principle or a right, such as the right to housing, as enshrined in article 47 of the Constitution, is systematically not covered by the public authorities, because they have not developed it legally by means of a specific law providing for how the rights enshrined in article 47 can be claimed by citizenship before the judiciary. In our intervention, we also call for the validity of article 128 of the Constitution, which subordinates to the general interest all the wealth of the country, and which in some cases raises blisters when we remember it but which is certainly absolutely relevant when it comes to talking about the huge number of empty dwellings and the violation of the right to housing that citizens of this country have. That is why we have tabled this motion, which contains 14 concrete proposals to try to solve the problems that Amnesty International's report raised and which we have drawn from the report itself. Your ladies and gentlemen know this, but I cannot overlook some fundamental issues, such as the amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act, which is called for in the first paragraph; the establishment of mechanisms to oversee negotiations between the parties when there is going to be an eviction, so that there will be equality of arms - it is said - between the two; that all evictions will be halted until these two issues are put in place and the judges can personally monitor each eviction and not simply be a number in the Property Registry, but that specific consideration will be given to the fulfilment or safeguarding of the family's right to housing that is intended to be evicted. From there, we also propose to expand the social housing stock, that is, to correct the housing policy being developed by the Government and that, from our point of view - not only from the point of view of our parliamentary group - it is absolutely insufficient and therefore that the autonomous communities which, in large part, have transferred the competition on housing be assisted by the State to implement new measures and improvements in access to housing. In this regard, the active policies that make the development of article 47 of the Constitution a reality are absolutely basic for us. We are also planning the ratification by the Spanish Government, the Spanish State, the European Social Charter and its additional protocol. We plan to implement the recommendations of the international human rights monitoring bodies, as called for in the Amnesty International report. Although we are at the end of the legislature and know that the limitations are important, the Government of Spain claims that before the end of the term we will process the General Budgets of the State, so it is absolutely relevant that a bill on the right to housing be brought in order to safeguard constitutional rights. We also propose that when collecting data on evictions of dwellings - which, as was made clear in the inquiry, have significant shortcomings, since they are not collected in detail and disaggregated - the National Statistical Institute collects information disaggregated by gender, age, nationality, housing conditions, mortgages, evictions and so on, because it is a basic instrument of public administrations, of any of them, to have the most concrete and complete data possible to implement any type of policy. We complement the proposals with issues relating to necessary training within the Justice Administration and the conduct of an up-to-date census of empty housing that can serve as a basic tool for highlighting this huge number of empty housing in our country. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a series of measures that my parliamentary group has moved from the report that Amnesty International has made. The House's parliamentary groups - I conclude - have tabled amendments. The Socialist Group wants to add four points. It seems very good to my group and we do not have the least inconvenience in adding them to the fourteen we have raised. And the Convergence and Union Group has moved a proposal to amend some points. The only problem we have with this proposal, which we could accept in order to add more votes to the proposal originally tabled by my group, is that it makes the specific reference to the Sareb disappear. If the reference to the Sareb is maintained and we can see it in the agreement, there would be no problem on the part of my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u230	Mr. Sixto, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u231	I conclude by referring to a news that has appeared today in the Valencian press, which alarms many communities of owners, speaking precisely of the Sareb: the huge debt, of all these houses that have been the object of eviction and recovery by the banks, that the Sareb and the banks are accumulating with the communities of owners and that systematically increases without the Government of Spain doing anything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u232	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. I have the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u233	Thank you very much, Madam President. We have tabled a number of amendments to the Plural Left Group motion, but before referring to them, I would like to stress how much concern we have been about the Minister of Economy's intervention in relation to mortgages. We have seen a wealthy minister of the economy, pointing out guilty and criticizing the inaction of previous governments, perhaps forgetting that he has been in government for almost four years and that the citizens voted to take measures to solve the problems. - This on the one hand. He has then continued to roam, defending measures as if they worked, turning his back on the reality of the day-to-day, because we are seeing that evictions are on the order of the day. I am not saying this, but the General Council of the Judiciary in one of the many statistical data we have, because it is true that there is a lack of data to gather and know the magnitude of the problem, because the problem is great, but we must see exactly what data we are referring to. By taking one, the General Council of the Judiciary says that the rise has increased by 6%, that in 2013 there were 25,811 evictions and that in 2014 there were 28,000, but behind these evictions there are families. They are not cold numbers; there are people who lose the most deprived of privacy, which is their home. It is therefore a matter that directly affects the day-to-day lives of families and the loss of housing is a matter that should have occupied the Government from the minute one took office. The fact that they were the first to take action and the fact that they did not work is no guarantee of anything. You can be the first to do nothing. This is the conclusion we have seen from Convergence and from Union on the measures. It is no exaggeration to say that the Minister of the Economy is not now able to solve the problems, in particular the problem of housing evictions and the launchings as a result of the non-payment of rent. Moreover, as a citizen - no longer as a deputy - I am not at all comfortable that executions result in evictions and these in illegal occupations, because it is the only way to give solution, viability and roof to families who lack it. We have a problem as a society if we continue to tolerate the existence of illegal occupations because, on the other hand, what they do is harm the families who are paying their mortgages every day, while at the end seeing that these illegal occupations are the only ones that give effective solution - with kick at the door - that give housing solutions to families. The problem is no less. On the basis of this non-action of the Government, in Convergence i de Unió we have presented over the course of the legislature multiple initiatives and we wanted to translate them through amendments to the text of the motion submitted to us by the Plural Left and which we share. I simply want to contextualize the question of the suspension of all procedures for the mortgage execution of habitual housing. In 2012, the then spokesman for the Convergence i Unió Parliamentary Group, Mr Duran, sent a letter to Minister De Guindos asking him to suspend the evictions to deal on a case-by-case basis with what was going on, because we knew that there were mortgages with abusive clauses, with ground clauses, with abusive interests. Surely, by being able to rationalize all this contractual reality of imbalance between the two parties, it would have been possible to face many families and continue to pay the mortgage fee because, by removing certain obstacles, the main obligation, which is the payment, would have been to respect and maintain the housing. That's what we should have been worried about from the very beginning. We have also wanted to reflect that it is essential to implement a compulsory mediation, and here I want to bring to the fore the Code of Consum de Catalunya, which, as of April 1, 2014, has established this compulsory mediation in cases of default of debts affecting the first house, whether rent or mortgage, and in fact the courts and tribunals of Catalonia do not allow to process executive claims that have not passed or accredited a prior mediation. This is something you should take note of and we hope to see the positive results of this measure soon. In conclusion, we want to introduce a map of a housing stock to know where the empty dwellings are and where the homeless families are, because it is true that the Social Housing Fund is not giving way to the needs of the families because they are located where there are no specific contributions from the fund. There will be no problem in trying to deal with the issue of the Sareb because the Sareb is negotiating with the autonomous communities, specifically with Catalonia, the transfer of housing. Sareb also has a problem when it comes to...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u234	Mrs. Ciuro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u235	...run this housing park you have. We therefore explore the way to include what the spokesman for the Plural Left has told us to vote in favour of this motion because I think it is essential that they take letters on the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u236	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Mrs Iglesias has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u237	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Ciuro, it is curious that from east to west of the peninsular territory we have the same feeling of the debate that took place here about the interpellation of the Plural Left. As for the Minister of the Economy, it seemed that the thing was not going with him, that in the interpellation in this House he did nothing but throw balloons out. He is a minister of economics who comes up to the forum of the Congress of Deputies and seems to have no effect on people's economic problems. He is a coming minister of economics who seems not to understand that the real estate bubble also passes through it, that it is not something alien to his government or his political party, as if the liberalization of the soil, the amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act, the modification of the fixed or variable interest rates had not passed through decisions made by his governments, as if those decisions had not already been recognized, for a long time, as the origin of the real estate bubble, as if there were not all the indications today that they had even been financed by the sale and speculation of the soil. He is a minister of economics who loses all responsibility, pointing out that most of the marketing of late loans occurred while they were ruling others, without even remembering that he, just before the fall of Lehman Brothers, was engaged in selling junk mortgages, just when those late loans were produced. [[Applauds]] What is more serious is that he is a minister of economics who lies. He lies to conscience when he claims to be the first Government to act. Even the Convergence and Union Group has come to repeat that mantra that is not true. Already in 2007 and 2009 measures were taken, for example, to limit the unimpeded minimums or to increase the minimum percentages of the award of the property. By saying that they were the first, by saying that they have already done something, it seems that they have completed the dossier and the problems of the citizens have been solved. That's it, we did something, we put in place a code of good practice. And that's what we did? Have we solved it? Is it solved? No, no, [[The Lord]] Do you really understand that the problem is solved by a law such as the one being dealt with at this time that does not guarantee access to housing? How is it possible for a Government to seek to ensure access to housing by asking that all property be executed by citizens before giving them an opportunity? How is it possible that they want to do so by charging, through housing policy, VPOs? How is it possible that they want to do this by allowing their autonomous and municipal governments to sell the social housing that we have built among all to speculate again through vulture funds? How do they intend to create such a social alternative to housing? On the same day that Minister of Economy went up to throw out balloons, Amnesty International presented us with a report that was much closer to reality. The conclusions of Amnesty International's report are that all that has been done to date is insufficient and also violates international human rights law. We can add some more qualifier: it is a real failure as forced evictions continue to occur massively in our country, of people who do not pay because they do not want to, but do not pay because they cannot; of people who have contracted a credit with one goal: to access a house, something that should never be above their possibilities, but for which today they are paying a very high price. I will give an example of the failure: the words of the Vice President of the Government on the day of this legislature when, according to her own denomination, she became sentimental, and said: This can happen to anyone. A solidarity society is capable of putting itself on the skin of those who have suffered without being responsible for it. I want to know whether the keys that we sign today in the constitution of the Social Housing Fund are the door to hope month by month. Well, of those words 905 days ago. In those 905 days, 170,000 mortgage evictions have begun. Do you know how the Social Housing Fund is going in those 905 days? According to published data, which do not necessarily reproduce Mr. De Guindos, 5,040 of those 6,000 dwellings are still available. It is a major failure, so the motion tabled today by The Plural Left, based on those recommendations of Amnesty International, will be supported by the Socialist Group, to which we add some issues in order to increase this social alternative of housing and to generate greater protection for citizens, to prevent the use of social housing for speculation and to guarantee abusive clauses. They are all necessary measures; they are all aimed at the rescue we need, the rescue of families. They are complementary to those that are being adopted from the minute one in the new local and autonomous governments in which we have assumed responsibilities, because if in anything we are going to be radical - yes, radical, to go to the root -, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u238	Mrs. Iglesias, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u239	... it's about ending evictions. I'm done, President. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u240	Thank you very much, Mrs. Iglesias. Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor in the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u241	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that in our view, and analyzing everything that has happened in recent years in relation to evictions, those agreements, measures or actions that the Government has carried out have been driven by social mobilization. If there is no such social mobilization, ladies and gentlemen, we do not see the Government - we did not see it at any time - prepared to act on the dramatic situation created by the evictions and, in particular, the tremendous evictions of families that we were able to see for many months; we did not, as I say, see much willingness in the Government to do so. But fortunately, the social mobilization - and why not say so, also the initiatives of the opposition groups - made it possible for there to be some movements, although obviously few. As few as today's evictions are on the order of the day, although we have to bear in mind that after the last mobilization - in this electoral case - in which the government party has been severely punished, and the results indicate this, there are political leaders from autonomous communities or municipalities that are currently acting. I am thinking, for example, of the President of the Xunta de Galicia, who is now - now yes - putting on the table a series of measures to prevent evictions, on the one hand, or to alleviate them with certain benefits to families. But it has had to be now, after the social mobilizations and after the electoral defeat. Ladies and gentlemen, our group is going to support this motion tabled by the Plural Left and defended by Mr Sixto because we share each and every one of the points raised in it, given that we are also aware of Amnesty International's report which deals very deeply with this issue. We are concerned that as long as there is this situation of desperation of many families in the face of evictions, 30% of housing is empty in the State, more than 3 million housing units. Ladies and gentlemen, this is because instead of building to guarantee the right to housing, it was being built to ensure the movement of economic funds and, in any case, the enrichment of a few. Nor is the Spanish State an example of social housing in this case, because it is the State of the European Union that has the least social housing available to citizens, barely 1.1%. But we are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, that the report of the Council of the Judiciary states that in the last two years more than 100,000 families have been evicted from their usual homes and that in the first three months of 2015 everything indicates that the same tonic will be followed; that the results in 2015 will be similar to those of 2014. That is why the various points presented by the Plural Left motion seem to us to be very correct and, I say again, that from the Galego Nationalist Block we are going to give you our favourable vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u242	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr Olabarría has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u243	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are going to vote in favour of the motion put forward by the Group of the Plural Left in its own terms because it seems to us to be acquittal and in line with Amnesty International's report, not without regret - if I may say so, Mr President - the relativization of the political concepts that opinionaries are practicing at the end of this parliamentary term. We are talking about radical parties and radicalism, and within this discourse there have been radical parties such as the Italian party that were scratching in the acracy, other radical parties in other countries are ultra-right and other radical parties are ultra-left. There is talk of socialism and Duverger already commented that his wealth lies precisely in his inability to define the concept. There is talk of Christian humanism, conservative parties, liberal parties. Any empirical approach to these concepts in the current times is a pure utopia. Let me say this, Mr President, in order to regret some of the elements of confusion that accompany us. It is very good what they have presented because it is in line with what Amnesty International recommends, but it is very good because duties have been done in several areas. Nicolás Sartorius, a well-known person, has just written a book - which Mr Sixto will surely have read - in which he comments that, despite the fact that the right to housing is recognized in a precept that does not allow the constitutional court to apply for protection - is located in article 47, not among the fundamental rights that are those that are between articles 14 to 29 of the Constitution - when a launch takes place - says Mr Sartorius - almost all the fundamental rights provided for in articles 14 to 29 of the Constitution are being violated. Of course, article 19, the right to choose residence; article 18, the right to privacy and honour; article 17, the right to liberty and security, all that is to be seen is the aggression that is being suffered by many people who are being launched and homeless; the right to education; the right to participate in public affairs. The conclusion could be drawn, if Mr Sartorius is right and my impression is that he has it, that the constitutional court could be invoked on the grounds of launch. It is a somewhat convoluted and perhaps speculative eventuality but it would be reasonable and, of course, coincide with what is advocated in the Plural Left Group motion. On the other hand, Mr President, the Government has also not done its duty to comply with a judgment decided by the Court of the European Union on the basis of a preliminary question raised by a Catalan judge in which it not only obliges the pre-emption of so-called unfair terms, but also other requirements which would oblige not only the reform of the Civil Procedure Act, but also the very configuration of the mortgage contract as conceived in the Spanish Civil Code at the moment. It has not been done; approximations have been made but obviously not only insufficient approximations, but even sometimes contradictory with the requirements of this judgment that I am quoting; like the codes of good practice, periprasis in the end goodists who intend to approach the fulfilment of an obligation that is already legal for the Spanish State and that has not been fulfilled. Therefore, some of the requirements of this motion are incardinated in this petition that we also share. Also the Second Opportunity Act, another approach that does not end in bloating the tooth to the truncated question, which is the subsistence of abusive clauses. The data we handle, which are those of the General Council of the Judiciary and others - it would not be wrong to agree on how many launches, evictions and mortgage executions we are living together - we are told that from 2008 to 2014 there have been 578,546 evictions, launches in the Spanish State. A spectacular figure that puts us in the ranking of the countries where more foreclosures with launch occur. This can be combined with the fact that the Spanish State is one of the countries with the lowest social housing stock in the European Union; the comparison of 2% with 32% in the Netherlands, 23% in Austria, 18% in the United Kingdom and other examples, Mr President, is odious. This is combined with the fact that in this matter in which legal obligations are being breached, some arising from judgments of the European Court and others from our Constitution and from requirements which are due to a minimal, almost superficial sensitivity in the field of social justice...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u244	Mr. Olabarria, you've been lit red. Since you don't see it, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u245	What's the red on me? I thank you for the recommendation, Mr President, but it is superfluous because it was going to end right now. Mr Sixto has made a very balanced approach in his proposals and all of them will be voted in favour by our group. I thank you, Mr President, first of all for the expansions of an ideological nature that enabled me at the beginning of my speech and also for being so jealous of the admonition of the use of time, which is not bad in the case of some Members of this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u246	Mr. Olabarria, I just wanted to give you something you couldn't see. The Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy has the floor, Mr Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. I shall speak briefly to say that my group will also vote in favour of this motion. I understand that a compromise will be sought, but since the meaning of the amendments that have been tabled is consistent with the spirit of the motion, we have no inconvenience. In fact, it seems to us good that it is oriented towards a problem that is always revolutionizing in the debate on evictions, housing, second chance, mortgage law, etc., which is the right to housing. It's something to talk about, it can't stay in a purely virtual right. It is true that in the case of Spain there may have been a problem with the successive administrations and parties that have been taking place at the head of them, which has been to direct the right to housing towards the right to own housing, which are different things, not going towards the right to usufruct, which is what it really is about. For example, most of the offers that have been made in Spain by VPO have been offers of officially owned housing, something my group has always considered to be a mistake. We have recently had the satisfaction that a legal reform has been adopted in the Basque Parliament so that all offers from VPOs can be rented out; we believe that this is where the practical part of the matter should be directed. We agree, as it cannot be otherwise, that everything that has been done in this legislature on access to housing and protection of the right to housing has been very inadequate. Although there has been some improvement with the approved Second Opportunity Act, there are still abusive clauses everywhere and much legislative development remains to be done. That is why we are going to support this motion in the hope that also - of course, we do not have much to do with something positive in this parliamentary term - a way will be opened up for the resolution of an important issue in the next parliamentary term. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Mr Floriano has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u249	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall make a few comments to justify my group's position on the initiative put forward by Mr Sixto. I believe that the economic crisis has put before us a reality in which evictions, launches, evictions are possibly one of its most dramatic manifestations. Following Mr Olabarría's intervention, there are a number of fundamental rights which, from my point of view, cannot be exercised in such cases. I was thinking of the protection of children, the right to personal and family privacy, in which there is a situation of non-exercise of these fundamental rights. But it is very important to identify the origin of these situations that are part of today's debate and part of us to make a calm, sensible and real analysis to try to legislate in order to solve this problem. What is the origin of this situation? I believe that the economic crisis that has occurred in all the countries of our environment has had a special depth in Spain, in our country. The depth with which the crisis has occurred in our country stems from a certain economic policy. Note that the gross domestic product, income, is reduced four times the total income of the euro area countries and there is a destruction of employment, which is four times what was given in the rest of Europe. In that economic policy that caused this destruction of employment is where we can find the root and root cause of some of the data - the non-real data mentioned in this rostrum of course not - that provoke the situation we are debating today. It is an economic policy that I want to remind you - Mr Sixto, you were not in that legislature here - that your group supported and applauded; and when you did not applaud it or did not support it, you did not do it because you wanted to walk in the opposite direction, but because it seemed to you that what the Socialist Party was doing was not very intense and that we had to continue with more intensity in the same direction. It is therefore an economic policy that provokes and generates these situations of eviction to occur with such intensity. There have been those who have tried to defame and have tried to denigrate the People's Party by grabbing the patrimony of defending the most vulnerable, when the truth is that the policies that some defend are the origin of the intensity of the crisis, the origin of the damage to the conditions of the people on whose behalf they say they speak. That is why economic policy had to be changed, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why reform had to be made in order to be able to resolve the situation in which we are. And that's why it's getting that where there's economic decline, now there's growth, and where there's job destruction, now there's job creation. But also, aware of the current situation, the situations of the most vulnerable, the most urgent and the most needy had to be addressed. With regard to your attitude and the attitude of the rest of the groups supporting this initiative, I would like to ask why you have opposed the immediate suspension and for a two-year period of evictions from families at particular risk of exclusion, because my group has voted yes and you have all voted no. Why have they opposed the immediate suspension and for a period of two years from the launch of those in a situation of special vulnerability? Because my group has voted yes and you have all voted no. Did it seem like a short time to you? In that case, why have they opposed the suspension of launches instead of two years out of four? Because you have voted no to the initiative my group was putting forward to suspend the launches for four years. Why have they opposed the creation of the social housing fund? Or why have they opposed, for example, the limitation of interest on arrears in order to prevent debt from multiplying by default? Because my group has voted yes to that, you have opposed it. Why have they opposed limiting the value of housing valuation so that the auction is not less than 75% of the value of the deed? Not only are they opposed to reforms that have allowed economic policy to emerge from the crisis situation faced by many families, but they are also radically opposed to many of the initiatives to alleviate the situation of the most vulnerable, the most urgent, people. I don't want to make judgment of intentions, but what moves you to that no-repetition? Do you want to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u250	Mr. Floriano, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u251	Give me a minute. Or stand in front of a banner to pull out a few votes using the pain of the people who suffer the most? Because we are now seeing it: municipalities governed by you or your partners and prominent members of the platforms now with government responsibilities sign decrees to execute the launches, as, for example, has happened in Barcelona, i.e. reached power, abandon the banner and begin to enforce laws. Ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of the shortness of the Rules of Procedure, I will make one last comment and, Mr Sixto, do not think that it is because of you, that you do not customize it, but let me tell you that I am grateful that you are presenting these initiatives here and that we can discuss them calmly, that we can discuss them and contrast them, because until two years ago these kinds of issues were translated into surrounding our houses, surrounding us, insulting us to try to impose by force of voices what they are not able to impose by force of votes or arguments. Therefore, thank you very much for bringing these initiatives, but I think you should realize that because they are yours, the results are not always good, because the results of many of the initiatives that you have supported and carried out during the last legislature have resulted in a situation that we are trying to resolve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u252	Thank you, Mr Floriano. Mr Sixto, what is your position on the amendments made?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u253	I would like to inform the House that we are going to present a compromise that will reflect the Socialist Group's proposal and the fundamentals of the Convergence i Group's proposal, taking up the reference that is made to the Sareb in the fourth paragraph of our motion and that we will soon move to the Bureau of the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u254	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the Financial Sufficiency of the Autonomous Communities and Local Entities. [[File number 173/000226]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u255	Motion for a resolution by the Socialist Group on the financial sufficiency of the Autonomous Communities and local authorities. Mr Rangel has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u256	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone doubts at all that the origin of the crisis lies in the casino capitalism that led us to deregulation and dragged the Western economy. Nor does anyone doubt that the exit from the crisis that the People's Party is offering us is more inequality - ladies and gentlemen, they are like the pyromaniac fireman - and in the transit to that model that they want to consolidate of inequality what they have done has been to imbue the autonomous communities and the municipalities, the territorial administrations, since they are constitutionally responsible for providing services that either guarantee redistribution or, above all, generate mechanisms of equality such as health, education and social care. To hold the backs of local corporations and autonomous communities, it has been to modify certain mechanisms that have to do with the availability of resources of both institutions or to directly amend legislation by disabling municipalities from many of their powers. Not only have the municipalities lost their powers, but their very essence as a local government has been attacked. In fact, the amendment that was approved by the absolute majority of the People's Party seeks to make them unique and exclusively into mere guardianship administrations. They have violated their autonomy, stolen their ability to act in the interests of the neighbouring community and, ultimately, attacked their essence as territorial administrations. They have done so and we said it in the interpellation, although it has been precisely the municipalities that have become the mattress that has cushioned many of the harmful consequences of their policies for the majority of the population. Consequently, in our motion, we propose the return of the municipalities in their capacity as government, as well as those powers for the provision of social services and for the promotion and social reintegration of health, consumption, equality, employment policies and those matters in which, by virtue of their status of power closest to the citizen, if they lead me to organised civil society, they allow them to continue to carry out effective intervention in real or potential situations of social exclusion. In addition, of course, by providing them with the funding corresponding to those powers. As for the autonomous communities, they have been the real protagonists in the effort to reduce the public deficit at the cost of cuts in policies as I mentioned earlier on in health, education and social care. And to turn them upside down, the government has refused to propose an improvement in its revenue through the mandatory revision of the autonomous funding model that should have entered into force in January 2014. It is still curious that they criticize this funding model - the current model, which had a revision forecast and which has not operated because of its political will - and, instead, refuse to improve it. That seems a contradiction, because they always make it clear that this model is so bad that it has to be left there to rot and so that the autonomous communities do not have financial sufficiency. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing a double measure. On the one hand, review the deficit target that has been set for the autonomous communities, setting them a new one that is more manageable, equitable and consistent with their competencies and characteristics. On the other hand, review the model of autonomous financing and establish a model based on a more equitable vertical distribution of income according to territorial distribution and political power. A model that ensures financial sufficiency and has a levelling system that is simple, transparent, effective and non-distorting. A model that ensures that all citizens, regardless of where they live, have equal access to essential public services. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, I have already told the Minister in the question that his political project is exhausted. This is perceived by the citizens and has been demonstrated in the last elections. They have been told that their problem is not of communication, as the President of the Government says, but of their policies. They want policies to change, but they also want the government to change. The government has passed the legislature talking about inheritance and, by the way, they are going to leave us a very heavy one: the fabulous increase in public debt. They talk rather little about it, to say nothing; they are turning it away from the media focus. These days we are experiencing serious convulsions in the European Union. Let us hope that this crisis will be resolved positively for all the Member States and for the Union as a whole and, above all, for the citizens, so that they do not have to undergo new adjustments; but the risks to which the huge increase in debt exposes us are to hope that they will not put us back in the eye of the hurricane. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u257	Thank you very much, Mr Rangel. An amendment by the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union has been tabled to this motion. I have said one amendment, but there may be two. First, you have the word - and he will explain it - Mr Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u258	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the State has preferred to finance the autonomous communities extraordinarily through loans and credits rather than - and I say - against the provisions of the law on a regular basis through a new funding system. Last year we should have the new funding system and it is clear that we do not have it; a new disloyalty of the Government of the State. What does the Democratic Union of Catalonia add to the amendment we have made? Four points. First, we call for the effective participation of the autonomous communities in the income that has been raised by the increase in VAT and certain excise duties. Secondly, the change in the amount of deliveries on account of the autonomous financing system in order to bring it into line with the evolution of tax revenues collected. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes no sense for the autonomous communities to receive a lower amount in 2015 than they received in 2012, when there is a revival of the economy and an increase in tax collection. Third point. The allocation and transfer of the payment to the Competitiveness Fund for the years 2014 and 2015. And fourthly, the monetaryization of the principle of institutional loyalty, which is forgotten by the Government in every revision of the system of financing the autonomous communities. And we claim it, not out of whim, ladies and gentlemen. We demand this because of institutional loyalty and legality and, above all, as Mr Rangel said, for the benefit of all citizens. I do not think that Mr Montoro, who will be meeting at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council in 25 minutes, will listen to us, but it would be important for him to be here to hear it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. Mr Sayós has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unity.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President. The motion tabled today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is nothing new for our parliamentary group. We agree with this initiative but with nuances. Hence our amendment, which is nothing more than to add, to the Socialist initiative. We all know that the Spanish Constitution is pronounced by a State with political decentralization. Any lawyer, any official, knows this because it is on the agenda of the opposition, anyone who exercises politics, all but the State, but this Government. A State with political decentralization recognizes within it the pluralism of centres with its own and autonomous political power. In other words, a self-governing community is not only granted the right to self-government, but also the Constitution recognizes the right to self-governance, i.e. to make political decisions on its own within the framework of the Constitution and, consequently, to dictate the legal rules it creates for the solution of its own problems. This is a true autonomous state and not what the Spanish state is doing, with the People's Party government, with autonomy. Another example is the poor legislative practice emanating from the Government of the People's Party, with which it is also committed, day after day, to re-centralizing its own power to the State itself, without respecting the constitutional powers or the bloc of constitutionality. In this respect, also with constitutional protection, the essential element of the principle of autonomy of the autonomous communities is added. Even so, the current Government does not show any respect for these principles and is trying to apply through article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, i.e. the intervention of the State, both in the economic sphere, for example, without taking into account the fiscal balances, as well as in the political sphere, for example, by reducing the constitutionally protected powers when this, that of the intervention of the State, should be an extraordinary way. The initiative presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group calls for the principle of solidarity. Hence our nuances: to give transparency to this principle. The last time the tax balances were published was in 2005. I must point out that the principle of solidarity must be understood as an essential instrument more among the autonomous communities and that this constitutes the inter-territorial compensation fund, in order to correct the inter-territorial economic imbalances and to give effect to the principle of solidarity, whose resources, intended for investment expenses, will be distributed by the General Courts among the autonomous communities, in accordance with article 158 of the Constitution. But I would also like to recall that the principle of solidarity has limits and must be quantified and measured. Article 156 of the Constitution establishes the financial autonomy of the Autonomous Communities to fulfil and exercise their powers. Instead, the Government has chosen to limit the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities and protect their sources of funding, providing cash flow, via FLA or through Fund to suppliers. The saddest and most unfair thing is that the resources that belong to the autonomous communities, but that the state refuses to anticipate this year, are financing the state itself. So ridiculous. For what? We knew the other day with President Rajoy's announcement...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u261	Mrs. Sayos, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u262	I'm done, Mr. President. We learned the other day with President Rajoy's announcement about the advance of the IRPF rebate foreseen in the tax reform. In other words, the Government collects more from the autonomous communities and, instead of reinvesting in them, the Government funds its own electoral campaign. It's over, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this PP government does not respect either the principle of autonomy or the principle of economic sufficiency or the principle of subsidiarity in the field of social services; in short, in the field of welfare policies. This is a very serious political mistake, because there are children, young people, people, families who need special attention, not only care but vital for their livelihood. This is our duty and this is also your duty. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u263	Thank you very much, Mrs. Outós. Mr Baldoví has the floor in the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said it yesterday, there's a new word that FAES has put to walk this summer and that uses it as a bold weapon, and it's the radical word. Is being radical a strong advocate that all citizens of the State have the right to the same opportunities? To be radical is to demand that Valencians have access to the same public services as other citizens of the State? Because now we cannot pay them, we do not receive sufficient resources to provide the services we have transferred. I'm not saying it, Mr. Montoro says it over and over again. The debt in 2014, when governing the People's Party here in Madrid and there in the Valencian Generalitat, went up nothing more and nothing less than 5 billion. When Mr Rajoy became president, every Valencian owed 4,200 euros. In 2014, when they left the Generalitat, we owe 7,500 euros. One of two, or the rulers of the People's Party have been very useless or, so I lean, is that funding is very, very, very insufficient. Is a person who has been mayor and councillor of Social Services of his people, Swedish, who knows the importance of the municipalities - the nearest administration - managing, by putting two examples, social services or employment policies and asking that these competences be returned to the municipalities? Especially the small municipalities, like Riola, of which right now there are two councillors here in the rostrum. If that's being radical, I confess, I'm radical, even if some are ashamed of the word. But I am radical in the first sense of the Spanish Royal Academy: To go to the root, to the fundamental, to equality, to justice. I'm done. On the other hand, you, gentlemen of the People's Party, who boast of moderates and seriouss are radically unfair for not putting an end to inequality. Famous President Puig said: If the parameters do not change, the Valencian Generalitat is inviable. And said the Sindic de Compromís in Les Corts Valencianes: Either the financing is negotiated at a table or will be done in the courts. We are voting in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u265	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u266	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just received the displeasure that I have two minutes. The first question I would like to point out, on behalf of the Canarian nationalists, is that we are going to support the content of this motion without reservation of any kind. Let us talk about our book on this subject. In October 2013, I tabled a motion formulated in the same terms from the canarian perspective, which does not mean that we are not fully aware of the very serious situation of deterioration in the living conditions of the population that has occurred throughout the State, although we believe that in the Canary Islands in an aggravated way and, unfortunately, we can prove it with the data of unemployment above 30%; long-term unemployed, 68%; youth unemployment, above 56%, blah, blah, blah. And in addition to this, an unjust autonomous financing - it recognized until Minister Soria in his time of councillor of the Treasury of the Government of the Canary Islands - that leads to the Canary Islands to lose 800 million euros a year. They are two points of their GDP, a lot of money, and it has an immediate impact on basic public services, precisely when people need more social mattresses, which becomes dramatic, not to mention the absolutely unfair treatment in the State's General Budgets. If in this thesis those who have to make the effort are precisely those who are closest to the citizens, but those who have to guarantee this type of services and do not practice the effort are those who are furthest away from the citizens and are those who use it for other things that are not the general interest, this motion becomes essential. Maybe, maybe, given the pre-electoral circumstances in which we are, someone's consciousness is removed. This motion is pure common sense, so we are going to support it and we trust that you will get the House's general support. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u267	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo, for the accuracy of your time. I now give the floor to Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u268	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we have already expressed the position of the Galego Nationalist Block on this motion, which is in favour of it. It is in favour, ladies and gentlemen, because the BNG shares the need for the urgent negotiation of the autonomous financing system. It cannot be understood that in a crisis situation such as that in which the Government is experiencing, it has no interest in resolving this issue with the different autonomous communities when more than ever they need to rebalance their income in order to accommodate their expenses. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, we share with the motion the need to rebalance the distribution of deficit targets, to the extent that it is the regional administrations that are being charged most with this issue. Let us bear in mind that it should be the administration to which the greatest permissivity should be recognised in relation to the deficit insofar as the management of the public services that citizens have to receive from public health, education, social services, etc. is essential. And, of course, we are in favour of giving back to local authorities the powers to provide social services. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that very few or none of the municipalities are currently fulfilling the last reform of the law, because there really is a vocation of the municipalities to carry out this work regardless of whether some have more vocation than others. We are aware - I conclude, Mr President - that this negotiation requires time and above all a desire to reach agreements, but we consider it more appropriate for the Government to resolve this matter of autonomous financing than to draw up budgets to run all the way, simply to make electoral populism. That is why, although there is very little time, it seems to us that it is sufficient if the Government wants to deal with funding with the autonomous communities and to leave this matter resolved. In any event, if not, this Government will remain proud that it has not been able to fulfil one of its responsibilities, which is to reach agreements with the autonomous communities on financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group is also going to support this motion as a result of an inquiry. We are going to do this because we believe that the funding model is obsolete and unfair. It is obsolete because economic conditions have indeed changed a lot in recent years, as have the demographic conditions of the country and of the autonomous communities, and we also believe that it is unfair because in its application it is rewarding those autonomous communities that are inconclusive in the breach of deficit targets and, instead, it is harming autonomous communities that have demonstrated faithfully the achievement of those goals. Curiously, the Government is applying a different logic from that applied in the European Union with Greece, to which it is being told that it has to meet the deficit targets or, as a result of not meeting them, it is not going to be given the rescue. Here, many autonomous communities have been given the rescue because it is not true that something has been said here: that they have been deprived of the capacity to spend on social policies on the autonomous communities. Some of those who have spoken in this regard have generally and curiously come from some of those autonomous communities who have shown that they spend more than they deserve, while others have done so. That is why our vote will be in favour of this motion, but with reservations. Firstly, we believe that the model needs to be changed, but we do not believe that that has to be the door, the justification for failing to meet the deficit targets because the deficit targets are not put by this Government, but rather put by it, which is different. Secondly, we believe that the change in model should be accompanied by a review of how expenditure is distributed in the autonomous communities for the simple reason that we want to prevent, with the increase in resources, a return to the duplicity of organs, to the opening of new televisions, etc., to that expenditure that led to an excessive deficit that we had to face all citizens, not just the leaders of the autonomous communities. It must be an opportunity to narrow the poverty gap, especially child poverty, and to reduce social exclusion. That is why we support the idea that the powers of local authorities and entities in the field of social assistance and policies must be returned to them together with the corresponding income. But, I repeat, it is not a blank cheque to the motion, it is a support with clear conditions that our group will ensure that they are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Mr Pérez Moya has the floor for the Plural Left Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u272	Thank you, President. The basic management of the welfare state rests on the backs of the autonomous communities and municipalities. It is expenditure on education, health and social services that guarantees social cohesion, and that is why new autonomous and local funding is needed, which must be rebalanced in favour of institutions that effectively present services that contribute to strengthening the welfare and social cohesion state. In the serious situation of many families as a result of the economic crisis and the cuts established by the People's Party Government, it cannot be assumed that the administrations that support day-to-day management of basic services are underfunded. It is therefore necessary, as the motion also proposes, to make advances on account of additional resources of the system. We insist on the need for a new pact or a new system of autonomous and local financing that guarantees the financial sufficiency of the self-government of those communities that, in application of the contents of their autonomous statutes, act on the well-being of the citizenry from solidary and redistributive concepts. We do not want a system that is shunted and focused on reducing the fiscal deficit, leading to a regressive fiscal structure that encourages unsustainable growth models or lower public spending on social policies. We do not want a system that ultimately generates fiscal competition that encourages the relocation of people or activities and reduces the financial sufficiency of public administrations. We want a new model for financing public administrations that is stable and cannot be altered by unilateral decisions of the central administration conditioned by the objectives of the ruling government party. In the case of Catalonia, the systematic institutional disloyalty, the violations and the political and judicial threats by Mr Rajoy's Government, which, above all, are reflected in the non-compliance with the additional third of the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy, which refers to infrastructure, are very important. We want a new system to solve the problems of local funding. Our group is in favour of a solidarity economic concert that recognizes the specificities of certain historical nationalities, such as Catalonia, which meets the criteria of solidarity and territorial redistribution, without losing positions regarding their situation in fiscal capacity once the contribution to solidarity has been made; resources to solidarity that must be allocated to the basic services of the welfare state, taking into account the fiscal effort. We understand that, as long as there are no own instruments to ensure the financial adequacy of local authorities, the government of the State must be required to redistribute the deficit on the basis of the weight and expenditure of each of the different public administrations and to allow a ceiling of expenditure of at least 1% for the local government as a whole. It should be remembered that the municipalities cannot at present pass deficit budgets. We understand that it is not so much a matter of recovering municipal powers as of repealing the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Government, popularly known as Arsal Law, a law that is a threat and a clear aggression unprecedented in the legitimization of the local government, a law that generates loss of competence, re-centralization and political dispossession of the municipalities, imposed by the People's Party, which involves a flagrant violation of the principles of local autonomy and subsidiarity. It is necessary for the municipalities to regain the competence for the provision of municipal services that Arsal Law has abducted, transferring in the best of cases the decision on local public services to entities of indirect choice, such as the deputies. In order to ensure institutional loyalty between the State administration and the municipalities, it will be necessary to establish a system of financing local entities, adapting the competitive redistribution that determines the model of own territorial organization, which must have as its principles local autonomy, fiscal co-responsibility, solidarity and territorial balance. We shall vote in favour of the motion tabled by the Socialist Group. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Members.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u273	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. For the People's Group, Mrs Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u274	Thank you, Mr. President. The motion we are debating today is another example of the contradictions to which the proposing group is accustomed. In the first of the points, they call for a reform of the financing system, with the obvious need for the reforms to be complied with with the principles that the Spanish Constitution already requires for any financing system. Or did the former fail to comply with constitutional principles? Ladies and gentlemen, you know we didn't like the model. The Government has already stated that the economic crisis and the collapse of tax resources prevented it from addressing its reform. They know that in order to reform the system, it is essential that autonomous governments be formed for them to sit on the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Could the reform have been dealt with on 30 June, as they called for in their amendments to the Lofca? The model is yours, you did so and in order to cover up the failure of the 2009 funding model, it is intended to be responsible for not knowing what to the People's Party government. The Government has done what it has done to strengthen autonomous financing as never before in this country to ensure the provision of services to citizens, services that were in need of financial assistance in the face of the ruin of the arks. The Government has provided liquidity to the autonomous communities and municipalities amounting to 184 billion euros. Thanks to the Government, territorial administrations have saved more than 20 billion in interest and could go to claim credit, which they could not do before given their financial situation. The reality is that with the reforms undertaken by the government and that growth of the country to 3%, with the consequent increase in tax resources, the autonomous communities will have in 2016 about 10 billion more euros than this year, on account of the current financing system, theirs. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the funding system needs to be reformed, but a good model with a bad government generates insufficiency and a model such as the current one, quite perfectable, with a good government generates 100 billion euros more revenue for all. That macroeconomic which is the only one you say goes well in the end are hospital beds, school squares and social services. [[Rumors]] The second point concerns the allocation of the deficit target in 2016. They are well aware that there is a plurality of technical factors involved in setting this objective. They know it's enough, and as proof that it's not true what they say... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u275	I'm sorry, Mrs. Romero. Please, I beg your silence. Whoever doesn't want to be, let him go out and talk. [[Pause]] Go on, Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u276	Thank you. In May, the government deficit was reduced at a rate of 15.8% per year and that of the autonomous communities at 11%. Your Honor, this point is nothing but a contradiction. Why do they not say clearly that they are against the deficit target? Why do they not say clearly that those who support them in regional governments are against article 135 of the Constitution? Ladies and gentlemen, this behavior is yours, that of the scorpion and the frog. They came to the People's Group when they were drowning in ruin and now, even if it's bad for the country, they are dislodged, they want to remove Article 135 of the Constitution because you are so, you cannot avoid it. To refer to the deficit, I will simply say what its highest leader then said: Stability is not in conflict with social justice; on the contrary, it feeds it by guaranteeing the sustainability of the welfare state. For that, ladies and gentlemen, I point to the words of the then Member of Parliament, Mr Pedro Sánchez. The third point has been raised from the point of view of calling for more local funding. You will have been told by your new gurus that they cannot ask the programme to reform regional and local funding in parallel because they have carried it in all their programmes and, systematically, have failed to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, that alleged competence that the municipalities had was not in the law of bases; it was competence by delegation of the autonomous communities, competence that the municipalities threw behind the backs of their arks and did not charge. This government has amended it by reforming the Lofca with the Sustainability Act and you have voted against it. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has financially supported territorial administrations, exercised territorial solidarity. We hope that you will exercise, once and for all, institutional loyalty in negotiating a new model because that is what citizens deserve and demand from us all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u277	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Mr Rangel, what do you say to the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u278	Yes, Mr. President. We understand that they are subsumed in our proposal and we do not admit them.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u279	We will vote on their own terms. Thank you very much. In two minutes we'll vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u280	We will proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution. In place of Don Jordi Jané I ask Mrs Teresa Gomis de Barbarà if she swears or promises the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u281	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u282	Mrs. Teresa Gomis has acquired the full status of Member of Parliament. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u283	Let's start with the votes. Joint vote on the amendments to the entire national security bill, tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Groups, Mr Tardà, Mr Vasco, Mr PNV, Mr La Izquierda Plural and Mr Catalán de Convergence and Mr de Unió. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 321 plus 1 telematic vote, 322; in favour, 39; against, 281 plus 1 telematic vote, 282; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u284	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u285	Request for the House's assent to this bill whose amendments to the whole of it have just been voted on. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes cast, 320 plus 1 telematic vote, 321; in favour, 143; against, 177 plus 1 telematic vote, 178.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u286	There's no calling for a full court.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u287	Senate amendments. Draft Organic Law on the Staff Regime of the National Police. Separate vote on the amendments. Firstly, amendments to Articles 25.1, 47.7, 55.2, 62 and 40. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour, 293 against, 12, abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u288	They're approved. Amendments to the new final amending provision of Organic Law 2/1986 of 13 March. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 198 against, 109 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u289	They're approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 180 against, 123 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u290	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u291	Overall vote on the draft organizational law on the personnel regime of the National Police for being of the same organic nature. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 314 plus 1 telematic vote, 315; in favour, 178 plus 1 telematic vote, 179; against, 132; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u292	It's approved. - DRAFT ORGANICAL LAW AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 6/1985 OF 1 JULY OF THE JULY OF THE JUDICIAL POWER. [[File number 121/00134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u293	Amendments to the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. Firstly, amendments to the preamble and the single article, paragraphs 26 bis and 54. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 177 against 120 abstentions 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u294	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs 8 and 19a [[with the technical correction distributed]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 199 against, 100 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u295	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs 15 and 17. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 200 against, 111 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u296	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 196 against, 99 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u297	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs nineteen ter, twenty-one, twenty-three and ninety-four bis and to the fifth additional provision [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 189 against 116 abstentions 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u298	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 27 The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 281 against, 14 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u299	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 29 and the fourth final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 291 against, 21 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u300	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs thirty-four and forty-six, to the third transitional provision and to the third final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 297 against, 11 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u301	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs forty-a, sixty-six and one hundred and six-a and to the transitional provision ninth [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 311 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u302	They're approved. Amendments to the single article, paragraphs fifty-eight. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 279 against, 21 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u303	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs 60 and 1 and the second transitional provision, as regards paragraphs 3 and 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 197 against, 112 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u304	They're approved. Amendments to transitional provision 2 as regards the renumbering of paragraphs 1 and 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 199 against, 99 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u305	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs sixty-eight. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 183 against 114 abstentions 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u306	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs sixty-nine. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 182 against 118 abstentions 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u307	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs seventy-nine The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 192 against 10 abstentions 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u308	They're approved. Amendments to the second additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 179 against, 20 abstentions, 116.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u309	They're approved. Amendments to the third additional provision [[now second]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 292 against, 16 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u310	They're approved. Amendments to the fourth additional provision [[now third]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 192 against 22 abstentions 100.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u311	They're approved. Amendments to the fourth additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 290 against 20 abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u312	They're approved. Amendments to the sixth additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 283 against, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u313	They're approved. Amendments to the fourth transitional provision and the seventh transitional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 201 against, 99 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u314	They're rejected. Amendments to the first final provision and the new seventh bis final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 184 against, 119 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u315	They're approved. Amendments to the final provision novena. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 282 against 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u316	They're approved. Rest of Senate amendments to the bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 192 against 100 abstentions 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u317	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u318	Overall vote on the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary, for being of the same organic nature. There's a telematic vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 322 plus 1 telematic vote, 323; in favour, 178 plus 1 telematic vote, 179; against, 139; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u319	The organic law is passed. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 43/2003 OF 21 NOVEMBER, OF MONTHS. [[File number 121/000128]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u320	Amendments to the bill amending Act 43/2013 of 21 November 2013 on Montes. First of all, amendments to the preamble and the single article, paragraphs 24, 70, 80 and 99. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 179 against, 7 abstentions, 129.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u321	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 46. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 181 against, 132 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u322	They're approved. Amendments to the single article, paragraph 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 183 against 103 abstentions 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u323	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 63. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 184 against, 32 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u324	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u325	Motion by the Group of the Plural Left on measures to be taken by the Government in the face of mortgage evictions. There is a joint proposal in the terms of the compromise amendments with the Socialist and Convergence i Group of the European United Left. That text that your ladies and gentlemen have is the one that we are going to vote on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 144 against, 173 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u326	It's rejected. - Motion for an urgent interpellation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the financial adequacy of the Autonomous Communities and local authorities. [[File number 173/000226]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u327	Motion by the Socialist Group on the financial sufficiency of the autonomous communities and local entities. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 129 against 177 abstentions 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-08-CD150708.u328	It's rejected. The meeting rose. It was five and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
