ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u1	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, as some organic bills are being voted on today, I would say that the vote will not be before one and a half, but I hope that it will come very close to that hour; not before one and a half. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill on urgent measures in the field of competition. We will start with UPyD, with Mr Anchouelo, but the Basque Group, PNV, has amendments, and when Mr Azpiazu arrives he will speak. [[Mr Olabarría Muñoz asks for the floor]] I have the floor for the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very briefly, I would like to say that we do not perceive in the Senate amendments the corrections that we have indicated in relation to this important bill, particularly with regard to the system of transmission of a company to a new entrepreneur, where the elements of subrogation provided for in labour law are properly recorded, but not the possibility indicated in modern case law by the Supreme Court in relation to the matter, transmission of debts, including public debt, through the cutting of the debt or even the non-transmission of the integrity of the living debt, in order to ensure that the new entrepreneur, the subordinated entrepreneur or the entrepreneur to whom it is transmitted, can convert, replicate a company that was not viable, which had competitiveness problems in its day, into a company from this viable perspective. Look, we have not listened to a spiritualist interpretation of the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court in this matter and a great opportunity has been missed, so we regret that neither in this House nor in the Senate, Mr President, have been able to incorporate not only particularly innovative reforms, but reforms that are already enshrined in the jurisprudence of the courts. Therefore, this is a failed opportunity. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Ancholous has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. My group welcomed, at the time, Royal Decree 11/2014, from which this bill comes. As we point out there, our country is in a crisis of over-indebtedness, and there are many viable companies, which have a viable business model and which, however, have been led to the disappearance of defects that existed in our legislation. The normal procedure has been that they have gone to the tender of creditors, and in 94 % of the cases these tender of creditors have ended in the liquidation of the company, in the cessation of activity and in the loss of jobs, compared to another alternative that would have made much more sense in most cases, which was the restructuring of the debt. Therefore, Royal Decree 4/2014 introduced some reforms in the pre-competitive phase to address this problem, and Royal Decree 11, from which this bill comes, extended these reforms to the competitive phase, allowing procedures that facilitate the restructuring and refinancing of the debt, to prevent a small number of creditors from blocking these agreements or facilitating the full transmission of the company, or if not complete, at least of complete productive units. However, this support for Royal Decree 11 has been nuanced throughout the process of the bill, because we believe that the Royal Decree as a bill has lost an important opportunity to make improvements to it. Some of them have been proposed in the amendments to the Progress Union and Democracy. For example, we were in favour of considerably easing the regulation of out-of-court agreements. We would like to see faster, less costly and less restrictive out-of-court settlements to the withdrawals and waits that can be agreed upon. This is an important aspect of the issue, extra-judicial agreements. Nor do we like that the societies of valuation will have the monopoly or exclusive in the valuation of the guarantee of the real estate, because there are other professionals - for example, the architects - who have been working as experts in judicial proceedings and carrying out these tasks, which are now to be left exclusively in the hands of the societies of valuation; something that, by the way, does not happen in other European countries. Nor do we share that it is the debtor's auditor who will certify the sufficiency of the liability in the refinancing agreements, because it is the debtor's auditor and, therefore, there may be a clear conflict of interest in which he will carry out this task. All these amendments have been rejected in a block in the Commission by preventing these improvements which, from the point of view of my group, needed this legislation. But that's not the main problem. The main problem is that once again we have missed the opportunity to do something that is urgent, which is to introduce a genuine second chance procedure in our country. This is an issue that I would like to recall that was first addressed between these walls with a proposal for a law on Progressive Union and Democracy. It was our group in the first bill that was able to present this matter to the House. - It was specifically on 13 March 2012 when it was debated in plenary. There we pointed out that natural persons were entitled to address their problems with the same logic as companies. By the way, many companies or SMEs have no corporate form, they are natural people. Of the three million SMEs in our country, one and a half million - half - are self-employed. The same is true of families, since this crisis of over-indebtedness is not just of businesses, there are many families in debt as a result of the real estate bubble that were subject to draconian legislation. What we were proposing, by the way, was not revolutionary. The International Monetary Fund and the European Union already pointed out in their reports and recommendations the need for something like this. It is therefore regrettable that seven years have been wasted, we have had seven years of crisis to address this issue. There are many thousands of self-employed, there are many tens of thousands of families who have been irremediably damaged by this delay. It is also regrettable that, when it is finally addressed in another royal decree, to which I shall refer, it has been done insufficiently because what has been designed there is not a real second chance procedure. - In fact, the Minister of Economic Affairs is already offering to make corrections to try to resolve this issue. For example, it does not include very important credits such as public credits - Finance, Social Security - which in the case of SMEs and self-employed workers are a fundamental part of the problem. I cannot fail to point out the legislative chaos, the chaos in the legislative procedure with which this issue has been dealt with throughout the legislature. There are already innumerable competition reforms that have passed through this House. Today comes one more and, I have to point out that this bill that comes from Royal Decree-Law 11/2014, overlaps with another bill that is being dealt with in parallel that comes from Royal Decree-Law 1/2015, which also addresses these issues; Royal Decree that, by the way, is already in force. Consequently, the debate is really adulterated. In the Commission we were discussing a law that had already been subsequently amended by a royal decree, which is being dealt with in parallel by addressing interrelated issues. Some of the Senate's amendments reflect this issue: there are two of them that adjust the wording of the text to Royal Decree-Law 1/2015. In addition, in the middle of this process the Minister of Economic Affairs has already announced the possibility of major changes. It would have been much better to approach the competition reform as a whole, in an integral way and for many years, at least at the beginning of this term, if not in the middle of the previous term. That is why our vote, which was initially in favour of the royal decree, became a abstention in the debate in the Commission. The Senate's amendments do not alter anything substantial; nor do they substantially alter the text of the bill, nor do they alter the terms of the debate, nor do they therefore alter our overall position on this bill, which continues to be abstention. There are some positive elements that I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, but there are also important gaps in the amendments that have not been accepted or in the shortcomings to which I referred in my speech. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Hook. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are all aware that we are witnessing a chapter that can pass on to the legislative legal history of this country as one of the most serious experiences of deterioration of the principle of legal certainty, but in case someone had gone unnoticed I want to make it clear. Today we have another reform of the Competition Act of 2003. - Nothing special, the laws are about to get better. However, we must not forget that today this House is going to vote on the fourth different legal text, in a different year - the fourth: two decree-laws and their successive laws resulting from the processing of those decree-laws - and, in addition, the sixth reform of the Competition Law in this legislature. As has already been said, on Monday I think that the deadline for the amendments, which is already the seventh reform, is over, and it seems that the Government has a possible eighth to deal with generated situations, such as that of the Banco de Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how you see it, but I see it as unsustainable from the point of view of legal certainty. Here someone is filled with the mouth, especially the government, to say that this country is growing a lot because it gives security to investors. Do you really believe that security is given to someone when the same legal text is amended seven and eight times in a legislature, but not in different ways, but in many cases influencing the same issues? First it was the Royal Decree-Law 4/2014 of 7 March, which ended up being Law 11/2014, substantially amended in relation to the initial text. In that legislative reform, the argument was to guarantee and promote pre-competitive agreements to ensure that business could be continued. Very good argument, if not because already then one of the consequences of that decree-law was to greatly weaken the privileged, preferential character of workers' credit during the three-month period in which these pre-competitive processes are conducted. At that time, the People's Group, through its spokesman, Mr Vicente Martínez-Pujalte, committed itself to resolving this issue with the House and with trade union organizations. Well, we are still waiting for that solution, which has not only not happened, but then comes a new decree-law from which emerges this bill that we are discussing today, which not only does not solve the problem of workers' preferential credits in the pre-competition phase, but aggravates them by widening the deterioration of that situation of preference, privilege, that existed before that furor reformist of the competition legislation. Honestly, does anyone really think that this is a sustainable way to legislate?Does anyone really think that this can help the country work? I do not think so, and I have an obligation to record it. At the time we have already said that we share the supposed objective of these reforms, which they claim to be to facilitate the continuity of companies globally in terms of productive units, also facilitating the maintenance of jobs. All right, but the problem is not the objective, the problem is the means through which this objective is achieved. I insist that in this draft law, which we are going to pass today, there is a major deterioration in the preferential nature of workers' credits. But that is no coincidence, because we have had some procedural amendments which fortunately have not been approved throughout this process, which show that there is something very important behind it: the clear will of economic interests represented by large commercialist offices in this country to put an end to the preferential and privileged nature of work credits and public credits. There is, and so it has been, because it is considered that the interests of the companies they represent are then inferior to the conditions. Please think, or rather, think - some of us have already thought - what you can suppose before you do that barbarity. Justification for the preferential nature of these claims exists not only because of the labour and public content of the debts. Because let's not forget that if workers don't run and Finance or Social Security don't, when they can do it, it's because they have the guarantee that they won't have to be entangled in a process of distribution among all creditors of what's left of the competition process. If these people and those public interests are told that they will not have that privilege, that preferential character, it is normal that as soon as they can execute because, if not, they will be left without jobs and also without the debts they have accredited. I would like to reiterate that aspect which seems very important to us. However, I would like to point out that in the People's Parliamentary Group they should be clarified and put in order because they are a bit spasmodic, from the legislative point of view. When we discussed the text of the decree-law that gives rise to this bill, many groups proposed to take advantage of it to address the second chance law and told us: Nanai of China, and a few weeks or months later come and propose it with a limited and scarred version. This House should be good for something. We hear constant shouts to dialogue - forgiveness, calls to dialogue - although sometimes they seem opaque, closed, because the truth is that after that call there is absolutely nothing. From that point of view - I insist - some barbarity is being committed in terms of legal certainty. I would also like to highlight something particularly serious. With the text that is approved today you place the rights of regulated and supervised financial institutions in front of the competition process and, in the competitive and rights-sharing process, you have made an extension of the rights of those regulated and supervised financial institutions to all those entities that lend money, but which are not in that condition of supervised; in short, funds of different nature, which Mr De Guindos has undertaken to turn into a bank in the shadow. That way, you are encouraging the role of vulture funds, with one thing that I hope will not happen, because if a fiasco happens in the coming years with depositors of resources in those vulture funds granted to higher interest, and that they also have more risks in their condition of granting credits, I hope not to hear anyone say - as I have heard now in relation to the real estate bubble -: 'no one said anything; that was unpredictable'. It is not true, some of us are saying this now repeatedly. The foundations of another important problem are being laid. It is opportune to highlight it today. In addition, look carefully: you recognize those unsupervised financial institutions the right to automatically and without the debtor's authorization to make up for a debt due with financial guarantee - I insist - without the debtor's knowledge. That is, you can get up one day without being aware that you have run out of property and assets because an entity - which is also not supervised, is not a regular financial entity - has proceeded with such automatic compensation. They will understand that under these conditions our position, which was already negative to the validation of this decree-law, remains in that sense. With regard to the amendments tabled by the Senate, we are going to abstain, not because we agree with the matter, but because what amendments are they? The logical amendments. Someone has realized that we were going to adopt a text that had already been amended by another decree-law that this House has validated, and the People's Party has no choice but to take the text approved in the last decree-law and turn it into an amendment so that we do not all commit the ridiculousity of adopting a text that no longer exists, that has been modified. I have no arguments there; you have done an intriguing function of technical debugging of the text. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Yeah, yeah, but you guys turn off a fire with some kind of water heater, even though the fire caused it with diesel. You better not start the fire and then you won't have to water it. The only thing I can tell you is that we will continue to maintain our intentions to fix this mischief in the processing of the bill from Decree-Law 1/2015, which is currently being processed. Thank you very much. And I hope, please, that your legislative fury will stop, for the sake of the legal certainty of this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. Mr Sánchez i Llibre has the floor for the Catalan Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when this competition bill came into the House, which came from the validation of a real decree, the Convergence i Union Parliamentary Group welcomed it with great satisfaction because we understood that there were many possibilities that through its processing as a bill would become a useful mechanism for the consolidation of the business fabric of companies that were in difficulty and could sustain and maintain their jobs. We also understood that it was a good tool for maintaining current jobs, as well as for the continuity of those same firms in difficulty. In short, we understood that this was a good instrument after the major crisis that has shaken the industrial economy of this country. In this respect, we said that we had reservations but that we trusted in parliamentary procedure in order to be able to modernise our legislation and at the same time to make this modernization effective for the consolidation of jobs and the maintenance of the productive fabric. The proceedings in Congress and in the Senate have ended and our assessment is of great political disappointment, ladies and gentlemen, because the proceedings have not fulfilled the need for modernization that we requested. We have also felt, apart from the disappointed, politically deceived and - if I may say so, as we are talking about maintaining jobs - betrayed, because we have put a number of conditions in which to vote in favour of its adoption and yet we have not taken into account the issues which we understood to be relevant and which could be the subject of negotiation in order to raise this modernisation of our case law. That's why disappointment has been total. Therefore, we are disappointed, deceived and politically betrayed because, as I will mention later, some issues that are very important to us have not come to light. This is going to be legislation which, instead of favouring job creation, is going to be against the maintenance of the jobs of certain companies which are in economic difficulties and in competition, and it is also going to be against the maintenance of their industrial activity. We made a number of approaches to the case that a company was in a competitive process and before entering a liquidation phase. Today there are important experiences in industrial communities, as is the case with Catalonia to which I am going to refer. It is clear that when a company enters into liquidation and all its assets are cut to be acquired by other economic entities this implies - the liquidation, the cutting and the sale of its business assets - automatically the immediate loss of jobs and the closure of this industrial company, which cannot be considered the maintenance of the current industrial fabric. At the same time, we proposed that all those companies that were in competition could be transferred from the business before going to liquidation without this entailing that social security debts could be subsumed in this transmission. This was the key point: that there would be a transfer of jobs and assets but that the social security debts that the company had at the time would not be passed on to the new buyer. This situation would allow a great many jobs and a great many businesses to have continuity. We have tried to negotiate with the Ministry of Economy and it is true that we have always been told that, whenever the Ministry of Labour said yes, the Ministry of Economy would make the amendment tabled by Convergence i Unió viable. The Ministry of Labour, because of the circumstances, did not approve of this modern and objective approach - care, approach of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen - but today there is jurisprudence that goes in the direction of modernising the current legislation and that will allow and is allowing in some cases that this transmission does not involve the assumption of social security debts. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen, with which we find that justice in this case is much faster and more modern than legislators. The amendment has not prospered and that will mean that many important workplaces, many companies in the industrial fabric are going to be engaged in the liquidation, the cutting and sale of their business assets separately, with the consequent destruction of jobs, the impossibility of continuity of the company and, more importantly, the debts of Social Security are not going to be collected, they are going to be eternally overdue debts. We regret this lack of political vision, this lack of business vision, this unwillingness to see the business reality and the real economy. I sincerely believe that in many cases it would be worth it if some ministers, some secretaries general or some important positions of the different ministries stepped on the street, saw the reality and were not locked in their offices quietly, putting forward theories about these liquidations that will probably result in the end of social security taxes being levied, when it really will not be. The paper stands by absolutely everything, but there is a lack of vision of the real economy, a lack of perception of what the real problems are and, at the same time, a lack of awareness of what the current reality is, because justice in many cases is already giving reason to the amendments that Convergence i Unite has tabled and, why not say so, other political formations that are in the same line. Let us see if in this second chance bill we are not in the same situation, that we are politically deceived and that we end up feeling disappointed. If an entrepreneur whose company has been called upon by economic circumstances to tender for creditors does not find sufficient resources, he would not be able to proceed with his new business project if this legislation does not give him an option to be the successor or buyer of this company in a competitive position. It is very good to raise the second chance, to sell it and to mediately say that this second chance is going to exist, but the legislation we are adopting at the moment does not allow this possibility. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I would like to thank you for the time that is left of this important second chance bill, in which many groups have put a great deal of hope, for taking time out on the street, seeing cases and talking to people who are in this situation so that we can give a sense of modernity and let us be the legislators who stand before the administration of justice, which, by the way, is today giving significant examples to which many of us would have to refer. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez i Llibre. For the Socialist Group, Mr Caldera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are talking about legislation that is essential for the economic and social development of our country. It is of enormous importance in the development of economic activity and employment, hence the succession of reforms that have taken place in recent years. That is why I would like to say on behalf of my group, Mr President, that the first thing is to urge the government to draft a consolidated text of all these legislative reforms in order to give legal certainty to operators. With regard to the Senate's amendments, I must say that they do not remove, add or subtract, and therefore, as they are really technical in nature, my group is going to abstain. However, that does not mean that the text is of a minor nature; quite the contrary, the text is absolutely essential, it is not insignificant and I would therefore like to make our points clearly. Mr Anchouelo said that this crisis we have experienced is a crisis of over-indebtedness. Yes, but it should be made clear that it has been a crisis of private over-indebtedness, which is not public. Suitable for analysis of situation and reality. Spain's situation certainly worsened in 2008 with the international financial crisis being affected by some endogenous conditions such as the over-indebtedness of our companies and our families, rather than our public sector. However, the opposite is happening today, if you realize, Mr Anchouelo: it is the private sector that is making a huge effort at debt relief and it is the public sector that is becoming increasingly indebted. I mean, the tornadoes have changed. That is why in this process of deleveraging we have to help with the regulations in order to try to save as many businesses and jobs as possible. I have to say on behalf of my group that it has certainly improved legislation, though not enough. In our opinion, not enough. We should have acted more intensively and flexibly before to ensure the salvation of hundreds of thousands of jobs that have been lost and that could probably have been sustained if there had been faster, faster, more comprehensive and more flexible reforms. In any case, these reforms of the Competition Law have positive elements, although, in our opinion, as I said, not enough. I would also like to make a defense of our social security system. I think we have a good social security system, I think our system works properly, has enough flexibility, and I say this because I was responsible for that portfolio, and I would like to remind you that our social security system helps with the refinancing of debts, with the negotiation of debts, with the postponement system and has extraordinarily helped to maintain employment. It is true - I was talking to my colleague Mr De la Rocha now - that probably in the out-of-court procedures, in the pre-competition procedures, there should be - and the text does not take it - more flexibility so that both social security and public finance could enter the negotiating process. I think that we could, Mr Sánchez i Llibre and the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, make an effort to enable them to have negotiating capacity and to act even by assessing the elements at risk in question and by being able to participate flexibly in the treatment of the debt that is owed to these bodies, which, as is well known, is privileged. That is a point which could be corrected in the following text and which, in our view, would make it possible to improve, and a great deal, the situation of our companies and particularly small ones. It should be remembered that the essential part of the debt of our SMEs and micro SMEs is with public bodies, with Finance and with Social Security. Therefore, it is privileged credit. If reasonable negotiations could be conducted at an early stage, even involving the possibility of reducing that debt in order to save as many jobs as possible, this could lead to a substantial improvement in the maintenance of employment prospects. As I was telling you, the whole regulatory order for debt reduction and economic activity maintenance has improved, but it is not enough. We look at four essential points where we can see that there are still defects in the regulatory mechanism. We cannot yet speak of a real second chance for the honest debtor; that is, for the debtor in good faith, for the debtor who has committed no crime, for those who have seen themselves in this situation because of the economic crisis whose activity has followed the ordinary channels of compliance with the norm, but, usually because of the lack of payment of other suppliers, they have found themselves in a critical situation and have lost not only their business, but on many occasions the whole of their assets. Therefore, there is still no specific procedure for micro-enterprises and for individuals in insolvency and personal and family over-indebtedness that can make the continuity of their activity viable; there is, of course, a rule in the vast majority of European countries. The best example of this is that the last royal decree in force, which allows some remission of the liability and approaches what may be a second chance procedure, is being used very little. According to the data we have, there is practically no reception of the same of any kind. Why do we have these problems? First, because there is no specific procedure for SMEs and individuals. Because the procedure proposed today is rigorist, slow, long, costly and often leads to a personal situation that ends in the full liquidation and absolute ruin of the competing person and offers no guarantee to the individual in the protection of his rights. We should therefore make an effort to ensure that there is an ad hoc procedure, a specific procedure that is much simpler and more agile so that as many companies as possible in our country can benefit from the second chance mechanism. The second problem is the threshold of the satisfied liability that is required of those who want to take advantage of the second opportunity. It is quite demanding and high and is going to be a formidable obstacle to the possibility of companies - especially small and autonomous ones - benefiting from it. On the other hand, there is no guarantee of survival and maintenance of the affected person in his or her usual home. It is essential that we make an effort in this area - we are talking about habitual housing - because otherwise, in addition to the enormous social costs that this entails, economic costs will also increase for our country. The third problem is that there is no efficient restructuring framework for viable SMEs with financial difficulties that can and should be offered a second opportunity to foster entrepreneurship, investment and employment. There is not yet an appropriate controlled settlement mechanism that should last a maximum period of time - for us it should be three years - as foreseen by the recommendations of the European Commission. Nor is the judge given sufficient role to be able to order the remission of all debts even if - as I said earlier - the expected satisfaction thresholds had not been met. In Germany, for example, a similar system is established which gives the judge freedom to make this decision. There are still two more points. Whoever takes up this so-called second chance procedure turns out to have Damocles' sword - it seems that the minister indicated that the People's Parliamentary Group would be willing to reconsider it - that for the next five years - we ask that the procedure lasts three - if that person comes to better fortune either by ordinary income from his economic activity or by exceptional facts, the procedure against him can be reopened to try on the part of the creditor to obtain the total satisfaction of the previous debt. This is extremely insecure, this is going to give very serious problems to those who want to accept this system and, therefore, it is neither an efficient mechanism nor a reasonable mechanism. We should eliminate it, reduce the period to three years and establish that, once debt remission is in place, there are obviously no possible mechanisms for reopening that procedure. Finally, we have the problem of registration, in which the persons who take up this procedure will be identified for their entire lives as late or debtors and, on the vast majority of occasions, in good faith, i.e. not attributable to inappropriate conduct. Therefore, these elements are changed or eliminated, or we will hardly be able to have an adequate regulatory mechanism to save economic activity, to save the heritage hard earned by our fellow citizens and to improve the country's economic activity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Caldera. For the People's Group, you have the word dona Rocío López.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, effort, commitment and responsibility; effort to promote projects at the service of families, at the service of companies and at the service of Spain; commitment to grow and create jobs, and responsibility in building an economy that integrates everyone. Efforts, commitment and responsibility of Spanish society supported by the Government of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, today, with the final adoption of the law on urgent measures in the field of competition, we are taking a new step forward on this path undertaken by the Government of Mariano Rajoy to reduce the excessive indebtedness of families and businesses in a difficult environment in which we had to be particularly careful not to slow down growth. This Government has not relaxed. First, the Law on the Refinancing and Restructuring of Business Debt in the Pre-Concursional Phase was adopted; we agreed and there was a high consensus of the various political forces, surely aware of the importance of ensuring the survival of economically viable enterprises and thus consolidating growth and employment, the main objective of the People's Government. Now the competition law, which extends the regulation defined in the previous phase of the competition and defines an efficient and modern framework in the competition field with three fundamental bets: a generous bet, a realistic bet and a respectful bet. A generous bet because it guarantees the continuity of businesses that are economically viable but have been adversely affected by excessive indebtedness; a realistic bet because it accommodates the legal privilege to the underlying economic reality, and a bet respectful of the legal nature of security rights. A law that already included transactions amendments from all groups in this House and that returns from the Senate having been incorporated four technical amendments that improve the final text. But we must not be complacent; while it is true that the recovery of the Spanish economy has not only been consolidated, it is also gradually gaining strength by growing above the eurozone, we must continue to face challenges. Another important law that we are dealing with is that of the second opportunity, which comes to complete the legislation before and comes at the most opportune time. What benefits does this law bring? That in the future many people are not subjected to ostracism when economic difficulties arise and that viable enterprises can continue their activity. These measures extend to self-employed persons and families who, for reasons that have arisen, have been immersed in over-indebtedness and have lost all their assets. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, families will be able to benefit from debt restructuring measures which so far only existed for companies. The Government supports entrepreneurial culture and responds to a social demand. That is true, unlike other parliamentary groups, it will not be a question of abandoning the culture of payment, but it will be done within a legal framework of guarantees for both debtors and creditors. I'm done. We are faced with a law of utmost importance that has been promoted by Minister Luis de Guindos. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I thank everyone for their willingness and contributions to the process. Together with Mr Martínez-Pujalte and Mrs Marcos, we thank all the rapporteurs from the various groups for their willingness to reach the maximum consensus, as well as the rigorous work of the lawyer from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We must now continue to work, ladies and gentlemen, to complete the work carried out so far, which is essential, because these are measures that will strengthen entrepreneurial activity, that will continue to reduce the indebtedness of businesses and families, that in fact has already been reduced in what we have in the legislature by 425 billion, and that will have a direct impact on both economic growth and employment. They are a set of laws that, when we have perspective and analyse their impact and effectiveness in the coming years, will make us all proud. Ladies and gentlemen, be proud, first of all, because this is something that the Spaniards were demanding from us and, secondly, because it is the result of the work and effort of all the groups in this House. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to reconsider your position and be supported by your vote in favour. Efforts, commitment, responsibility to promote reforms at the service of families, businesses and to continue building Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs López González.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u14	Let us now proceed with the amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill to safeguard the intangible cultural heritage. Firstly, for the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly, because I believe that what this bill brought was already said at the time, both when the amendments to the whole were discussed here and when the law was later adopted in the Commission. The incorporations that have been made in the Senate, all of them, of course, of the People's Party, have only added more arguments to what we were saying; that is, the bill still has the same shortcomings that it had at first. We have already said that this was a hyper-centralizing law, with very specific objectives on the part of the Government. Therefore, we cannot support this bill, neither then nor now. There is a clear question in this bill, which has a very political mentality, and with the inclusions that have been made in the Senate, this government's objective remains latent. Under this Act, the General Administration of the State reserves full powers to declare protection and to take safeguard measures corresponding to property beyond the territorial scope of an autonomous community. This is an amalgamation of undeterminable concepts and assumptions and is as much as a blank letter to the General Administration of the State, rather than articulating a model that ensures coordination between the autonomous communities for the preservation of intangible cultural heritage. This is it. Therefore, all the amendments that my group and other groups tabled, which constantly recalled that this was a transferred matter and that it is the competence of the Autonomous Communities, were not accepted by the People's Party. None. What do we have to understand with this? That the People's Party does not want these matters to be the competence of the autonomous communities, even if they are. It will have to be clarified, because the explanation they give, that it is a dual issue in which the State also has competence, has competence in this matter, but there are rulings from the Constitutional Court that say how far they come. Therefore, why was this law necessary? Is the People's Party afraid that, as it is now, certain elements of culture will not be protected if they are in the hands of the autonomous communities? Can the People's Party say that there has been a case in which the State has had to intervene because if not an element would run the risk of disappearing, because the autonomous communities would not take care of it as they should? There are certain elements such as the Tauromaquia that make us think that perhaps the People's Party does not want them to be in the hands of the autonomous communities, because some autonomous communities may legislate in a way that the central government and the People's Party do not want them to legislate, and so that this does not happen, as we said in that debate of the whole of this law, it is not that they invade competences, but that they assume competences that they do not have and that is already the rematch. I'm not going too long. The amendments that have been incorporated into the Senate do not bring anything new to this bill, it seems unnecessary to us, it is not that we are against it, it seems unnecessary to us, because intangible cultural property is already protected by the autonomous communities, and so says the constitutional bloc and the statutes of autonomy. It is therefore not necessary for the State to intervene where it should not intervene. That is why we are not voting in favour of the amendments that have been introduced. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Fifteen amendments in total, ten on correction of spelling errors, two on grammatical errors and three completely innocuous introductions - one of the grammatical corrections has been to change capitals by lowercases: Royal Decree-Law by royal decree-law -; 266 senators, with an average annual base salary, being from Madrid and without counting the extra payments, of 37,518.6 euros. We are facing the most expensive spelling and grammar correction department in the world. [[Rumors]] We, from the UPyD Parliamentary Group, agreed in its day with the bill to safeguard the intangible cultural heritage. With his passage through the Senate, we are witnessing an innocuous, expensive process that dilates procedures in excess without adding any value. Obviously, after the Senate's work, we cannot be against amendments that are very quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. Mrs De las Heras has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u19	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, now that this law is back from the Senate for the protection of the intangible cultural heritage after a haste and without the possibility of agreement, we can say without fear that this law is a whim of the People's Party, it is a provocation and an imposition for those for whom we believe that an advanced society cannot maintain, let alone protect, invoking tradition or culture, ill-treatment, bloodbath and the death of animals for pleasure or amusement. This is the main objective of this law, we cannot forget it, and for this reason the People's Party has not hesitated to turn into a true father into a law that should have served to harmonize, to help cohesion and coordination between groups, carrier communities, organizations and citizens' associations, as the true recreational protagonists and maintainers of intangible cultural manifestations throughout the State. We have already said this in our amendment to the whole and I repeat it again, that if a law like this made sense, it was precisely to serve as a protective net carrying resources and strengths of our intangible heritage and not to create, as you have done, a rope with which to gag, impose and expropriate the communities carrying the capacity constitutionally they have to protect their cultural heritage and put it also at the service of the whims and interests of a few, committed to maintaining traditions in some territories, discarded for their cruelty against animals, such as bullfighting. So much so that along the way they have not stopped to analyze the irreparable damage to the very nature of the intangible cultural heritage that this law is going to produce by disregarding the indispensable work that requires the maintenance of such a sensitive good, that it is characterized by being intangible and needs to continue to exist from the consensus of the and with the bearers of the tradition and a consistent and constant work of collaboration between the public administrations involved. But far from this, ladies and gentlemen, once again, you, gentlemen of the People's Party, do not hesitate to invade the powers that the autonomous communities have exclusively, arrogating to you, alone, from the Government, the capacity to declare protection and to take safeguard measures on a concrete manifestation representative of the intangible cultural heritage that you will define when it suits you and using article 12 that you have neither touched nor modified here nor in the Senate, and since you are getting into the irrational garden of this misconception, you take advantage to reinforce the economic and centralist interests that are obsessing this Government, even at the cost of distorting the spirit and essence of the United Nations Convention itself in 2003 for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage, which you also perversely use as a pretext to make this law. The text that now comes from the Senate does not substantially improve this disaster, it has not been able to improve it by the 266 senators of the Senate, because it has depended on the Group of the People's Party and the lawyer who has made the technical report. It corrects something basic such as the recognition of toponymy as an intangible cultural asset in accordance with the international commitments made by our country through the Ninth United Nations Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names, amending paragraph 3 of the preamble to the law and consequently Article 2(a) of Title I on the concept of intangible cultural heritage. These are amendments that we have already tabled here in this direction by all the groups and that have had to go to the Senate, then they have had to renegotiate and a compromise has finally come out that fortunately improves them and we will vote in favour. Furthermore, we believe that the opportunity has been lost to develop a basic law on intangible cultural heritage that would comply with the United Nations Convention and improve the shortcomings found in the different legislative developments of the autonomous communities, and yet, we repeat, the opportunity has been lost that would have allowed us a harmonized and non-invasive law that would help cohesion and coordination for the sole purpose of protecting and maintaining the intangible assets existing in our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, your irresponsibility and your closure have made it impossible. Now, from La Izquierda Plural, we only hope that the autonomous communities that have sought progress in the elimination of traditions that involve ill-treatment of animals and nature - like the Autonomous Community of Catalonia in suppressing bullfights - will be supported by UNESCO, because we believe it will be so, and leave on wet paper this law that they are going to carry out again, as always, as in all this legislature - they have little left - using the roller of their absolutist majority. We also hope that UNESCO will leave its Law 18/2013 for the regulation of the tauromaquia without any effect for the same reasons. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. De las Heras. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Sánchez i Llibre has the floor. [[Pause]] No, sorry, Mrs. Surroca.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that Mr Sánchez i Llibre can do anything, but on this occasion I will replace him. Let's get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in the final phase of this draft law on safeguarding intangible cultural heritage, another law with the stamp of Minister Wert, another law that does not escape controversy. If yesterday the protagonist was the Catalan language, today is the cultural heritage and, through the back door, the protagonist on this occasion are the bulls, again we talk about the bulls. If there was no controversy in this area until now, from now on the controversy is served. Today - as I said - we have reached the final stage of this law, a re-centralizing law that invades the competences of the Generalitat and the rest of the autonomous communities and that responds to interventionist criteria. Was this law necessary? No, no, Was that a priority? Neither. What are you after? For, apparently, protecting our intangible cultural heritage and responding to the substantial change that effectively represented the Convention for the Protection of Unesco's intangible cultural heritage, signed and ratified by the Spanish State. Is that justification real? No, ladies and gentlemen. This law is an artifice, one more occurrence, in particular the ministry of Mr Wert and in any case the Government of the People's Party, which is going to provoke important conflicts with the autonomous communities. The priorities of our cultural heritage are not precisely those that reflect this project that comes today from the Senate, which deals with a very specific sector of cultural heritage. We're only talking about intangible heritage. Is this, ladies and gentlemen, the priority, the urgent priority of cultural heritage in this country? Faced with the significant financial difficulties of many of the public administrations, one of the priorities of our heritage - in this case I am talking about material heritage - is how to finance its conservation. You all know that, ladies and gentlemen. All of you, who also have many responsibilities at the territorial level, certainly receive requests from many of our municipalities that are concerned at the moment about how to preserve the wealth of this cultural heritage that we have, whose conservation you do not know how you can finance, ladies and gentlemen. Instead, the ministry, instead of devoting its efforts to the real urgency of our cultural heritage, such as how to finance the preservation of our rich material cultural heritage, is dedicated to other issues with wills or intentions that have nothing urgent or priority. In this case, I am referring to the question of bulls, the bullfighting. In other words, would it not be important or urgent to lower cultural VAT? How many times have we said it from this rostrum, how many times have we said it in the Committee on Culture, for example? These are real priorities of our culture. Was it not also important, rather than devote efforts to this unique project, which only - I insist - refers to intangible cultural heritage, that we make a more generic and global review and devote efforts to making a new law on cultural heritage, which also includes intangible cultural heritage? This was an important issue to which we should devote our efforts. [[The lady]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are here in the final form of a bill which was not at any time a priority or an urgency and which responds to other criteria other than those set out in your explanatory statement. Also - it is very important that we highlight it and we have said it on other occasions - it departs from the spirit of the UNESCO Convention that was adopted in 2003. There we spoke and insisted on the need to preserve the plurality of cultural heritage, nothing further than what this bill is doing that we are going to pass today. Our parliamentary group tabled an amendment to this bill in its entirety and did so basically on one issue, because there is a clear invasion of competence by the State. What is the basis of the State's competence to promote this project? It does so on the basis of articles 1a, 3a, 28a and 30a of article 149.1 of the Spanish Constitution and also of paragraph 2 of the same article, but the State does not really have the powers it claims to legislate within the scope proposed. There is a clear excess of competition. Why? Because according to the Spanish Constitution and the statutes, in this case the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, as well as the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, the State cannot assign full competition in the field of culture, because that would leave without content the specific competences recognized in the Spanish Constitution and in the statutes of autonomy. In other words, the State cannot have autonomous competence in the field of culture. What the State has is legislative competence in the matter of culture of a subsidiary nature, ladies and gentlemen. This is what we claim in the amendment to the whole that we have been defending for weeks now in this House. In addition, we did so on the basis of the repeated doctrine of the Constitutional Court, for example by citing a few judgements, in judgement 17/1991, judgement 49/1984 or, finally, judgment 109/1996. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this bill responds to a clear over-restriction by the State in this matter. I am already on other more specific issues. With regard to the concept of intangible cultural heritage, an excessively generic classification is chosen, which does not correspond to the relationship incorporated in the 2011 National Plan for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage. On the other hand, with regard to the general principles of safeguard action, we consider it necessary to include in that article a clear and explicit exception in the possible declaration of an asset as an immaterial manifestation of culture when it is found that its exercise or practice entails, for example, an injury to animals. In this paragraph our group has made repeated amendments, none of which have been incorporated into the text. With regard to the protection of associated tangible property as set out in article 4, the practical effects of the protection of an asset as an intangible manifestation of culture are not determined. The specific protection measures which, on the basis of their declaration as such, become necessary are not clearly and precisely defined. On the other hand, article 11 contains all the powers which the State will have in this field. We understand that here again there is a very clear violation of the competences of the autonomous communities. As regards the declaration of immaterial manifestation of culture, in Article 12 of the draft, there are several aspects which our parliamentary group had highlighted and transformed into amendments, none of which were incorporated during the course of parliamentary proceedings. Again in the precept there is a clear violation of competences and we are also concerned that it does not provide for the possibility that an autonomous community to which the manifestation purporting to be protected as intangible cultural heritage may derogate within its territorial scope from the extension of such protection. That is an important issue that our parliamentary group defended throughout the parliamentary process and which was never addressed by the majority group. In conclusion, our parliamentary group strongly rejects this text, which is now coming to its final stage of parliamentary procedure, because there is a clear violation of competences, a violation which has not been remedied during its processing. Few amendments have been incorporated into the Senate, most of which are technical corrections. Therefore, since there has not been the important change that our parliamentary group needed to give its vote in favour of the draft, we say that we are not going to vote in favour of any of the amendments incorporated into the text in the Senate, because we understand that it is a project that was not necessary and that also clearly violates the competences of the autonomous communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ros.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are putting an end to the process of a law that will only have the support of the People's Party. They're all alone, they're all against it. I in your case would make me look at it. This law is not what it deserves and needs our rich and diverse cultural, material and intangible heritage. This law is another weak favor of the People's Party and the Government to our culture. Laws are maintained and strengthened the greater the agreement and consensus. Heritage is a value and a fundamental right of coexistence and cohesion and must be understood from the respect and protection of diversity, of the importance it has in all its manifestations. During the process of this law the Socialist Group has acted generously in search of that consensus, the agreement. We wanted to look to the future, but in front of it we found no answer. We hoped that the Senate would address some issues that were very important to us: Amendment No 48, amending Article 12(4)(c), and Amendment No 49 to the fifth final provision. With these amendments we would clarify two doubts that we have seen during the debate: one, the competition debate between the legislation of the Autonomous Communities and what the central Government should and is committed to, and two, the participation of the Autonomous Communities and the Congress of Deputies. The only amendments that you have accepted have been those that improve the wording, but none of the relevant ones that are a turning point in the objective of this law. In the Congressional Committee on Culture we were deluded to think that the Senate was still missing, but, as we have seen, nothing at all: of the seven amendments tabled, none has prospered. This is a law that was not necessary because it fragments the Spanish Historical Heritage Law of 1985 and it is an unnecessary and useless fragmentation that causes the normative dispersion of a matter that cost many regular decades with unitary principles. The justification of the People's Group's law, based on the purpose of adapting Spanish law to an international treaty of the 2003 UNESCO Convention, is not acceptable. It is not valid because, as has been expressed in the debates of Congress and the Senate and as the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport very well recognizes, there has already been a job done. In 2006, with a socialist Government, Spain had already ratified the UNESCO Convention of 2003 to safeguard intangible cultural heritage and since then it had started working in a system that, in October 2011, with another socialist Government, had materialized in the National Plan for intangible cultural heritage, a plan neither discussed nor attacked by anyone, because it was not against anyone, but in favour of culture as a value and as a right. That work culminates, I repeat, in 2011 with the preparation of a document. Much work had been done by the Government and the Autonomous Communities and different elements agreed upon by UNESCO had already been implemented. There was, therefore, a long way to go, many issues that can and should not be overlooked, as well as, in the same sense, a great deal of work done and much progress by almost all the Autonomous Communities, which have already legislated on this issue within their competence. There was already work done and everything advised us to draw up a comprehensive law. The report of the Council of State also supports this decision and says: It would be optimal and reasonable not to proceed with the elaboration of a new law specific to intangible heritage and to strengthen Law 16/1985 of the Spanish Historical Heritage, in order to make it an integral law on all the constituent elements of our heritage. The Socialist Group fully agrees with that approach. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill would have deserved more territorial dialogue, an inclusive legislation. The debate on the role of administrations in safeguarding cultural heritage should already be overcome from the point of view of competition and institutional cooperation. With regard to heritage and culture, we understand that the best distinction of each of the cultural, material or intangible facts is to recognize them in their place, to recognize them by the people who carry them out and that it is a pride and a reason for closeness between the citizens. Neither culture nor heritage are elements for re-centralization or segregation. Its safeguard must not be exclusive or imposed. Cultural heritage is a reflection of diversity, but of an open diversity, so they do not attack it. That diversity is an opportunity. We cannot understand or admit that the generalization of a specific cultural representation is imposed by law in all the territories, arguing and forcing its absurd harmonization throughout Spain. Why does the government legislate to entangle and confront, in this and other matters, rather than legislate to resolve? Ladies and gentlemen, this law raises doubts in the area of competition and certifies the obsession of the People's Party with bullfighting. You create problems where there are no problems. Where there is harmony and consensus, the People's Party sows discord and confrontation. And, look, if the People's Party has such an interest in supporting and boosting culture, start by lowering the cultural VAT to 21 %. This measure was a very hard blow for the cultural industry, it has been and is its asphyxiation and its ruin. And that Minister Wert - absent once again - no longer devalues the world of the arts, that prestige by lowering cultural VAT and that provides the necessary economic resources to the sector. The Socialist Group has faced the debate on this law with an attitude of understanding. We voted not in plenary, we tabled an amendment to the whole and in the committees of Congress and the Senate we abstained. The intangible cultural heritage is inclusive, representative and must be recognized as such by the communities, groups or individuals who create, maintain and transmit it. In short, ladies and gentlemen, let us abstain, because for socialists the safeguarding of material and intangible cultural heritage is a matter of state. For us, it is not a partisan or electoral issue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Ros. For the People's Group, Mr Ruano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the feeling, the palpitation, the cultural life of the peoples of Spain, because this first and historical law of intangible cultural heritage will allow our country yesterday to come to today and today of the peoples of Spain to come to tomorrow as well. Ladies and gentlemen, today in the Congress of Deputies we will vote on a bill that has already passed through the Senate and that will allow the preservation of the intangible cultural heritage, the heritage that is of all, the cultural heritage that has been transmitted day by day, generation by generation and that gathers in its diversity all voices and one love: the love for Spanish culture embodied in the men and women of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, today we could remember Salvador Espriu, when he was writing in Catalan: There are various men and various speakers; or Álvaro Cunqueiro, when he was reciting in Galician: I would like to have all the voices; or remember the Basque Blas de Otero saying: If I have lost my voice in the weeds, I have the word. Because today we are called to safeguard the cultural voice of the people of Spain with the words of this law, a law that is made for everything that unites us, for how much it distinguishes us and for placing us as one of the richest and most varied cultural heritage in the world; a cultural heritage that has continued to expand also in its conception over the last century, a concept of cultural heritage that has increased since the traditional typology of historical, artistic or monumental heritage to add new elements that already integrate a new notion of culture. And, thus, from the traditional cultural heritage, understood as goods thing or material goods, we have gone on to add the active goods, better known today as intangible cultural goods, and all this without prejudice to the fact that in all cultural goods, both in their form of material goods and in their form of intangible goods, there is an important intangible symbolic component in which material and intangible imbrication is deep and inseparable. This character of good activity is known as a dynamic and shared cultural heritage, which involves clearly differentiated legal formulas and techniques, because, while in the protection of the historical, artistic or monumental heritage, conservation, in the case of intangible cultural bies stands out an action to safeguard the practices and the carrying communities, something that is done through intra- and intergenerational transmission and to this singular fact it is specifically the one that attends to this law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the first law to safeguard our country's intangible cultural heritage. I thank the rapporteurs, Mr Agirretxea, Mr López Vilaboa, Mrs Meijón and Mrs Tardà, Mrs Carreño, Mrs De las Heras, Mrs Ros Martínez and Mrs Surroca for their hard work and the Commission's lawyer, Mr Vicente Moret, for their understanding and constant support. Let me conclude by reaffirming what your lordships already know: This is a law of all and for all; a law that will have many voices, because it will collect and protect representative manifestations of the cultural heritage that are expressed in each and every language of Spain, that are expressed in the multiple festivals that we share, in the varied dishes that we taste and in the joyful dances that we dance. There are many voices but only one love: love for Spanish culture. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention and for your support. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u26	Thank you, Mr. Ruano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u27	We continue with the agenda and turn to the points concerning the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. On the part of the groups that have shown their willingness to intervene, Mr Nuet, on behalf of the Group of the Plural Left, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Our group will vote in favour of four of the agreements and will abstain in the fifth, which is the agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Morocco to regulate the transport of travel and goods. He's going to do it basically for three reasons. The first is that we are convinced that international treaties and conventions must be an instrument of political intervention in international relations. The second is that Morocco administers the international road transport of passengers and goods from an occupied territory, exactly Western Sahara, where you know that there is no free movement of passengers or goods; those who have travelled there know perfectly well that special provisions of the Kingdom of Morocco are applied and controls by the army and the police. Today, therefore, we are committing a nonsense: to sign with the Kingdom of Morocco an international convention that gives guarantees that Morocco does not apply to the occupied territory of Western Sahara. We all know that this occupied territory is. There is no international body that has recognized the sovereignty of the Kingdom of Morocco over Sahara; neither the African Union nor the United Nations nor any State in the world recognizes Morocco's sovereignty over Western Sahara. Within the framework of the conventions there should be a bet that the trade treaties that we sign with Israel have guaranteed clauses, for example, with the occupied territories of Palestine by the State of Israel and the treaties that we sign with Morocco indicate the anomaly of Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara. That is why we are going to abstain, not because the convention is technically poorly drafted, of course, but because - I repeat - when we sign international conventions we do not make a parentheses with regard to Spain's international commitments on human rights and other types of international conventions. It seems that with some States we do, specifically with the Kingdom of Morocco, applying a normality that does not exist. Therefore, our parliamentary group is not going to vote in favour of this convention, I repeat, and it is going to abstain. If Britain signs an international convention with the European Union, Spain looks perfectly at the situation in Gibraltar and intervenes in that international convention because it does not accept British sovereignty over that territory. We have to act equally in the case of Morocco and this issue should therefore be incorporated into the convention. As the convention does not set out a reservation that should be, we cannot vote in favour of it, although we will vote in favour of the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer, on behalf of the Group of the European Parliament, to two international treaties, announcing the vote in favour of all of them. One of the treaties that we are going to put to consideration and vote this morning is the international treaty facilitating the transport of passengers and goods between Spain and Morocco; the transport of passengers, goods and also triangular transport. It is a convention that facilitates transport between these two countries, which also means between the northern border and the southern border of the Mediterranean. This is an extension of the facilities for free movement, an extension of the commercial scope of the northern Mediterranean to an area of natural projection such as Morocco, and a reminder to all of us of the existence of an axis of communication, prosperity and economic activity, which is the Mediterranean axis. With the signing of this convention, of this international treaty, ladies and gentlemen, transport between Morocco and Spain is allowed, which in practice means feeding, reinforcing and supporting the flow of goods and travellers and triangular transport, especially - as statistics, reality and data say - between Algeciras and Perpignan, France and the rest of Europe. In fact, the Mediterranean axis is an axis of transport of prosperity, of goods and travellers, which basically develops to connect the Mediterranean with Rotterdam and the Dutch ports. Ladies and gentlemen, this is good news and that is why we are going to support this international treaty. This does not mean that we have no sensitivity for an objective fact, which is that Sahara is a territory in the process of decolonization. This is a reality, ladies and gentlemen, precisely since the day that was published in the Official Gazette of the State that Spain recognized the Spanish territory as a territory in the process of decolonization, which was, Mr Nuet, ladies and gentlemen, on 20 November 1975, a day on which surely the sub-government and the Government of the Old Regime were not very close to proceeding with the legitimate decolonization and recognizing the right to self-determination of the Saharawi people. We have always debated and tried to incorporate respect for the human rights of the Saharawi people into the mandate of the United Nations, into the mandate of the Minurso, because, with all due respect, it is the mandate of the Security Council and the mandate of the National Assembly that can allow for a human rights observation and not a treaty on the free movement of goods between Spain and Morocco. Therefore, we are sensitive to what the spokesman who preceded me in the use of the word has pointed out, but we make a clear separation between what we are discussing and other considerations of an exemplary nature. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on another convention that we are voting on today, a convention on relations between Spain and Serbia, in what has changed since Croatia joined the European Union. This is not the first time this week that we are seeing in the Commission and in plenary that the status of full member of the European Union of Croatia, since the first months of 2014, is having a positive impact on the lifting of tariff barriers from other Balkan countries that were fraternal countries within the former Yugoslavia. Two weeks ago we saw how the entry of Croatia into the European Union facilitated the lifting of Macedonia's tariffs to Croatia - that is, a gateway to products to the European Union - and this week we are seeing the same thing even with Serbia, a country which, in the final outcome of the unfortunate war in Yugoslavia, suffered sanctions from the international community. Well, from those sanctions and from the limitation of Serbia's trade and mobility flow, it has become possible for Serbia, from the moment Croatia joins the European Union, tangentially, to have the possibility of increasing its trade flow with the European Union through Croatia. That is a finding that the years have passed. The wounds of the past exist and the war in Yugoslavia, together with the current war in Ukraine, are the two most brutal wars after World War II, but this is a clear example of the European Union being a powerful, albeit imperfect, instrument for the integration and peaceful coexistence of citizens and free movement. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u31	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sáez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce our parliamentary group's vote in favour of the agreements that we are voting on today - as usual - with countries with which we have diplomatic relations. We therefore do not question any of the texts of the conventions that are put to the vote. Firstly, I would like to highlight positively the adoption of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Serbia. For our parliamentary group, any impetus to the future accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union is positive. It should be recalled that when Spain had the Presidency of the European Union, the impetus for the possible accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union was greatest, with the opening of many chapters and, therefore, we welcome this further step, which means a greater proximity of Serbia to our European community. I would also like to thank Mr Nuet for the opportunity he gives us in these international conventions to discuss some foreign policy issues. Today we are voting on an agreement with Morocco, an economically important agreement, because it will facilitate road transport, both for travellers and goods, between Morocco and Spain. We understand that it is an important convention for economic activity and this has led Mr Nuet to introduce the debate on Western Sahara. We do not want to reject this debate, and we will therefore make some contributions to this parliamentary procedure. Our parliamentary group has been denouncing to the Government of the People's Party the alarming disappearance of bilateral cooperation with the Saharan refugees. The fall in the State's general budgets from development cooperation to more than 80% of its allocation has meant that the cooperation we had with the Sahara has greatly diminished and we understand that this is making it difficult for us to talk in the area. For our parliamentary group, Spain's presence on the United Nations Security Council - we have already repeated this - should lead to respect for human rights as a flag. Precisely a few days ago, we have been disappointed in the Sahara, because - as you know - the mandate of Minurso has been renewed without competence in human rights or in relation to refugee camps in Tindouf. It is true that there must be unanimity in the vote in the Security Council, but we hoped that Spain, with its presence on this Security Council, could have influenced to modify that mandate of Minurso and that human rights would be incorporated into it or that, alternatively, the delegation of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights would have been expanded so that it could exercise an express monitoring role in relation to human rights. We would like this period of Spain in the Security Council to involve some political initiative in relation to the Sahara, where of course Spain has responsibilities. We remain comfortable in that United Nations position, which calls for a just, lasting and mutually acceptable solution for Western Sahara within the framework of the United Nations, but further steps must be taken to find a satisfactory solution. Likewise, with regard to the Sahara, our parliamentary group appreciates that Spain - there have already been complaints from some other country and from the Frente Polisario itself - is in some way breaking its neutrality in the Sahara and maintaining an even more intransigent position than France on this subject despite our history. We understand that Spain has to change its political position in relation to Western Sahara Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u33	Thank you, Mr. Saez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Beneyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Five conventions for ratification are presented to the House today: the protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Serbia to take account of Croatia's accession to the European Union, the protocol amending the double taxation agreement between Spain and Canada, a cooperation agreement on combating crime with Uzbekistan, an agreement on the reciprocal abolition of visas in diplomatic passports, which puts into effect a European Union regulation of March 2001 in relation to Angola, and the convention on international carriage by road of travellers and goods with Morocco, which may have attracted greater interest from different groups. Irrespective of the Morocco Convention, to which I shall refer in more detail, it is interesting to note the other four conventions. The reference to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Serbia takes a step forward in the integration of the Western Balkans and the countries of the former Yugoslavia as a result of Croatia's accession. It must be borne in mind that at the moment all the countries of the former Yugoslavia are in their integration process and this is more support than Spain gives to this process. I would particularly like to point out the agreement with Canada. Relations with Canada have seen a significant increase in both trade and investment in recent years. I would like to point out here the work being done by the Canadian Embassy in recent years in this regard. Undoubtedly, Canada was one of the countries in which there was a decline in both trade and investment and in which much of that delay is being recovered. It must be borne in mind that Canada has one of the ten largest economies on the planet and that at the moment, through the negotiation and conclusion of the European Union agreement with Canada, enormous possibilities for new trade and investment relations are being opened up. This protocol, which amends the double taxation agreement, represents, within its modesty, a step forward in the intensification and ease of business relations between the two countries. Important steps have also been taken in the cultural field in recent times. Canada is a country where Spanish diplomacy has put huge interests and there is substantial progress in this area. The agreement on cooperation in the fight against crime with Uzbekistan also facilitates our diplomacy in Central Asia, in the 'Stan' countries. With the development they are having and from a twofold geostrategic perspective, in some cases of rapprochement towards Russia, such as the case of Kazakhstan, and in other cases of progressive rapprochement with the Western world, it is very important that both from the European Union and from the Council of Europe and the European countries there is support for the processes, in some cases slow, in some cases with a step forward and two behind, which are having some of these countries in their democratization process. Angola has experienced in recent years, thanks to Chinese investment, significant economic development and also represents for Spanish companies and diplomacy a new horizon of cooperation and intensification of trade and economic relations. The reciprocal removal of visas, diplomatic passports, belongs to this effort to intensify relations as well. I want to stop now, as I announced, in more detail in the Convention on the International Carriage of Passengers and Goods by Road with Morocco. Obviously, the relationship with Morocco is much broader and more strategically important than a convention, but a convention is one more step, especially in an area of such relevance as road transport of passengers and goods, which is basically regulated. There is a precise determination of regular and discretionary services, with prior authorization for passenger transport, based on a multilateral Interbus agreement. There is a system of control and sanctions in the event of violations of these regulations and there is a system of quotas and also of authorizations for the transport of goods, where there are some liberalized areas, such as postal transport or removals. This system creates a regulated framework that requires stricter implementation. The convention in this regard is going to be a support for regulation to find real application in practice. In this way, the Convention will bring the legislation into line with the 2008 Protocol on the Harmonization of Practices in this field, signed by Belgium, Spain, France and Morocco. But certainly the interesting thing here is to have the opportunity right now to talk about the relationship with Morocco. The most relevant point has been mentioned in recent times, which has been the renewal of Security Council resolution 2218, renewing the mandate of Minurso. It should be noted that the Spanish Government at all times supported the possibility of extending human rights control to the entire territory of Western Sahara. This text was adopted unanimously, on the basis of the text submitted by the Group of Friends of Western Sahara, and for that purpose alone, the Government, while maintaining its position, chose to facilitate a consensus text. It should be borne in mind that at the beginning of this year, in particular until January 2015, there were significant tensions between Morocco and the United Nations. At one point there was even the possibility that the mandate of the personal envoy could not be renewed, and only through a telephone conversation between the King and the Secretary-General of the United Nations did this issue unblock. Fortunately, the mandate of Minurso has been retained, not only in its initial text, but it has been expanded in a significant way, as I will now point out. The maintenance of the ceasefire and the continued tangible representation of the international community's commitment to a solution to the conflict have been emphasized. The United Nations Security Council resolution emphasizes in a very particular way the guarantee of the unhindered safety and security of United Nations personnel. This text gives, unanimously, full support to the Secretary-General, the Personal Envoy and Special Representative, so that the diplomatic problem that was raised until the beginning of this year has been resolved. As a novelty, Member States are called upon to continue to make voluntary contributions and support food programmes in Western Sahara. For the Spanish Government, improving the situation of refugees was a priority and, of course, all the diplomatic activities and initiatives needed to ensure that, as was the case, Morocco was expanding the scope of control of what was happening in the territory of Western Sahara, a margin of control from the point of view of its full compliance with the Human Rights Committee which had been established by Morocco for some time now. It is clear that the road map is marked. It is a matter of moving forward in the political process so that Morocco and the Frente Polisario can agree on a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution that provides for the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara within the framework of United Nations-compliant arrangements. This is the clear and clear official position of the Spanish Government and has been reiterated on numerous occasions. However, the Government will continue to support the introduction of mechanisms to monitor respect for human rights in the mandate of Minurso, and will do so through its presence in the Security Council. We must not forget that the degree of cooperation with Morocco over the last few years is fortunately of greater intensity and understanding of what we have achieved so far, both in the areas of cooperation in internal and police matters - irregular immigration, combating terrorism, combating drug trafficking, police training and joint police cooperation centres - and in the field of defence, since it is the only country with which we have a programme of joint activities and, above all, great steps have been taken in the field of trade. We became the first supplier in 2013 and in 2014 we were number two, behind France, but we continue to be with that country the first two importers and exporters, respectively. Investments have experienced greater growth, although we still have a large deficit to fill. But, above all, there is the knowledge of the two societies...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u35	Mr. Beneyto, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u36	... and the presence of a larger number of tourists in Morocco predicts that, in fact, this knowledge of both societies is going to intensify, but a great deal still needs to be done in the cultural field and, above all, greater empathy and knowledge of what each of the two societies means. With regard to its foreign policy, Morocco is negotiating a deep and expanded free-trade agreement with the European Union and a mobility partnership, which the Spanish Government will of course support with appropriate measures. In short, these agreements, and in particular the agreement with Morocco, do what they do is to take further steps in this broad, deep and broad-based diplomacy of the Spanish Government, which also takes into account the interests of citizens and businesses as priorities at all times. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u37	Thank you, Mr. Beneyto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u38	We turn to the point concerning the opinions of committees on legislative initiatives and, in particular, to the draft law amending the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. To defend the amendments maintained, first of all, by the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. A statement of motives charged with laudable intentions, including partial corrections to the misdemeanours suffered in justice under the People's Party Government, whose backwardness is insufficient but at least better than nothing, as has been the case with unfair and abusive judicial fees abrogated for natural persons, not for legal persons, as is the case with this law that we are debating today, the problem is when we move from reading the statement of grounds to the analysis of the articulated, but that does not happen only with this law. Talking about good intentions to take measures to prevent access to justice is another example of hypocrisy, and proof of this was its cuts to the justice budget in 2013 and 201: the number of substitute judges has been reduced, which is causing some judges to be already holding trials for January and February next year. Thus, much of the courts in Spain suffer from overload, almost half more than 150. According to the inspection report of the General Council of the Judiciary presented at the end of 2014, in my country there is a 54% saturation in the 73 courts of first instance and the situation is even more serious if we consider that it is those same courts that have to judge the multiple cases of corruption that exist in the Valencian Community: 10 deputies accused of corruption or the 3 presidents of the 3 Valencian deputies linked to corrupt plots, one of them, Carlos Fabra, in prison. It is essential to increase the material and personal resources allocated to the Administration of Justice. The last scandal we have seen there in the Valencian country is the appointment of a politician of the Camps-friendly People's Party - who affiliated him to the Popular Alliance, to preside over the Provincial Audience of Valencia -. Is it reasonable that whoever joined Camps to Popular Alliance will judge the Gürtel plot in his Valencian branch, even though he now says that he was no longer a friend, but that he was once very, very friend? With regard to military jurisdiction, it was a good time to address the need to extract sexual harassment complaints from that jurisdiction. Another of the pending social demands, the use of the official language in the judicial system, is that there are no measures to give effect to the right of the people to address themselves and that their process is conducted in the official language of their territory, in our case in Valencian. This is a flagrant and historical violation of a legal and constitutional right, but we have seen this week what your intentions were and your willingness to fix this, null and void. The Councils of Justice of the Autonomous Communities, such as that contained in the Valencian Statute, are not said at all, as if they did not exist, and this was the occasion to clarify their content and to clarify the division of functions. Nor is any mechanism for the participation of society in the election of judges or in citizen control addressed. There is a system of access to the judicial, pre-constitutional, old, memoristic and outdated career, which has nothing to do with the values required of judges. Nor is there anything to say about reducing the number of bulldozers, and that is what President Rajoy pointed out at the time. Nor would it be too much if the privatization of the Civil Registry were once and for all to be resolved by renouncing it, as virtually everyone and all political options called for. And put to rest, it would not have been any more to recover universal justice or, at least, what remained of it in the previous Government. We understand that this is a missed opportunity and therefore we will not support it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the same group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, let me take this time to defend the amendments of the Galego Nationalist Block in order to defend all the amendments tabled to this bill by the Joint Group. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by defending our amendments Nos 13 and 31, relating to the need for knowledge of the languages of the different autonomous nations and communities that make up the State, by absolutely the whole body dedicated to the work of the Administration of Justice, from judges to prosecutors, court secretaries, etc. We cannot continue to admit, ladies and gentlemen, that the lack of knowledge of the language is an excuse for many of these professionals not to act before the citizens or to defend the rights of the citizens in their own language when, moreover, the citizens themselves request that they be treated. We therefore table these amendments because we cannot continue to violate a right recognised, moreover legally, as is the case in Galicia, by the Law on Linguistic Standardization of 1988. As I said recently in this House, after thirty years of holding the first sentence in our language, today no more than 5% of the sentences are handed down in our country's own language, Galicia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it seems important to us what we are presenting in our Amendments Nos 13 and 31, which also contain the right and obligation to know, in the case of those communities which have their own civil or foral rights, these realities in order to act properly in those communities. Amendment No 14 relates to the need to take advantage of this bill to ensure that civil registrations continue in the field of the administration of justice, that there will be absolutely no intention on the part of the Government to privatize them and that it will therefore be the body of lawyers who have the competence to maintain the gratuity of this service for all citizens. We think it is appropriate to table this amendment because, although the Government has at the moment raised some question as to whether it is going to give up the idea of such privatization, we want that to be done by law, and hence the amendments that we have tabled. Amendments Nos 12 and 6, ladies and gentlemen, are related to the competence of the autonomous communities and are intended to avoid discretionary designations by the Ministry of Justice, as well as to regulate and commit the transfer of competence to the autonomous communities over the staff of the body of lawyers, as an aid to the judicial work. We are in favour of the other group of amendments, some twenty-one, because most of them are technical in nature and relate to questions of organisation and functions of the Administration of Justice, as well as to the employment relations of officials. Let us take as an example the amendment concerning the replacement of jobs, which is currently being paralysed by the Government, or the one proposing to prevent the loss of labour and social rights, as set out in the last paragraph of Article 504(5). Ladies and gentlemen, in support of our amendments, since the Galego Nationalist Block we must once again criticise the attitude of the People's Group in relation to the handling of bills in the House throughout the legislature and, in particular, to all those laws that are related to the Ministry of Justice. There has been a lack of dialogue, no attempt has been made to reach any consensus with the political groups and, ultimately, only amendments have been accepted to incorporate into the Government's texts those presented by the People's Group, with the exception of some anecdotal exception that can be recognized by some parliamentary group. Madam President - and I conclude - we would also like to say that we regret that the Government did not want to take advantage of this bill to solve those needs we have in territories such as Galicia, in relation to the lack of courts and also of judicial personnel, because it is implying a delay in the legal proceedings and in the resolution of the matters that need to be carried out in the Administration of Justice in Galicia. Moreover, it is not something that the Galego Nationalist Block says, nor any particular question, but it is reflected in reports of the General Council of the Judiciary where it is recognized that even 15 more courts would be needed in Galicia. Therefore, we regret that this law was not taken advantage of so that from the point of view...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u42	Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u43	... some solution to a situation of clear deterioration could be sought from the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u45	Thank you, Madam President. We are faced with a partial reform of the Organic Law of Judicial Power of 1985, a law that certainly deserves a deeper and more comprehensive reform. However, its partiality or limited nature does not lack any dysfunctions that we are going to try to correct through a series of amendments which are numerous, Madam President. For the sake of brevity, I'm going to try to group them together for systematic blocks. We are already faced with a first problem in the explanatory statement, in relation to the so-called judicial plenarys, which are called to resolve disputes between sections of the same judicial body. The statement of reasons is wrong in the name of these bodies, they must be full courts, and not full non-judicial courts, as laid down in it. It is a technical amendment, but it does not seem to us to be irrelevant. With regard to article 5 bis, Madam President, the right to appeal to the Supreme Court must be based on two reasons. Firstly, that the negative and irreversible effects for the justiciable or citizens cannot cease, unless this special or extraordinary review remedy can be brought by these citizens in the event of proof of the non-stop of the negative or perverse effects and, secondly, in the case of a violation of the requirements - this is a particularly relevant amendment in our view - of the Convention on Human Rights, which already automatically legitimizes the application of this special review remedy or, where appropriate, of the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, which also has to irradiate other similar cases. Remember what happened with the Inés del Río case against the Kingdom of Spain, pursuant to the statement adopted by the General Chamber of the Supreme Court on 12 November 2012. It is not enough that the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights gives rise to the legitimation effect in order to bring an action for review, but that these remedies for review can be used in other cases with a material identity, or to those affected by a material identity, which automatically legitimizes other persons to also bring this remedy for review. In order to specialize in courts, the General Council of the Judiciary, in our opinion, Madam President, should seek the mandatory report of the Ministry of Justice, but also the mandatory report of the autonomous communities with competence in the field of justice, which is one of the shortcomings that we repeatedly see in this bill. The competences in the matter of material and personal means, the subrogatory clauses which in the statutes of autonomy provide for competences for the autonomous communities are obvious and are the subject of ignorance. This is one of the elements in which we require the spokesman of the People's Group, Mr Castillo - given his autonomous vocation - to take into account this important atrophy in a bill that is called to be the only reform in this legislature of a law as important as that which regulates the organic status of judges and magistrates, their powers and functions, the status of staff partially at the service of justice, as well as certain elements of procedural legitimacy. It also seems to us that the provision that judges under seventy-five years of age who are not retired or are not considered emeritus may be alternate judges constitutes a genuine legal-formal atrophy. If a judge is a person under seventy-five years of age, he or she cannot be an alternate judge. It is a contradiction in its own terms: either it is a judge, or it is an alternate judge. Although both are so, one is so when he is appointed on a part-time basis and the other is so by virtue of the status of judge, obtained by the procedures regulated in the legal system. Nor does it seem to us that in a situation of employment and in a situation of dysfunction of the administration of justice due to lack of means, but also due to a certain ageing of the judicial career, the extension of the career of judges as emeritus judges to seventy-five years can be established. I know that this is going to happen in the future, certainly not just with the judges but with everyone else if the pension reforms continue along the line we are getting to know, and none of us will be able to retire until the seventy-five years, but let us not go forward with events or create this dangerous precedent with regard to the judges when they are appointed as emeritus judges. As regards the processing of data subject to the corresponding files of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, we try to incorporate or add to that agency as competent in the handling and control of these files the corresponding data protection agencies existing in the autonomous communities that have them. This is done by virtue of a legitimacy to request that it emanate from a regulation of the General Council of the Judiciary, regulation 1/2015, of 15 September. The General Council of the Judiciary, through its regulatory power, has established this. Let us be no less than the General Council of the Judiciary itself in regulating this important organic law on file keeping. With regard to the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, a figure that is better identified and to which important powers are granted, mainly in the direction of the judicial office, also seems to us to be a legal atrophy and corresponding to archaic symbols whose configuration as a national body must be overcome. But not only do we ask you, Mr. Castillo, that the status of these lawyers in the service of the Administration of Justice be regulated by those autonomous communities which have competence in matters of personal or material means in the service of justice, by virtue of what is proclaimed in the requirements of the well-known ruling of the Constitutional Court 56/1990 - it is personal in the service of justice or in the service of justice - but also that your status, your legal regime, your working conditions and your formation should be determined by the autonomous communities with this competence, by virtue of that ruling. There are also requirements that refer to other bodies that currently have the character of a national body absolutely incomprehensible to our parliamentary group; we are referring to the body of forensic doctors, of the National Institute of Toxicology and Forensic Sciences, of personal and administrative management and to all others who have this character. Mr. Castillo, you constantly invoke the competence of the State provided for in article 145.1 of the Constitution and the possibility that the administration of justice will be the one to execute it, also through the provision of article 117, but too often and with some relativization of the constitutional precepts established by article 122, which provides, in co-honesty with the judgment I have quoted before the Constitutional Court, the possibility of an autonomous regulation of a link to the territorial structure of the State - and this State is already a composite State, to which the judiciary is more refractory than any other power of the State - and the possibility that these bodies will not be national by virtue of the requirements that form part of the constitutional text itself and of the constitutional jurisprudence, which you know certainly even better than I, although for reasons of political militancy you sometimes have to perform certain partial darkenings of your extensive knowledge in this matter. With regard to the appointment of lawyers of the Administration of Justice for posts located in the territorial sphere of an autonomous community with assumed competences, the criteria laid down in their own legislation for this appointment shall be assigned to these autonomous communities. After all, we are talking about lawyers who are assigned the management competence of the judicial office. And there are other competences that we want to be incorporated into these lawyers, competences in the area of voluntary jurisdiction, except for the resolution of such cases and the processing of monitoring procedures. It is a way to lighten the workload of judges and magistrates and to assign it to lawyers. It seems to us much more relevant, Mr Castillo, that the lawyers of the Administration of Justice have this competence, a provision that is laid down in the next criminal prosecution law - which we are debating now - in which the prosecutor's office, whose organizational dependence is on the Government, is assigned the possibility of resolving certain cases by decree of that ministry. This seems to us to be something truly inadequate from the perspective of the separation of powers. However, here we have this figure, the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, who could meet the direction of the judicial office, could be attributed these powers under autonomous dependence, on the basis of the criteria I have previously commented to you. With regard to the National Commission for Judicial Statistics, it must be composed of the Ministry of Justice and the autonomous communities with competence in the field of justice - this is the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi - or which have the subordinate clauses in the field of justice, to which we are referring repeatedly. In relation to article 470 again we find the configuration of all bodies at the service of justice as national bodies. This of the national bodies, Mr. Castillo, is a true archaism, it has a only symbolic dimension that could have made sense or could have been the object of pressure on these bodies in 1985, when under the hegira of John Alberto Belloch this well-deserved law, the Organic Law of the Judiciary, was approved. But in the times ahead and if you want to be honest with the constitutional requirements regarding adjusting the Administration of Justice to the requirements of a territorially composed and non-unitary State, you must start working and rethink the character of these bodies at the service of the Administration of Justice. But without going further - I would have much more powerful claims from a perspective of the ideological acquis represented by my group - I would be satisfied with the requirements of Constitutional Court judgment 56/1990. Look at the extent to which we are, through a strange transmutation, becoming constitutionalists in the face of a kind of pressure from your parliamentary group that makes even the Constitution and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court seem perhaps too bold and expansive in terms of the territorial configuration of the State. At least follow the Constitutional Court and its jurisprudence, at least in this, and be no more Jacobin than the Constitutional Court itself, which is already quite so, by the way. In the area of specialization and establishment of institutes of forensic medicine or legal medicine, the body for its establishment must be authorized by the Ministry of Justice but also by the autonomous communities with competence in this field and forensic doctors must also not have the characteristics of a national body. In fact, forensic doctors are a national body from a purely formal perspective because from a material perspective they have not been; from a material perspective their dependence has long been absolute and integral to the autonomous administrations with subrogatory clauses that grant them competence in this matter. I'm just finishing up, Madam President. In the area of initial and continuing training, a criterion is established for the homogenizing coordination of strategies or plans for the training of judges, judges and other members of the Administration of Justice. We do not believe that there is a legitimate right of competition on the part of the State to homogenize training absolutely, but that coordination mechanisms should be established. You presented the other day in relation to the CORA and the Opera a proposal indicating that it would be appropriate to create coordination platforms. These already exist. The coordination platforms to further laminate autonomous competences do not seem relevant to us, but coordination would be sufficient for vocational training in a body that, ultimately, even if we get some day that stops being a national body, will be unique, will be by a unitary Justice Administration. There is absolutely no need to homogenize training because there are elements of identity in the different nations of a plurinational State such as Spanish, such as foral law, own civil law, or language, which require substantially different training structures in some cases; in the case of Catalonia there is one's own Civil Code, in the case of Aragon there is one's own Civil Code, and in the case of Euskadi too, and there are also co-official languages in these areas. I'm done, Madam President. With regard to the functions or powers of the General Council of the Judiciary, we want to strengthen those of the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u46	Yes, Mr. Olabarría. Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u47	I'm done. The last reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary diminished the powers of the plenary, strengthening those of the permanent commission. We want this position of the former law to be reversed, strengthening and recovering for the plenary all the functions that have historically corresponded to it, and leaving to the permanent commission the issues that, because of its urgency, peremptoryness or being of immediate and routine management, have always corresponded to it, but not increasing its members, but maintaining them.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u48	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u49	I'm done with this, Madam President. Here is the usual debate, the recurring debate that Mr Jané, others and I have defended with more will than right, not because we did not do it right, Mr Jané and I, but because the uncertainty stems simply from the imposition of an absolute majority, which is the majority of the People's Party. The autonomous councils of the judiciary are a requirement of various statutes of autonomy. They're absolutely necessary...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u50	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u51	This is my last word, my last prayer.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u52	Well, say it. Last one.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u53	They are absolutely necessary to ensure the efficiency of the administration of justice, and we reiterate this request again. Thank you, Madam President, for your kindness.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u54	A lot more words. Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u55	Thank you, Madam President. My group has already called for the return to the Government of this new draft reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, because although several have been presented they all suffer from the same defect: we believe that it lacks political ambition. Beyond the technical issues, which are undoubtedly of great importance for the order of the world of the judiciary, there is a fundamental question which we believe is not addressed, and is that the shortcomings of the Spanish justice system are the main ones of our democratic system. Therefore, we do not understand that we do not want to address this profound deficiency of the Spanish democratic system, which is, as I say, a lack of independence, lack of means, and that every day is more rightly perceived as an unequal justice for the citizens, and perhaps the reason why we do not want to address this important reform is precisely this: the consequences of such a poor justice are that in Spain the possibilities of impunity for corruption, and the possibilities of having preferential or non-preferential treatment, favouring or not by the Administration of Justice has much to do with this way of structuring and conceiving it. It still seems to us that the main weakness of the justice system is its lack of independence; it still seems to us that the distribution of the General Council of the Judiciary is a democratic scandal; it still seems to us that it is incredible that political parties believe that they must safeguard the judiciary, because that makes it impossible to effectively separate the powers of the State, and justice is not only an administration, which is also a government, it is above all and in the first place a basic power of the State; and if a basic power of the State such as justice is not independent, and it does not have sufficient guarantees of independence, it is not able to fulfil its main function, which is precisely that, to control the possible excesses of the Executive and the Legislature. That explains a lot of things that happen to us in this wretched country; that it is not wretched because yes, by chance of nature or a curse of history; that it is wretched because when the Constitution was made - which was later made worse in the reform that related to the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary - it gave up an effective and solid system of separation of powers, of effective institutional counterweights, for which the independence of justice is fundamental. My group will continue to fight as long as it is necessary, even if it is alone - well, it has always been alone - against the distribution of the General Council of Judicial Power and in favour of an effective independence from this basic power of the State. We will not support any reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary or a concomitant law that does not have this objective among its priorities. Secondly and as a consequence of the above: the problem of the lack of material endowments of the courts in Spain and the judicial plant. It is truly scandalous how these court shows are accepted as normal where the files of the shelves folded under their weight fall, where the washbasins are used as archives, where some have conditions of a truly third worldly cutre - with the forgiveness of the third world, which in some things even gives us lessons in this regard - and where moreover the insufficient judicial staff makes the processes go on forever, and leads to what it said before: scandalous, demoralizing spectacles of public life, such as the eternal prolongation of lawsuits, such as impunity in the practice of many cases of corruption or above all of mismanagement of public assets, because many causes simply end up prescribing; or the two speeds that exist depending on who the accused is. In Spain there are so clearly accused VIPs who are treated differently from ordinary citizens, accused who receive the privilege that they belong to the political power and therefore receive different preferential treatment. We have just seen it again with the defendants who have been removed from the charge in the case of Caja Madrid's black cards. We do not agree that this is not the priority objective of a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, it has to guarantee equality in the treatment of citizens, and it cannot - as is happening in practice - be that the material deficiencies of the courts and the judicial system of the Administration of Justice result in a lack of political control that is necessary, and above all of the equality of judicial guardianship and of the equality of response and responsibility in the face of the failure to comply with the laws that are given in Spain. Let us add more things that are not going to be resolved with this reform, and that make it impossible for us to support it. What is still happening with the outstanding fees introduced by Mr Gallardón, which have gradually been reduced? There are still legal fees for SMEs; in addition, SMEs are the backbone - it must be repeated because it is very often forgotten - of the economy of this country, and also one of the sectors that has suffered most during the crisis; for it turns out that SMEs still have to pay fees that are dissuasive for the defence of their legitimate interests, because it can happen to any SME who, by claiming to collect or bring a debtor before a court, ends up paying more than he will actually recover in his claim. Before that, I also referred to the problem of rigging. It is exactly the same: it is the cause, origin and institutional consecration - as I said - that there are two types of accused or liable in this country. It doesn't come up here at all either. We already know that the Government says that it has a plan - a plan that we do not know about - that it says it is of democratic regeneration. The fundamental question is that all this should be seen as part of a whole reform of the judiciary so that it is an independent power, as I say, of the State. I'm done. Other issues that remain of concern to us are, for example, the abuse of office in many autonomous communities, due to ridiculous fees that show undemocratic contempt for a service as important as the guarantee of defence for any citizen who may be involved in a conflict that ends in a court of law. We also continue to see that there are blind sticks and above all the worst: an illegitimate conservative attitude, conservative in this case of the dependence of the judiciary, of its poor endowment of means, of an overload of work that prevents it from fulfilling its function, and that makes it one of the worst-rated administrations - rightly - of those that exist in Spain, causing among the citizens an absolutely justified feeling of defencelessness and inequality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u56	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with an important legal reform, in this case the General Council of the Judiciary, which meets the three requirements that appear to meet any reform that the Government presents during this parliamentary term: it is a partial reform, it is a surrender reform, and it is a reform that in some respects seems to be made to the letter of certain corporate interests. Of course, this cake has a wink that is the guinea pig of the constitutional violation in that which affects the rights of the autonomous communities, in this particular case the right of citizens to be cared for in their own language, the rights that are recognized in the statutes of autonomy of many autonomous communities. The first thing we want to say in this procedure of analysis of the opinion of the Committee on Justice is that unfortunately what we have already said at the time is confirmed: that the real objective of this reform is to give another twist to the attempts at control of the judiciary, and that is not anything, because the fact that the executive through the legislature intends to control the judiciary is ultimately to erode one of the bases of any democratic system, which is the division of powers. It's especially serious. And that attempt to control the judiciary is made in this law in a particularly ostentatious way. I'm going to give you two examples. First, by increasing the powers of the President of the Supreme Court, both in the General Council of the Judiciary and in the control of the technical cabinet, to levels of thoroughness and detail that surprise should be in an organic bill. Also in another aspect that I hope has not gone unnoticed to your ladies and gentlemen, which is the attempt to control certain chambers important to the justice of this country, especially in the sphere of the Supreme Court, from a new regulation of the status of emeritus judges, which is now intended to be done through a process of discretionary granting and annual renewal of this status. Ladies and gentlemen, we could discuss here whether or not it makes sense to maintain the status of emeritus judges, but what does not seem to be acceptable is that, once that status is recognised, what is done is to establish a mechanism that allows not only the Council of the Judiciary, but especially the Executive, through budgetary control, to determine how and how that status is maintained. It is a reform that really seems to be made to the letter of an attempt to get rid of some judges that seem to be uncomfortable for some economic power in this country. I am sure that they are not the only judges of the social chamber of the Supreme Court, which seems to some not to be subject to the design of the economic interests of the big corporations and their representatives, the big commercialist offices of this country, so uncomfortable that they have provoked a brutal media offensive through some economic press. I suppose you will not be missed a detail of yesterday, a medium of communication with a certain economic impact publishes on this topic an information, an editorial of an article of someone as relevant as Don Federico Durán, in which these judges are allowed to qualify as assault judges - almost nothing the terminology used -, to which those judges and others are accused - not to submit to the interpretation that these economic powers would wish to be the only possible one of the labor reform. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the risk that this House will end up being held hostage by the large offices of lawyers in this country, which act as a lobby without such a function being regulated or recognised. It seems that the Garrigues, the Quatrecasas, the Sagardoys, the McKenzie and the Federico Durán are not content with drafting the labor reform or the competitive reforms to this government, are not content with placing in the government executive arms directly linked to them, and are not content with placing as president of the Constitutional Court one of their main ideologist of the reform. Not content with all that they also want full control of the judges. That is, they want the judges when they analyze and interpret the law to do so to their design, to their will, and to their interest. It seems to them that they are annoyed with sentences such as those of Coca Cola, with rulings on employment regulation files or those relating to collective bargaining, and they have launched an offensive as shameful as it is brazen. So far that could go unnoticed, it is part of everyone's interest, but the problem is that this House is about to adopt a rule that puts in the hands of the Executive Power the possibility of doing that control. I would therefore like to draw attention to this and ask the People's Party to reflect on this. With regard to the General Council of the Judiciary, let me tell you that you are not content with the reform Gallardon of greater concentration of powers and powers in the permanent commission of the Council, in a clear fraud of law to the Constitution, which certainly received the rejection of our group and of the whole House, with the exception of the People's Group, now you grant all kinds of powers to the President of the Supreme Court, even in the appointment of the Chamber Coordinators, with which - you may well note - you establish a hierarchical relationship within the Supreme Court itself in relation to the President and Chamber Coordinators who are improper of their own judicial function. The result is a concentration of competences, I insist, a fraud of law. Indeed, we would like someone to explain to us by the People's Group what the disappearance of the gender of women means in the description of the position of president of the Equality Commission, which now becomes president of the Equality Commission. I sincerely hope for an explanation, because otherwise I have doubts. I do not know what is more serious in this writing, whether the misogyny that emerges or the stupidity that proves itself. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, in relation to the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, the Government is inventing a supposed claim from the judicial secretaries for a change of name. Judicial secretaries have been asking for two things for a long time. The first is an in-depth reform of the General Council of the Judiciary, which gives them powers and functions and empowers them, so that they can properly develop the function of director of the judicial office. And, secondly, they ask that they be given resources for this, and this is not a corporate claim, because once and for all being translated into some reform of the judiciary, it would allow to dignify the quality of the public service of justice - which is lacking -, reinforcing the status of the director of the judicial office and of the secretaries. Instead you go and change your name, and you say it is a historical claim of the collective. The normalization of military justice, which in your view was an objective of this bill, we do not see it anywhere; on the contrary, elements of exceptionality are maintained without any justification, and the most important thing is that the existence of military jurisdiction is maintained. Let me tell you that it is a joke of displeasure that the Government - a Government that presents itself as the reformer of the world, because it has reformed absolutely everything if it is listened to them - tells us that during this legislature it has not yet had the opportunity to really proceed to a reform of military jurisdiction - reform that must entail its disappearance and maintenance as a specialty, but not as a jurisdiction proper to military justice - and that it undertakes to do so within two years. This is a joke of bad taste, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to another aspect that we also consider important, and which is the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, you lose the opportunity to effectively regulate the implementation of these judgments. It cannot be that after these sentences have been handed down on more than one occasion to the Spanish State, you have established a regulation that only allows the execution of those sentences to which you have been affected, and not to third parties, at least to the prosecutor's office or to other parties. It is also inconceivable that some demands for justice, such as the normalization of the use of co-official languages in the courts and courts of the autonomous communities, are treated - that is, the one that once again does not - by the reform of the judiciary. I insist that you continue to deny fundamental rights, because the right to effective judicial protection is the right to be treated, served and tried in the co-official language of the autonomous community, which in many cases is its own language, and at the same time violating the statutes of autonomy, which were, of course, approved by these General Courts. In short, ladies and gentlemen, our group is going to maintain our vote against. We will vote in favour of a large part of the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Basque Parliamentary Group, the Catalan Parliamentary Group with some exception, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and although with more differences than those of the Progressive Union and Democracy Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Convergence and Union]] Let us hope that this is at least the last reform of the General Council of the Judiciary, because you play things, things that get worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u58	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Jané. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a missed opportunity. It is a partial reform that does not even respond to rules adopted by these General Courts, such as the statutes of autonomy of the new generation, in which there are concrete forecasts of reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary that have been pending since 2006. On this occasion, instead of fulfilling what various justice ministers had announced, we once again diverged and carried out a reform that for Convergence i Unió represents a missed opportunity, and we deeply regret it. To repair this legislative initiative that does not respond to what, from autonomous communities like Catalonia, we have been demanding for years the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i Unió has tabled more than eighty amendments to this bill, some of them technical, but with important legal significance. I would like to point out - Mr Coscubala said now - that we too regret that this reform is not being used to make the European Court of Human Rights resolutions more effective, and to make those resolutions more effective, it is imperative that a specific decision on the case should be made in order to bring an appeal to the Supreme Court, and this implies that it is impossible to comply if, by identity with settled assumptions, the application is not allowed. So, what do we ask? That such a review can also be supported on equal grounds or that it resolves an essentially equal demand, although - I repeat - it is not that identity, which will severely limit those review resources. We are talking nothing less than the implementation of European Court of Human Rights resolutions. Therefore our Amendment No 136 - as Mr Olabarria and Mr Coscubaila have said - is in that direction. We have then tabled a large number of amendments - which I am not going to detail - aimed at competences which are attributed to the Government of the State, and which must be carried out by the governments of those autonomous communities which have assumed competence in the field of the administration of justice. It is nothing more and nothing less than what Mr Olabarría has specified in his speech: to comply with the so-called subrogatory clause. To sum up this set of amendments, I will only read an existing article of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, article 109, which reads as follows: the Generalitat exercises, in addition to the powers expressly conferred by this Statute, all the functions and powers which the Organic Law of the Judiciary grants to the Government of the State in relation to the Administration of Justice in Catalonia. This subrogatory clause is not complied with; in the area of judicial demarcation, in the area of the report on whether or not new courts of violence against women are needed, in the area of the provision of material means and the management of judicial archives these forecasts are not complied with, and there are therefore a whole range of amendments aimed at giving this effective compliance. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to refer to an important, important aspect, which is also an outstanding subject, and which we are not doing; I am referring to the justice councils of the Autonomous Communities. There are legal predictions that someone may consider to be ghost predictions, because in certain laws we refer to organs, councils of justice of the autonomous communities, which later have no legislative development. We therefore call for the establishment of these justice councils of the Autonomous Communities; we call for this in our Amendment No 146. I would like to recall that they are in the Statute of Catalonia, but they are also in the Statute of Andalusia, article 144; in the Statute of Aragon, article 64; in the Statute of Castile and León, article 42; in the Statute of Extremadura, article 52; in the Statute of the Balearic Islands, article 96; in the Statute of Valencia, article 33; and they are not complied with. The justice councils of the autonomous communities are also included in the Organic Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in its articles 11 and 36. He refers to the transfer of the memory to the justice council, and that council does not exist; or that before appointing the senior prosecutor, the proposal will be referred to the higher justice council of the autonomous community, which does not exist; or the Basic Statute of the Public Employee itself understands that the public employee will be in a position of special services when he becomes a member of the justice council of an autonomous community that I repeat does not exist. Ghost bodies, bodies promised by various Governments, regulated in various laws adopted by these General Courts, and we call for them to be established within the framework of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court itself, and fulfilling the character that this jurisprudence has attached to them. Another set of amendments refer to the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, formerly called judicial secretaries. We have asked - and Mr Olabarría also said - for his transfer to the autonomous communities, but while that transfer does not arrive we ask for the intervention of the autonomous communities in a set of actions on these bodies. Today we denounce the changes that the People's Group has made, through amendments to Articles 466 or 464, on the length of the term of office of the provincial coordinating secretaries or the secretaries of government. I was told by Mrs Surroca that there is concern, which we share, about that ten-year time limit, when earlier that ten-year time limit was not exceeded. They are also told: you will not be more than ten years as provincial coordinating secretary or secretary of government of an autonomous community, but instead you will be able to be in another province or in another autonomous community. It doesn't make any sense, so we're asking for a correction, and if not, as Mrs. Surroca said, we'll do it in the Senate. There are also a number of amendments concerning the competences that the Autonomous Communities must have over personnel and material means. It is a question, Madam President, of strictly complying with articles 103, personal means, and 104, material means, of the Statute of Catalonia We cannot regulate in some statutes some competences, and when it comes to us to implement them through the Organic Law of the Judiciary we forget about them. This is also not to comply with the Constitution, because the statutes are part of the block of constitutionality. We therefore demand their fulfillment. Among this set of more than 80 amendments is number 206, which concerns the powers of prosecutors. These new powers must be adapted through the Civil Prosecution Act to the Organic Law of the Judiciary, and the necessary regulatory provisions must be made. I would like to conclude by referring to the powers of the General Council of the Judiciary, to the new configuration of the General Council of the Judiciary, for which there will again be an amendment through this bill. We would like, as Mr Olabarría said, to strengthen the position of the plenary. We'd like to ensure rotation. We would like to strengthen the required majorities for certain agreements. We would like the Chair of the Equality Commission to continue to be a woman. We would like to clarify the circumstances in which a majority is alluded to and what kind is not said. We would like to strengthen the General Council of the Judiciary as a whole, in its entirety, and give it the powers that the Constitution confers on that body. We therefore call for a correction through a set of amendments which I had the opportunity to defend in plenary. I'm done. There are numerous amendments on a debate that we had last Tuesday: that of the knowledge of the language and of the law proper to those autonomous communities which have their own official language and their own law. We ask that this knowledge be a requirement, according to what the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia also says, and we will not marry to say - and I repeat that we had a monographic debate last Tuesday - that this reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary is necessary in terms of knowledge of the language and knowledge of one's own right; it is necessary. If I may, we could do so with transitional clauses, gradually and especially aimed at those who intend to stay in that autonomous community with their own right and official language. We could look for nuances, we could look for transactions, we could open the dialogue. The Minister of Justice told me one day that they were willing to talk about it, because we would have a great opportunity to do so through the set of amendments that he has tabled on the knowledge of language and of own law in this process Convergence and Union. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u60	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Aguilar.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the rush is not a good counselor and we are, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, before a bill that, like the rest of the bills that come to the House - it is customary - is being dealt with very quickly and there is no real opportunity for dialogue, agreement or consensus. Once again we also find that the People's Parliamentary Group substantially amends his Government's bill, bringing to the debate in Parliament a bill substantially different from that which the Government at the time introduced. The Socialist Group's amendments aim to give coherence and strength to the project, to introduce common sense - which it does not currently have - and to ensure, above all, that it serves the general interest. As we have already pointed out in the debate on the whole, ladies and gentlemen, you intend to push through the back door some of the worst aspects of Mr Gallardón's bill on demarcation and judicial plant. Thus, from the point of view of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, they violate two constitutional principles: one, the principle of effective judicial protection; two, and in a very special way, that which establishes the right to a judge predetermined by law. That is why we are proposing the deletion of paragraphs 24 to 26 of the single article of the text we are discussing. This, ladies and gentlemen, is, among other reasons, because it is not up to the Government, through real decrees, neither the General Council of the Judiciary nor the governing chamber of the courts to agree on the rules for the distribution of cases on the basis of particular criteria and not by those established in a legal text, as advocated by our Magna Charter, our Constitution. Not only is what you claim to be contrary to the constitutional text, but it will help to diminish the quality of response of certain courts, such as those dealing with violence against women. Nothing's gonna get better, ladies and gentlemen, and a lot's gonna get worse. We are faced with another more missed opportunity to have made a bill as needed by the scope of the judiciary. As far as the judicial secretaries are concerned, much has already been said by the rest of the parliamentary groups, but allow me two questions. On the one hand, it seems that the Government is satisfied only with the change of name, to now designate the judicial secretaries as lawyers of the Administration of Justice, and they have not wanted to go into depth in relation to their work and functions. On the other hand, my parliamentary group has to say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, that we cannot in any way accept the covert ERE for the judicial secretaries you have introduced in the amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. It is the same wording that they introduced for judges and prosecutors, and that meant that 700 judges were fired and 300 prosecutors lost their jobs; it was an ERE of 1,000 jobs, and now they want to do it with the court secretaries. That's why we can't admit it or accept it. With regard to the General Council of the Judiciary, we amend paragraphs 85 to 87 and I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Congress does not share the model of the General Council of the Judiciary that the People's Party, which the Government of the People's Party approved in Organic Law 4/2013, so far we do not share that we have resorted to it. Now you are amending your own law two years later, and increasing by two members the Standing Committee of the General Council of the Judiciary, a decision which you have neither explained in the explanatory statement nor in the procedure of the law, nor motivated nor reasoned on. Nor do you say, as they said in the Commission, that it is due to a report by the General Council of the Judiciary because it is not. Second question with regard to the permanent committees of the Council: 52% of the judicial career, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is made up of women; there are four standing committees of the Council, but three preside over men and only one is presided over by a woman, the Equality Commission; and it is also presided over by law. Now you are amending the law so that this committee of the council does not have to chair it by a woman and, curiously, the Equality Commission is the only one of the four equals in its composition. I have to ask you and ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, why do you consider that parity should only be incorporated into the Equality Committee and not into the other three committees which are chaired by men? There's no reason or explanation. You cannot give a reason or an explanation for it, the only thing you can say and express and accept, above all, is that the People's Party does not believe in equality policies nor does it have equality policies. What is the reason why the four commissions of the General Council of the Judiciary are not equal? Please convince us, explain it to us. They have no explanation, we're sure of it. If you truly believe in parity, implement it in the four committees of the General Council. With regard to the appointment of emeritus judges, where they include those of the Supreme Court, you change the current situation consolidated by jurisprudence and establish a mechanism that appears to be a review each year to each emeritus judge or judge so that those who disagree or do not behave well cannot continue. It seems that the disagreements do not take place and a mechanism has been sought to remove them from this situation, going in the opposite direction to what was consolidated by the jurisprudence. Finally, with regard to the General Council of the Judiciary, I would like to say that the Technical Cabinet of the Supreme Court will convert it into a cabinet of the Presidency, and whoever it is, and at the time when it is the President of the Supreme Court or the General Council of the Judiciary, this may result in a Chamber Control Body, and we do not think it would be desirable, much less, to the contrary. With the amendment to amend paragraph 20 of Article 85(6), the People's Parliamentary Group has offered us a compromise amendment which we think is manifestly insufficient because it does not incorporate something that seems to us to be key to the Socialist Parliamentary Group: that the Mercantile courts, given their specialization in competitions, should understand the competitive processes of natural persons even if they are not entrepreneurs. That is why we have proposed the reform and we hope that from here to the Senate the People's Parliamentary Group will complement the compromise it has made to us, as it only contemplates part of our amendment and leaves behind a substantial element. As far as forensic doctors are concerned, we must say that even they have come to their privatization efforts, suggesting that forensic doctors can make reports and opinions at the request of private individuals. The truth and truth is that the figure of the forensic doctor was created for technical assistance to courts, courts, prosecutors and offices of the Civil Registry in the matters of their professional discipline, and we do not understand why forensic doctors now suddenly have to issue reports at the request of individuals. For what and why will forensic doctors work for the defense of private or private interests, or for an indeterminate general interest that relates in the law that makes no sense? Do you want to tell us why you want to privatize the public service that forensic doctors do? Are you looking at the interest of large insurance companies or who are you looking at with this measure that you pose so dark and opaque? Make it transparent and clear and explain it if you have nothing to hide. Finally, Madam President, I conclude with two questions. Firstly, my group has submitted an additional provision to Article 23(13a) and to Article 23(4),(5) and (6) to restore to the Spanish courts and tribunals what they should never have removed, jurisdiction over universal jurisdiction. It is a question, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, of coherence; it is a question of principle; it is a question of country, of the Spanish brand, as you like to say. The recent exonerations of criminal responsibilities have been a clearly worrisome episode for the prestige and reputation of our courts which, without a doubt, do not deserve it. Do not continue to give this deal to our courts. Please get back what you should never have taken from him. I'm done, Madam President. My parliamentary group had submitted an additional provision, 262, raising the need for a two-year statutory vacancy for the entry into force of the 2011 Civil Registry Act. The truth and truth is that after the dialogue we have had, the People's Parliamentary Group has raised the possibility of an agreement by all the parliamentary groups in the House to repeal, definitively, what we were all concerned about the Civil Registry and which meant the privatization of it. As I would like it to reflect what the Socialist Parliamentary Group has been advocating in this House and in all areas and bodies, and also reflect what public officials and trade unions have advocated on the street, we are going to withdraw this amendment because it is a good time, since we have been able not only to reach an agreement, but to put an end to an unwanted situation, such as the privatization of the Civil Registry. We have made the Civil Registry public, free of charge and at the service of the citizenry, so I think we should congratulate all of us, and so does the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Aguilar. For the People's Group, Mr. Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u63	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for this bill now ends in Congress, and on balance we can conclude that the bill we are voting on today has substantially improved with its parliamentary procedure. First of all, I would like to point out that the opposition has already made its position clear in the debate as a whole; a position maintained and reiterated now by its spokespersons. This has been the case because some of its partial amendments have intended to maintain the current regulation by insisting on its amendment to the whole, and with others they have wanted to modify the model of council regulated by Organic Law 4/2013, a model that responds to the decision of the General Courts, whose will is respected in the text we are discussing. Nor have there been any proposals with which they have sought to incorporate different issues within the scope of this bill, or which are totally contrary to the spirit that has inspired this reform or which dealt with matters that did not require provision in organic law, since their regulation is the subject of lower-ranking provisions or which must be terminated by regulation. Despite this, of the 297 amendments to the joint text tabled have been incorporated during the parliamentary procedure sixty amendments, of which twenty-five were tabled by the opposition groups. So without stopping to list all the improvements, I do want to point out that they are related to very diverse and relevant issues affecting the institutes of forensic medicine and sciences, the new functions and sanctioning regime of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, the extension of the powers of the secretaries of government, the powers of the coordinating secretaries, as well as the rules of distribution and their transitional regime, among many others. Today we are presenting to the plenary compromise amendments to two amendments by the Socialist Group, which I hope will be accepted. The first proposes a compromise to Amendment 249 on the quota for persons with disabilities, in order to increase the quota for officials of the Administration of Justice from 5% to 7%, of which 2% will be for persons with intellectual disabilities. With the second, we are offering a compromise to Amendment No 227 so that Mercantile courts can know about collective actions relating to general conditions of procurement and the protection of consumers and users. I would now like to refer, as the spokesman for the Socialist Group also mentioned, to the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group to the single derogation provision proposed by the vacatio legis in relation to the Civil Registry to delay the entry into force of Law 20/2011 on the Civil Registry until 2017. Mrs Aguilar has announced that they will withdraw her amendment and we welcome it. It seems to us opportune - so will the People's Parliamentary Group, I understand that according to other groups in this House - to present an amendment to the draft law on administrative reform measures in the field of the Administration of Justice and the Civil Registry, which we are currently dealing with, and whose deadline for amendments to the article expires today, extending the deadline for the entry into force of Law 20/2011 on the Civil Registry until 30 June 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, there are good and substantial improvements which, together with the technical comments made by the Commission's lawyers, to whom I would like to express my appreciation for their magnificent work, have enabled us to move forward and improve on the draft law that we are debating today. A long-awaited bill, which will allow us to deal with the modernization and transformation of our justice with realistic and reasonable measures, modifying those procedural and organizational habits that are fraught with its efficiency. Having said that, which was the first thing I wanted to do in my speech, I would now like to refer to one of the amendments tabled by the opposition groups this morning. I will start with those relating to the regulation of the General Council of the Judiciary, as some groups have put forward in their critical amendments aimed mainly at the composition of the Standing Committee of the General Council of the Judiciary and the chairmanship of the Equality Committee. As far as the composition of the Standing Committee is concerned, I would first like to recall that this option was put into effect by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, which urged the Government to propose no law, registered on 25 May 2012, to restructure the governing bodies of the General Council of the Judiciary to reduce the number of members released to the reduced Standing Committee, in such a way that the rest would be compatible with the performance of their profession. The bill now proposes an increase in the number of members of the Standing Committee, from five to seven. The justification, following the experience of almost a year of operation of the new council, is found in the General Council of the Judiciary itself; specifically in its report of 27 June 2014 to the preliminary draft reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary. This report states: '...it might be appropriate for this commission to be composed of the president of the Supreme Court and the General Council of the Judiciary, who will preside over it, and seven other members: four of those appointed by the judicial office and three of those appointed by the office of jurists of recognized competence. 'And so it has been done. As for the amendment of the Equality Commission, they criticise the elimination of the forecast, according to which this Commission should be chaired by a woman. Well, this change is also due to a recommendation contained in the report of the General Council of the Judiciary of 27 June 2014 to which I referred earlier, and which points out - I quote the page, 510 - that it is more appropriate for it to be presided over by the deputy appointed between them, because it does not seem appropriate for the presidency to be imposed on a woman, thus introducing a distinction by sex ex lege in the Equality Commission. However, with regard to the equality policy of the Government, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which formulated the amendment, silenced any reference to all measures included in the bill in order to enhance the fight against gender-based violence. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that enhancing and improving the effectiveness of the fight against gender-based violence is one of the main objectives of this reform. As you know, the Organic Law of the Judiciary established the courts of violence against women as specialized bodies to deal with these matters in an exclusive and exclusive manner. However, despite the initial regulation, in those places where a court of this nature has not been established, domestic violence cases are attributed to the courts of First Instance and Instruction or the courts of Instruction, and there is therefore no effective specialization of these courts. Thus, this reform enhances the possibility of extending the jurisdiction of courts of violence against women to two or more judicial parties, thereby ensuring the specialization sought in this area. It should be recalled that one of the measures to improve the response to gender-based violence contained in the National Plan for the Awareness and Prevention of Gender-based Violence is precisely to establish measures to enable the union of judicial parties in this area. Similarly, the Congress Equality Commission unanimously approved the report of the subcommission for the study of the functioning of the Organic Law 1/2004, drawn up after months of work and the result of the reflection and contributions of all persons who, from their various responsibilities, had appeared. One of the conclusions reached by this subcommission is the importance of providing the above-mentioned courts with qualified staff with adequate training and expertise. The Women in Equality Forum and the State Observatory against Gender Violence also agree on the positive assessment of exclusive courts, noting that they operate faster and more effectively than compatible courts. In the opinion of the Convergència i Unió and Vasco parliamentary groups, this bill misses a new opportunity to decentralize the government of the judiciary through the creation of the justice councils of the autonomous communities. I think it is important to clarify, firstly, that these cannot be governing bodies of the judiciary; secondly, that their only constitutional margin is in relation to the competences assumed by the autonomous community in relation to the administration of justice and, finally, that their eventual regulation is a legislative option, not an obligation, as can be seen from judgment 31/2010 of 28 June. For the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group, what is more coherent is that the judiciary, which is unique and composed of judges and magistrates who form a single body - article 122.1 of the Constitution - is governed by a single constitutional body. With regard to the fact that knowledge of the communities' own languages is a requirement and not just a merit, I do not want to reopen discussions that we have already had in this House, specifically in the whole debate last Tuesday. I will confine myself to pointing out at this point that the current regulation of the Organic Law of the Judiciary concerning the knowledge of co-official languages and of the law of the courts, when it comes to access to the posts of the Administration of Justice and to provide for posts within it, is in line with the provisions of the Constitution and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. We therefore understand that the forecast as a merit to be valued is sufficient in this respect, since it will give advantage to the candidate who has that knowledge and, however, does not discriminate against those who do not have it. Olabarría also reminds us of an old nationalist aspiration, which is the dependence of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice as staff of the autonomous communities, without prejudice to their rights and their attachment as a body. In this regard, I think it is important to recall that the 2001 Covenant for the Reform of Justice provides that judicial secretaries shall constitute a single national body of senior technical officials under the Ministry of Justice, given the unique nature of the power in which they render their services. This pact has informed all legislative reforms since the adoption of the Organic Law 19/2003, therefore the maintenance of the national character and its dependence on the Ministry of Justice is considered an essential aspect that has contributed to the homogenization of judicial proceedings, which results in the more effective and efficient administration of justice. I don't have time for more. Other issues that have already been discussed today have been sufficiently discussed in the whole debate and in the Commission, and I refer to that. In any case, I would not like to end without referring to the criticisms made about the alleged privatization of forensic doctors. The truth is that, far from developing private expertise, the issue is that they can provide services when the Administration so establishes, in order to participate in those mediation and out-of-court dispute resolution processes that are legally determined to be suitable mechanisms for reducing litigation and making a more expeditious resolution of conflicts possible. What is very difficult to understand is that on the one hand some get the kindness that public officials collaborate in mediation and extrajudicial settlement of conflicts at the service of the citizenry and, on the other hand, that those who think so accuse this privatization reform. I conclude, Madam President, today we have debated and will vote on a draft that will undoubtedly provide an adequate response to the general demand for a more efficient functioning of the Justice Administration in order to ensure that citizens receive a more modern, agile and rational service. [[The Lord]] So while some group thinks what their project should be, we'll go with ours. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Castillo. Before we enter into the debate on the latest draft law, I would like to tell you that Mr. Mohamed Al Mour, President of the Federal National Council of the State of the United Arab Emirates, accompanied by a very important representation of that House of the United Arab Emirates, is accompanying us in the rostrum. We welcome you and warmly thank you for your presence here. [[Applauds]] - DRAFT LAW ON THE STATUS OF THE NATIONAL MEMBER OF SPAIN IN EUROJUST, THE LEGAL CONFLICT, THE JUDICIAL NETWORKS OF INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AND THE PERSON DEPENDENT OF THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE OUTSIDE. [[File number 121/000135]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u65	Opinion on the draft law regulating the status of Spain's national member in Eurojust, conflicts of jurisdiction, judicial networks of international cooperation and staff of the Ministry of Justice abroad. In order to defend the amendments put forward, I have the floor, first of all, for the Basque Group, Mr Olabarría. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is an important bill that affects the updating and configuration of Eurojust, which is not born today, born from the forecasts contained in Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in its consolidated version; from the Framework Decision - its embryo - 2002/187, and from the Framework Decision that updates it, 2009/426. Mr President, the lack that we see and intend to correct, through three relevant amendments that we have tabled to this bill, is the disregard for the fact that in the Spanish State there is not only a police force or police forces at the state level, but there are autonomous police officers of an integral nature, who in their field have the same powers as the police at the state level. We are referring specifically to the Ertzaintza and the Mossos d ́Esquadra. The Ertzaintza is shaped by the provisions of article 17 of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy, whose dimension is the updating of historical rights that are constitutionalized by the single additional provision of the Constitution. It consists in updating Basque forality in this field, in the police field, by converting the former bodies of miquelets and minions into a new body called Ertzaintza, which has full competence in the field of citizen security, has full competence in the field of judicial police and full competence in the field of civil protection, that is, integral police powers. The same is true of the Mossos d'Esquadra, Mr President. They are powers - they are constitutionalized - that bear this legitimacy of the first additional provision of the Constitution and of the unique additional provision of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. Its existence is even prior to the existence of the Civil Guard, founded by the second Duke of Ahumada on May 13, 1844. From this perspective, the connection between Eurojust and Europol, which not only connects or harmonises the role of judges within Europe but also that of prosecutors and police officers, must also include the presence of all police officers who have comprehensive police functions, as I say, in the Spanish State. Article 18 of the draft law, Mr President, provides that, when deemed necessary in the light of the matter to be dealt with, the Eurojust national coordinator may convene the Europol national unit. Please see to what extent the connection between Eurojust and Europol is specific and materially clear. Neither are the Ertzaintza nor the Mossos d'Esquadra in Europol, and we have denounced it on numerous occasions. In Europol, the Ertzaintza and the Mossos d'Esquadra must be the integral police, and therefore our amendment to Article 18 consists of the following: Europol's national unit will be able to claim the existence of representatives of the State Security Forces and the Autonomous Polices, as well as of the Deputy Directorate of Customs Surveillance. In another area, Mr President, the amendment by our parliamentary group to Article 5 refers to the powers of the national member of Eurojust and, in particular, to the obligation to send to the Ministry of Justice, the President of the General Council of the Judiciary and the State Prosecutor an annual report on the activities carried out by Eurojust, both of a judicial nature and those relating to the fiscal ministry or to the police, to all, Mr President, establishing that the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, will send a copy of the report to the Congress of Deputies - we receive a copy of the annual reports of Eurojust - to the Senate, and we also want the incorporation of the legislative chambers of the autonomous communities as long as there is also judicial power in the autonomous communities, residing in the autonomous communities, even if it is not in the autonomous communities, but at least there are police autonomous communities with integral powers in the police field, whose organic dependence falls on these autonomous communities and their respective governments. The second amendment we have already indicated: the need for Eurojust's national coordinator to be able to summon the representative of Europol's national unit and, in turn, to address the State Security Forces and Corpses as well as the autonomous integral police in the Spanish State. And the third and last, Mr President, refers to the fact that, when the matter so requires, the Ministry of Justice may address the Ministry of the Interior in order to propose the appointment of contact points - important foresight - belonging to the State Security Forces and Bodies and, according to the incorporation that we intend, autonomous police of an integral nature existing in the Spanish State. All these may also be addressed to the State Tax Administration Agency, but we should also indicate: and tax administrations, since in the Spanish State there is not a single tax administration but several, under the provisions of the Law on Economic Concert for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the Economic Convention for Navarre. In short, it is also intended to adjust the functioning of Eurojust to the existence of comprehensive police officers within the Spanish State, police officers with full powers in police matters, in security matters, in judicial police matters, in matters of civil protection, when in these autonomous communities the powers of the State Security Forces and Bodies are not only not full, Mr President, but are assessed. In Euskadi and the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, the State Security Forces and Bodies can perform only those functions which specifically recognize them with the relevant Statute of Autonomy, functions relating to the issuance of certain official documents, functions relating to aliens, borders and police activities of a supra-autonomous nature. Only these are the responsibility of the State Security Forces and Corpses, all the others are the responsibility of the autonomous police of an integral nature. This is not contradictory either with Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in its consolidated version or with Framework Decisions 2009/425 or 2002/189; it is not only not contradictory, but it is clearly compatible as long as these Community rules refer to the participation of all European police with competence in matters of citizen security, judicial police, even civil protection. It is a question of correcting democratic atrophy, the legal atrophy of excluding full-time police with competence plans of European coordinating bodies. The spokesman for my group, Aitor Esteban, has asked the President of the Government on more than one occasion for the reasons that justify this forecast and the President's response has not been more disappointing, more discouraging and more complex to interpret: the President of the Government has commented that they are already there, that the State is already representing all the police in the Community's bodies of representation or of action both of judicial coordination and of police coordination, both in Europol and in Eurojust. It is not enough for the state to be there, all the police with full powers, all the police with full powers, because if not what we are going to achieve, Mr President, it is that these Community coordination bodies, both in judicial and police matters, suffer and suffer from the dysfunctions arising from the fact that police forces with full powers in certain areas of the European territory - I no longer refer even to the Spanish territory, of the European territory - are unable to provide and provide the data necessary for proper police coordination in the face of the challenges that public security, increasingly transnational challenges, demand today. From that perspective, as long as we do not correct it - and it is a good opportunity to meet and, if necessary, to accept the amendments we propose - there will be neither a judicial nor a judicial response to the challenges of new forms of crime nor an effective police response to the challenges of the new crime, which are increasingly transnational, which must increasingly be met from a European perspective, as we are demanding for other phenomena such as that of foreigners, and that as long as the requirements of the legal system as regards the existing police and their competences are undermined or underestimated, we will not have sufficient agility or efficiency elements to meet the requirements of Community rules or law on coordination. The field of coordination is fundamental and suffers as long as all those who need to be coordinated are not present in these bodies and all those who have the opportunity and legitimacy to provide information are not present in these bodies. Please respond to these requirements of my parliamentary group, it is not the first one that we raise them, attend to them, because if you do not merely foresee in the constitutional bloc that in the Spanish State there are not only State Security Forces and Bodies, but there are also autonomous police officers of an integral nature, you will remain little less than in dead letter, you will lack practical meaning, functional meaning. These are the amendments, this is the justification for the amendments that we have tabled and we hope, on the basis of reiterating, Mr President, that the consciences of the responsibility that we want - and we have the impression that the Group of the European People's Party should also want it - that the Community bodies acting on new criminal phenomena are supranational in nature, that they are European in character and that all those who can contribute something are there, that we want to do so, and to do so, as I say, Mr President, it is a good opportunity to accept these three amendments that my group is presenting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. My group is going to support the Commission's opinion, we believe it is an interesting law and it improved during its passage through the Commission. We have tabled four amendments, one has been accepted, three have remained alive which have to do with improvements in transparency and the appearance of Spain's national member in Eurojust, and we hope that they can be accepted during their processing. Furthermore, as I say, it seems to us to be a correct text and we will support the opinion.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Jané has the floor. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Convergence i Unió will vote in favour of this bill. We have already had the opportunity to do so in the Commission procedure, where it was unanimously adopted, and this is consistent with what the draft law itself seeks. It is a commendable claim to adapt to the decisions of the European Council on Eurojust, recalling that the aim is to strengthen the fight against serious forms of crime and also to strengthen the exchange of information and cooperation on terrorist crimes. Therefore, Mr President, in Convergence and Unite, let us endorse all the amendments that Mr Olabarría defended a few minutes ago on behalf of the Basque Group, PNV. Convergence i Unió will also endorse each and every one of these amendments in the Senate, because in this strengthening that the bill aims to be more effective in the fight against serious forms of crime by incorporating into the Spanish legal order the new requirements of the decisions of the European Union and by clearly strengthening the status of Eurojust, we have to incorporate here, as Mr Olabarría said, the security aspect represented by the autonomous police bodies of the Basque and Catalan countries and which must actively participate in everything that information exchange means. Mr Guillaumes, spokesman for our group in the Committee on the Interior, has repeatedly defended in every bill and in various debates the necessary consideration of the autonomous police in forming part of these police databases, which is nothing more than integrating them into the fulfilment of a shared mission among all, which is to be more effective in the fight against crime. To this end, we must share databases and give the autonomous police the necessary intervention in the laws we pass in this House. Therefore, thank you, Mr Olabarría, for that defense that we do ours and that we will also incorporate because it fully fits in with the purpose that this bill sets out. I am not going to review all the amendments tabled by Convergence i Unió, but I would like to focus on one of them which we believe should be dealt with significantly in the plenary of the House and voted by all the parliamentary groups. I am referring to a new configuration that makes the draft law, in accordance with the European decision as well, the mandatory appointment of an assistant to the national alternate member, and it is said - you will see, ladies and gentlemen - that he will have his place of work in Eurojust or Madrid. This is said in the law. I respectfully ask you to vote in favour of all the Members of this House, the majority of whom are of different constituencies from that of Madrid, and knowing in advance that this deputy member is almost certainly going to have his seat in Madrid. The law says that it must have its headquarters in Eurojust or Madrid, and we add: or in any other city of Spanish territory. This amendment, number 9, should be voted on in the affirmative by all its members, because if it is not that by law a centralism of administrative location of a new office is formalized, and this for Convergence and Union is unacceptable. And it is not only for Convergence i Unió, a group in which the origin of all its deputies is from the Catalan constituencies, but it is for any of you who represent any constituency and who by law will tell you that only in Madrid can that new alternate member have its location. I repeat that surely by logic and by its relationship with the Attorney General's Office, the National Court and the Supreme Court will be in Madrid, but we believe that it should not be allowed to be said to be so by law. We are in time to rectify and we should rectify. I therefore appeal to each of you when you vote today on the amendments by Convergence i Unió to ask for a separate vote at least from Amendment No 9, which allows you to be in Madrid, of course, because it proposes that you will have your seat in Eurojust or any other city in Spanish territory. We understand that this is the right thing to do. If the Spanish Patent and Trademark Office is based in Alicante, why does everything necessarily have to go through Madrid and force by law to be in the city that hosts the capital? In a composite state, the possibility should always be opened for these posts to be located in other cities and we logically call for a favourable vote on Amendment No 9. I'm done, Mr. President. There are other amendments - for example, 13 and 14 - which reflect what the Council of State is asking of us in line with the report of the Fiscal Council. Both have strongly criticized the change in model that eliminates the role that the Office of the Attorney-General has been playing in the area of communications, requests, receipt and transmission of information. We understand that this elimination is not useful, because the Attorney-General's Office must have a role in this bill. Therefore, with our amendments 13, 14 and many others, we intend to take up the role that the Office of the Attorney-General should and can play in this area with regard to the possibilities of coordination and intermediation. We do not understand, as the Fiscal Council does not understand it and as the Council of State itself has warned, that in this case it has been rectified in an inconsistent way and since Convergence i Unió we have also called here for the approval of these amendments. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u72	President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today sets out the rules necessary to implement Justice and Home Affairs Council Decision 2009/426 of 16 December 2008. This Decision strengthens Eurojust and therefore amends the 2002 Decision establishing this body of the European Union with its own legal personality with the aim of promoting and improving coordination between the judicial authorities of the Member States in order to combat the most serious forms of crime. This bill also takes advantage of the adaptation of Framework Decision 948/2009 in relation to the prevention and resolution of conflicts in the exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings. We sincerely understand that it is timely because it is the most appropriate framework for incorporating the content of the latter decision. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Eurojust's work experience, the 2009 decision to which I have just referred implements what has been achieved, which has been seen over the years and seeks to improve the competence of this body. The aim is to bring the statutes of national members closer together and to approve them in Eurojust. In this regard, the number of people who are going to work in Eurojust is increasing by creating the national delegation to this body. This national delegation shall be composed of the national member seconded by the national State, in accordance with its legal order, which also regulates the form of appointment by the Spanish State; in addition, its four-year term of office is regulated, it is stipulated that the usual place of work shall be that of Eurojust, but also that national member shall be working and assisted by an alternate and an assistant, who may have his or her place of work in Eurojust or, undoubtedly, where he or she is established. Apart from this enlargement of our representatives, the national representative and the creation of this national delegation, a national system of Eurojust coordination is established. With the creation of this national system - as has been said here by other speakers - efforts are being made to improve clearly the transmission of information and communication from national members to Eurojust with the rest of the national authorities. This national system also regulates the coordination of Eurojust's national officials for terrorism matters and of the European judicial network, as well as all national representatives of the joint teams networks for the investigation of war crimes, the recovery of archives and crimes against corruption. I would like to point out here that we think it is right, and that is why we support the amendments that have been defended in this forum and that are trying to improve the information system. The obligation is laid down that any member, either the national representative or the alternate or the assistant, may be associated with any national authority and a time limit is also set for replying, a period of 10 days or one month from the date on which the requirements giving rise to an obligation to provide information, to cooperate and to assist the national authorities are given. It is also very important - reference has been made to this by Mr Olabarria - the creation of the Emergency Coordination Card. This means that this coordination ballot will be available for 24 hours and 7 days of the week, and it will be the obligation of the national States that their representatives on this ballot be operational at all times. I would also like to point out that the 2009 Conflict of Jurisdiction Decision extends the role of the Eurojust College in dealing with repeated denials and the difficulties that States may present in the enforcement of judgments. Finally, we think it is very important that Eurojust also communicates with third States not members of the European Union or with such important institutions in the fight against organised crime and serious forms of crime, such as Europol, OLAF or Frontex, as well as that Eurojust can appoint liaison magistrates in third countries, who will have the same functions as the judges assigned by Eurojust in European Union countries. My parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill. We have been working in the Committee on Justice to table some amendments that improve the legal quality of the text, and I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur of the Group of the European People's Party for the opportunity she has given us to table some compromise amendments to improve the text. But we maintain Amendments Nos 19 and 20, which I shall briefly explain. They have a clear objective. The importance of Eurojust and the importance of the national member and now of the national delegation are vital for Spain and for the member countries, and that is why we believe that the Congress of Deputies should have a key and much more relevant role in the appointment of the national member. In this respect, we have tabled two amendments which I hope will be taken up in plenary today. The first points out that, once proposed by the person who meets the requirements for appointment as a national member before Eurojust, there is a prior appearance in the Congress of Deputies before his appointment. Proposal by the Government, after appearing in the relevant Committee of the Congress of Deputies. In addition, Amendment 20 raises something important, so it must be accepted and taken into account for all other appointments of this nature. He proposes that, if there is a majority rejection - we are not talking about three-fifths of the proposal being approved but rejected by three-fifths of the Congressional Commission - the Government withdraws that proposal and presents a new one from another person who, meeting the requirements set out in the text, has greater assent, consent and agreement of the Congress of Deputies. We believe that our amendment 20 should be taken into account: proposed by the Government, after appearing in the relevant Congressional Committee of Deputies, and, if it has a three-fifths rejection by that Commission, the Government should withdraw the proposal and proceed again to the appointment procedure. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, my group will vote in favour of this bill, because the adaptation of the two decisions to which it refers is correct and because, as a result of the parliamentary procedure in the Committee on Justice, today the draft that we are bringing here has been improved. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez Ramos. Position-fixing turn now. First of all, he has the floor, by the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela, who is resigning. Thank you very much. For the People's Group, Mrs Bonilla.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, I am speaking to set out my group's position on the law we are debating this morning, which regulates the status of Spain's national member in Eurojust, conflicts of jurisdiction, judicial networks of international cooperation and staff under the Ministry of Justice abroad. Eurojust, as you all know, was created by Decision 2002/187 with the aim of strengthening the fight against serious forms of crime. Law 16/2006 of 26 May, which currently regulates the status of Eurojust's national member and its relations with the European Union, incorporated the 2002 Decision into the Spanish legal system by creating the appropriate legal framework. Subsequently, this decision - as has already been said this morning - was amended in 2008 by Decision 2009/426, strengthening Eurojust with the intention of deepening its operations and bringing the status of the various national members as close as possible to ensure a minimum common denominator in terms of its powers and powers. What are the objectives of this law, ladies and gentlemen? As has been said here basically there are four. Firstly, to transpose the European standard cited in the Spanish legal order, incorporating developments affecting Eurojust and its relations with the competent national authorities. Secondly, the law incorporates into the Spanish legal system the provisions contained in Framework Decision 2009/948 on the prevention and resolution of conflicts, exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings, regulating a system of consultation and decision-making between the competent authorities of the countries affected by the possible conflict of jurisdiction. Thirdly, this new law is used to regulate all personnel under the Ministry of Justice abroad, a regulation that has hitherto been dispersed or non-existent and fundamental to the effectiveness of the objective. Ladies and gentlemen, the law contains an express authorization for regulatory development to determine in a concrete way the legal regime to be applied to such personnel abroad. Fourthly, this rule is used to adapt to Spanish law the provisions of Decision 2008/976 on the European Judicial Network, in order to establish a more comprehensive regulation of international cooperation networks. The law we are discussing essentially follows the model already established by the 2006 Act, which has enabled the work and image of the Spanish delegation in Eurojust to be effective and very positive today. Among the developments introduced by the standard with regard to the current Law 16/2006, we need to outline the following in a significant way. Firstly, on the composition of the Spanish delegation in Eurojust, it must be composed of at least one national member, one national alternate member and one assistant. I would like to recall that the national office is currently composed of the national member and an alternate. It is therefore necessary, given the obligation to have a third member, to create this new assistant position. The new rule also establishes the seat of the national member and the national alternate member in The Hague, although it makes it possible to decide that the assistant resides well in The Hague, or in Madrid. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a reference to the amendment by the Catalan Parliamentary Group, which proposes that, when the assistant has his place of work in Spain, it be not in Madrid but in any city in the national territory. This provision does not seem appropriate in principle, since, given that the assistant ceases to provide his services automatically at his or her post of origin, whether he or she is tried or a prosecutor, and goes on to perform his or her duties exclusively, the argument - and I say this with due respect - that he or she can continue to provide his or her services at his or her own destination, I repeat, must cease immediately. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of territory but of operation and effectiveness. The normal thing is that if you are going to act and work in collaboration with the national authorities and with the Eurojust office in The Hague, what is normal, I repeat, and operational is that you have your headquarters in Madrid, in the General Council of the Judiciary, in the Office of the Attorney General of the State or in the Ministry of Justice, I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, for issues of operationality. Finally, also within this section, the new law reformes the professionalism of the national member and the national alternate member, since the requirement for years of experience is raised from ten to fifteen years, and it is also required as a novelty to have knowledge of international judicial cooperation and English rule. It has obviously been chosen to require the same requirements from the national member and his/her alternate, since he/she is empowered to supply the national member. As far as the assistant is concerned, he is required to have 10 years of experience. Secondly, I will refer to the Staff Regulations of the Spanish delegation. The organic dependence of the national member and the other members of the Spanish delegation on the Ministry of Justice is maintained, since, as a representative of the interests of Spain, it is understood that it must be organically dependent on the Spanish Government. It is also maintained, ladies and gentlemen, that the national member will be appointed by a royal decree of the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Minister of Justice, as will the national alternate member and the assistant, all of whom are in special service. Here I would also like to refer to the content of several of the amendments tabled by different groups, in which they propose the participation of Congress and the Senate in the appointment of the national member. Ladies and gentlemen, this criterion is not shared because the law already sets out clearly the requirements for candidates to be appointed, and the law also establishes the need for a mandatory report from the General Council of the Judiciary or the Office of the Attorney-General of the State, depending on where the person comes from. It is therefore in that report that an assessment is made of the suitability and suitability of the candidate. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, we do not believe that the requirement in the amendments outlined above is necessary. As regards the duration of the term of office, on the basis of the Community standard, the duration of the appointment is increased from three to four years, so that both the national member and his deputy and assistant shall be appointed for a period of four years renewable for another period of equal duration. With regard to the causes of the termination, the decision also introduces a change: the termination of the national member must be motivated, and the law stipulates that the Minister of Justice must inform the Council of the reasons for the termination of the national member. The law extends this obligation to motivate the termination to the alternate and the assistant. Thirdly and in line with the content, I am referring to the national coordination system. A national coordination system is established with Eurojust, in which all institutions, the Office of the Prosecutor, the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice are represented, to ensure that all information to be made known to Eurojust for affecting matters within its competence is transferred to the Spanish delegation of Eurojust in the most expeditious and effective manner. This, ladies and gentlemen, is essential, because the ultimate idea of the coordination system is to establish clearly a channel of communication with Eurojust, given the plurality of national authorities transmitting information to Eurojust. The channel of transmission is maintained through the State Attorney General, without prejudice to maintaining the possibility that each judicial authority can communicate directly with the national member. The Ministry of Justice in the national coordination system, in addition to being a part of the system, provides the necessary means to ensure the functioning of the system and is responsible for the appointment of its various members. Of all the members of the national coordination system - and this figure is key, ladies and gentlemen - a national coordinator will be appointed as the ultimate coordinator of the functioning of the national system. In short, this national coordinator is the link between the Spanish Eurojust Office in The Hague and the national coordination system in Madrid. He is the interlocutor between the two and the person responsible for ensuring that relations and information flow properly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendments made by Mr Olabarria and I would like to take this opportunity to express our satisfaction at seeing him fully integrated into his duties. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the two amendments tabled by the Vaco Parliamentary Group, PNV, and which have also endorsed some speakers on autonomous police, I would like to remind Mr Olabarría that the Spanish Constitution assigns international representation to the State. I would also like to remind you of a law that you know very well, Organic Law 2/1986 on the State Security Forces and Bodies, which establishes the material distribution of competences among the different security forces and bodies. From there, Your Honor, the coordination work is carried out - as you well know - from the Secretariat of State for Security and through the security boards with the autonomous communities that have their own police regulated in their respective statutes. Therefore, Your Honor, we do not share your position or that of the spokespersons who have endorsed it, but you are going to allow me to tell you, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, that we cannot allow you to say that this is a way of exclusion or that it is undervalued, because from here, Your Honor, there is absolute respect for all these autonomous police officers who rigorously, effectively and loyally develop their role in their respective communities. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject, I would like to speak about the powers of the national member. One of the purposes of the 2009 Decision is to deepen Eurojust's operation and to bring the status of individual national members closer to the extent possible to ensure a minimum common denominator in terms of its powers and competence. In this respect, and in accepting the mandate of the Community standard, the law distinguishes between the powers which national members may exercise by themselves from those which will be exercised by national authorities, but on the proposal of the national member for being of a jurisdictional nature. I must also refer very briefly, ladies and gentlemen, to conflicts of jurisdiction. The European rule governing conflicts of jurisdiction - as you well know - is pending transposition into Spanish law and is therefore incorporated into this law. A system of prior consultation and decision-making is also regulated where there may be a possibility of a parallel investigation being carried out in several Member States. It regulates the procedure whereby such a circumstance should be brought to the attention of the authority of another country which might be aware of the same facts, as well as - and this is very important - the decision which is finally taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to talk about the staff of the Ministry of Justice abroad. They know that it is a regulation that to date was either very dispersed or non-existent and is key and fundamental to the objective that we all pursue. The Act empowers the Government to establish or abolish, by royal decree, liaison magistrates'places, legal cooperation advisers, justice advisers or any other places deemed necessary. Their appointments and terminations shall be made by the Minister of Justice, who shall be heard by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. The current Act of 2006 contains only that possibility for liaison judges. However, given the diversity of posts, the new law gives legal cover to the appointment of different figures, legal cooperation advisers, justice advisers or others. Finally, the Royal Decree will establish the legal regime applicable to all personnel under the Ministry of Justice abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the broad lines of the law that we are debating and which we are going to vote on. I would like to conclude by thanking everyone for their work, first of all for the work of the legal services of the women lawyers, who, of course, with their contributions and technical reforms have greatly improved the project. Of course, I would like to thank my two fellow lawmakers, Mr Pérez Aras and Mrs Martínez Ferro, for the work they have done in collaboration with all the speakers in the groups. I would like to thank in a very special way all the speakers of the groups for their efforts, their work and also for their commitment to something that is very important to everyone. Throughout the legislative process in Congress, we have examined in detail all the amendments and ideas that have been put forward to improve this draft, both in the Commission and here in plenary today. An amendment was accepted in the Commission, and four transactions were accepted, and the rest of them have not been accepted. We have also learned all of them and improved with their debate. I therefore believe that we can all be absolutely satisfied with today's outcome. When we began the debate on this law, we were all convinced of the legal need to transpose European legislation. We are convinced, and we were convinced, of the need to regulate networks of international judicial cooperation, of the need to regulate and improve conflicts of jurisdiction, and of the need to regulate the conditions of personnel under the Ministry of Justice abroad. Throughout the process we have been essentially in line, although it is true that there have been points that we have not shared. From respect and discrepancies, I honestly believe that we have improved this project. Ultimately, it is about improving the mechanisms for security and for combating crime and all judicial or legal matters that may affect the safety of citizens. Therefore, with the goal accomplished, with the sense of duty fulfilled, I would like to thank you for the effort and congratulate you all. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Bonilla. As announced at the beginning of the sitting, we shall proceed to vote at one and a half minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u76	We shall proceed to the votes. We begin with the motion of the Basque Group, PNV, on the interpretation, development and application of the Organic Law 8/2013, of 9 December, for the improvement of the quality of education, is being done by the Government. There is a compromise amendment with the amendment tabled by the Plural Left, and that text, which is known to you ladies and gentlemen, is the one that we are going to vote on. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 128 against, 179 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u77	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u78	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 5/2015 of 30 April 2015 of urgent measures relating to the marketing of the rights to exploit audiovisual content of the professional football competition. There are two votes cast thematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 plus 2 telematics votes, 308; 192 plus 2 telematics votes, 194; against, 1; abstentions, 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u79	It's validated. We now vote on the bill as a matter of urgency for this royal decree-law. There are two votes cast thematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 plus 2 telematics votes, 312; 43; 179 plus 2 telematics votes, 181; abstentions, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u80	It will not be treated as a bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u81	Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the third sector of social action bill submitted by La Izquierda Plural, Grupo Vasco, Catalán and Mixto, Mr Tardà. [[PNV]] There are two votes cast thematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 plus 2 telematics, 313; in favour, 37; against 183 plus 2 telematics, 185; abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u82	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u83	Request by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of this bill. There are two votes cast thematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 2 telematics votes, 313; in favour, 133; against, 178 plus 2 telematics votes, 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u84	It will not be treated as a bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u85	Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the draft law on volunteering, which have been tabled by the Left Plural Group, the Basque Group, Mr Tardà and the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. [[PNV]] There are two votes cast thematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 plus 2 telematics votes, 312; in favour, 36; against, 182 plus 2 telematics votes, 184; abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u86	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u87	Request for the plenary of the House to give notice of the deliberation and vote on this bill. There are two votes cast thematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 plus 2 telematics votes, 312; 131; 178 plus 2 telematics votes, 180; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u88	It will not be brought before the House, but will be dealt with in the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u89	Senate amendments. Draft Law on Urgent Measures in Competition Matters. Joint vote on Senate amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour 180, 129 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u90	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u91	Draft Law on the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage. We voted together on all the Senate amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 188 against 20 abstentions 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u92	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u93	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. We will vote, first, on the agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the international carriage of passengers and goods by road and its implementing protocol, done at Rabat on 3 October 2012. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 290 against, 3 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u94	It was adopted. - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN ON COOPERATION IN THE FIELD AGAINST CRIMINATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 5 NOVEMBER 2013. [[File number 110/00163]] - PROTOCOL BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND CANADA AMENDING THE CONVENTION BETWEEN SPAIN AND CANADA TO AVOID THE DOUBLE TAXATION AND PREVENTION OF THE TAX EVALUATION ON THE INCOME AND THE PATRIMONY, SIGNED ON OTTAWA ON 23 NOVEMBER 1976, DID IN MADRID ON 18 NOVEMBER 2014. [[File number 110/00164]] - PROTOCOL TO THE ESTABLISHMENT AND ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES AND THE MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE PART, AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, OF THE OTHER PART, TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE ACCESSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA TO THE EUROPEAN UNION, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 25 JUNE 2014. [[File number 110/000165]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA ON RECIPROCAL SUPPRISE OF VISED IN DIPLOMATIC PASSPORTS, DONE IN MADRID ON 3 FEBRUARY 2014. [[File number 110/000166]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u95	The other four agreements would be put to the vote jointly. Can they be approved by consent? [[Consent]] They are approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u96	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. First, draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July 1985 on the Judiciary. We started with the amendments by the Joint Group, Mrs Fernández Davila. Amendments 8, 9, 11, 14, 23 and 29. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 113 against, 178 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u97	They're rejected. Amendments 10, 12 and 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 36 against, 176 abstentions, 98.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u98	They're rejected. Mrs Fernández Davila's remaining amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 36 against, 269 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u99	They're rejected. Mr Tardà's amendments. Firstly, Amendments 64 and 65. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour 126 against 177; abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u100	They're rejected. The rest of Mr Tardà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 38 against, 176 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u101	They're rejected. Amendments by the Basque Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendments 33, 36, 45, 47 to 50, 56 and 60. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 127 against, 177 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u102	They're rejected. Amendments 37 and 59. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 37 against, 180 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u103	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Basque Parliamentary Group [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 36 against, 269 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u104	They're rejected. Amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. Firstly, Amendments 128, 129 and 131. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 12 against, 197 abstentions, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u105	They're rejected. Amendments 133 to 135. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 4 against, 300 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u106	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Parliamentary Group on Union for Progress and Democracy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 12 against, 289 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u107	They're rejected. Amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left. Amendments 67, 79 to 84, 87, 90, 97 to 104, 107, 114, 115 and 123 to 127. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 18 against, 184 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u108	They're rejected. Amendments 70, 72 to 74, 78, 92, 106 and 116. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 18 against, 272 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u109	They're rejected. Rest of amendments by the Plural Left Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 109 against, 178 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u110	They're rejected. Amendments by the Catalan Parliamentary Group Firstly, Amendments 144, 151, 155, 173, 192 and 209 to 212. [[Convergence and Union]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 124 against, 181 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u111	They're rejected. Amendments 146, 154, 199, 208, 213, 214, 218 and 221. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 31 against, 182 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u112	They're rejected. Amendment 152. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 19 against, 179 abstentions, 109.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u113	It's rejected. Amendment 169. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 23 against, 273 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u114	It's rejected. Remaining amendments by CiU. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 31 against, 273 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u115	They're rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Firstly, Amendments Nos 224 and 256. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 122 against, 177 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u116	They're rejected. Transactional amendment to Amendment 249. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 300 against, 1 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u117	It's approved. Rest of the Socialist Group's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 104 against, 178 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u118	They're rejected. We shall now vote on the opinion in the light of the technical correction distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 178 against, 132 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u119	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u120	We shall now proceed to the general vote on the draft organic law precisely because of its nature. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 2 telematics votes, 313; in favour, 178 plus 2 telematics votes, 180; against, 131; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u121	It was adopted. - DRAFT LAW ON THE STATUS OF THE NATIONAL MEMBER OF SPAIN IN EUROJUST, THE LEGAL CONFLICT, THE JUDICIAL NETWORKS OF INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AND THE PERSON DEPENDENT OF THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE OUTSIDE. [[File number 121/000135]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u122	Draft law regulating the status of Spain's national member in Eurojust, conflicts of jurisdiction, judicial networks of international cooperation and personnel under the Ministry of Justice abroad. We are voting first of all on the amendments tabled by the Basque Group as a whole. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 132 against, 176 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u123	They're rejected. UPyD amendments. Firstly, Amendment No 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 27 against, 267 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u124	It's rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 118 against, 177 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u125	They're rejected. Joint vote on the amendments tabled by the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 127 against 177 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u126	They're rejected. In addition, the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group have been voted on in a bloc vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour 129 against 175 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u127	They're rejected. Vote on the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour 296 against 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-05-14-CD150514.u128	It was adopted. The meeting rose. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
