ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don José María Benegas, I ask Dona Loly de Juan de Miguel if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u2	I promise to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u3	In place of Don José Máximo López Vilaboa, I ask Mónica Raquel Pérez Serna if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u4	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u5	Doña Loly de Juan de Miguel and dona Mónica Raquel Pérez Serna have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate on the opinion of the State General Budgets Bill for 2016, I would like to announce to you the presence in the rostrum of a delegation of Members of the Uruguayan House, to which we extend our warmest welcome. [[Applauds]] I would also like to announce that the first vote will be tomorrow at 8 a.m. on Tuesday. We will continue the debate on Wednesday and, at the end of the debate, we will have the last vote on the budget opinion. Let us begin the debate. Firstly, the debate on sections 12, Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, and 34, Financial relations with the European Union. For the presentation of the sections, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u7	Mr President, let me first say hello to the representatives of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, to which we have so many ties. Secondly, I would like to give a warning to navigators. I warn your ladies and gentlemen, and I suppose I give you a joy, that I will have to be shorter than other times, because I have to accompany your majesty the kings on the journey to the United States. Having made these two preliminary warnings, I will appear to outline the budgets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, and for this presentation, following the rule and tradition laid down in previous years, I will discuss the main figures, the breakdown of these figures into expenditure chapters and, to close, the breakdown by destination of available resources by area of action. The draft budget - as you all know - amounts to EUR 1,366.67 million, of which EUR 1,116.18 million corresponds to the non-financial budget and EUR 250.4 million to the financial budget. Compared to the initial budget for the previous year, 2015, this represents an absolute increase of €72.87 million, which represents 5.63 in percentage terms. Section 12, Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, and 34, Financial Relations with the European Union I now turn to the second part of my statement, figures and changes by expenditure chapters, beginning with staff costs, chapter 1. The staff costs of Chapter 1 amount to EUR 291.7 million, which will be increased by an additional EUR 15.43 million to cover the 1 % increase in salaries and the recovery of the amount of the 2012 extra payment outstanding. Without taking this last amount into account, the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation is increased by EUR 1.9 million compared to 2015; an increase mainly justified by the higher costs of foreign labour contracts quantified in foreign currency. On the other hand, the budget bill that we are now discussing raises - and that is a great news for the foreign service - up to one hundred per cent of the staff's replacement rate at the service of foreign action. It therefore foresees a new call for oppositions in 2016 that will allow 20 diplomats to be re-entered. This is an absolutely necessary measure not only to counter retirement losses, but also to attend to the progressive incorporation of diplomatic personnel into the European External Action Service, where 36 Spanish diplomats are already working. Chapter 2 - as your ladies and gentlemen know better than I do - is the cost of goods and services. In current expenditure on goods and services, Chapter 2, the department will have EUR 117.9 million, which means a reduction of EUR 12.7 million - in percentage terms, 9.77 % - due to the centralisation of certain service contracts. In line with the principle of efficiency of management, which is one of the cardinal principles of external action, when comparing expenditure between 2012 and 2014 with 2011, the department has achieved a cumulative savings in current expenditure of more than €65 million. The main savings, up to this figure, have occurred under the following headings: leases, essentially buildings, EUR 10 million; communications, EUR 12 million; transport, EUR 8.5 million; protocol and representative expenditure, EUR 3.7 million; indemnities for service almost EUR 5 million. This includes the impact of the suspension of the entitlement to the annual holiday allowance in Spain of foreign staff and their families, a reduction that is a displeasure for the foreign service and of course for me, who run that department. The financial expenses, chapter 3, have a very small - irrelevant - endowment of 181,930 euros, which increases by only 15,400 euros regarding 2015, as a result of the payment in dollars of the interest of the leasing of our consulate in Porto Alegre, which will end in 2019. Current transfers, chapter 4, is the next major item in which the Ministry's budget is broken down. It will have a budget of 674.7 million euros, 83.8 more than in 2015. In percentage terms, this represents an increase of 14.19%. The most significant items in this chapter, I repeat, current transfers, are also those experiencing the greatest growth. Mandatory contributions to international agencies and peacekeeping operations are increased by EUR 64 million, to a total of EUR 392.7 million in this budget. The second item to which I would like to refer and pay particular attention is the transfer to the International Cooperation Agency. The transfer for current expenses, not including investment transfers, is increased by EUR 8.66 million, amounting to a total of EUR 178.2 million, excluding the item from the collection of income tax on natural persons. The latter remains at almost EUR 25 million, which is the minimum amount guaranteed by the Government, which will be increased in 2016 to the extent that the actual collection of 0.7 % for other social interest purposes exceeds this minimum. In 2015, this credit extension exceeded €30 million. The transfer to the Cervantes Institute, another of the crown's jewels, is significantly increased by 11.1 million euros, at 62.2 million. The investment chapter remains at very modest levels, at the same level as in 2015, not reaching EUR 17 million. Capital transfers, Chapter 6, are also almost invariable, with a budget of only 14.08 million, with a slight decrease of 117,000 euros in the transfer to the Cervantes Institute by the concept, I repeat, of capital transfers. Financial assets remain unchanged at EUR 250.4 million. Disaggregated these expenditure chapters, I would like to refer to the allocation of resources that the Ministry of Finance has made available to us, distinguishing them by areas of action. First line, General Service. This area, which covers the activities and operating costs of central services, is allocated EUR 66.4 million, i.e. only 4.86% of the department's total budget. In this area - and I say this with satisfaction - the actions for the recovery of the building of the square of the Marquis of Salamanca as the seat of the ministry continue, allowing us to reunify our services and eliminate very, very considerable expenses in terms of rents. In this sense, prepared and approved already the draft work, is previewed the beginning of the same year, 2015, with which it is maintained 2017 as the date previewed for its completion and official inauguration. The second major element is diplomatic and consular action, which, as your ladies and gentlemen know - especially those following the meetings of the Foreign Committee - is one of the two major areas of action of the Ministry alongside international cooperation. Diplomatic and consular action is allocated 55.2% of our budget, which will have 754.3 million euros in 2016, 8% more than in 2015. Of this total of 754 million - I repeat - 21.25 million will be allocated to diplomatic action before the European Union. We will thus have the following means and will carry out the following actions: an external network that currently has 118 embassies, 90 consular offices and 10 permanent representations, 9 of them to various international organizations and to the European Union. As you know, 2015 has been the first year of implementation of the Act on Action and Foreign Service, which has introduced new tools for planning and monitoring foreign policy, including the principle of management efficiency, to which I referred earlier. The year 2016, for which this budget is allocated, will be the year of the consolidation of this model. Thus, to date, ten of the Spanish Autonomous Communities have already signed cooperation protocols with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation to integrate their personnel abroad into the premises of the network of representations that Spain has outside our borders. Similarly, where there is no budgetary justification, in terms of cost, for opening up a representation, we will be present through agreements with the European Union itself, placing our diplomatic staff in their delegations. This is already the case in the Gambia, South Sudan, Azerbaijan, Burma, Fiji and Yemen, although the latter is currently closed for security reasons. With regard to the number of staff on this external network, we have 4,683 men and women, of whom 1,221 are civil servants and 3,462 are workers. 254.7 million will be allocated to the payment of these personnel, accounting for 33.8% of the resources available for diplomatic and consular action. The second item, to which I would like to make a brief reference, concerns current expenditure on goods and services. We will count on 88.1 million to cover the current costs of goods and services of our external representations and this means a decrease compared to 2015 of almost 10 million euros, 9.6 million to be exact, due to the centralization of the telecommunications service abroad. In investments we will have a very modest amount, 13 million euros, similar amount that we have arranged in this exercise, and will be destined mainly to the works of the embassies of Rabat, Havana, Bangkok and Asunción, and to the investments essential in new technologies for our representations, following the path of digital diplomacy to which we approved the Law of Foreign Action. In the consular area - extraordinarily important - the figure for the protection of Spaniards abroad is maintained, EUR 2.4 million. During 2014, consular offices granted aid to 78 welfare institutions, as well as another 8,076 aid to compatriots serving sentences in a foreign prison, 13% more than in 2013. In addition, consular emergencies will continue to be addressed, as has been done this year with the evacuation carried out following the earthquake in Nepal. Our consular offices - which is another aspect I would like to highlight - will continue to pay regular attention to civil registration, public notarial faith, documentation of nationals and issuance of visas, which are an important source of funding for the State. Precisely: in 2013, the last year of which we have closed figures, the consular collection experienced an increase of 8 million euros compared to the previous year, 2012, and in 2014 it has risen another 2 million euros, coming to represent 104 million euros that are entered in the Public Treasury; I repeat, they are entered in the Public Treasury. In the first half of this year EUR 50 million has already been obtained. On the other hand, as I already informed last year, the ministry has adopted in 2015 two important measures of administrative rationalization in the representations of Spain abroad that will have continuity in 2016. Firstly, in line with what the Entrepreneurs Act establishes, before the end of the year all our representations abroad - with the exception of some where at the moment it is inviable, such as Baghdad, Tripoli or Damascus - will be able to process the telematic allocation of the NIF, thus facilitating the relations of both natural and legal persons residing abroad with the Tax Agency. Secondly - second novelty - thanks to the collaboration between the department I run and the ministries of Justice and Finance, the use of the Corinth CES platform, to speed up communications between the consular civil registers and the Directorate-General for Registry and Notary, will be a reality in all our consular offices before the end of the following year. In the field of bilateral diplomacy - and I change the third - we will continue to pay special attention to the three traditional axes of Spanish foreign policy, specified, defined and explained both in the Foreign Action Act and in the external action strategy: the Atlantic axis, cooperation with the European Union and the Mediterranean, without forgetting those two areas in which Spain is increasingly present, East and Central Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. As far as multilateral action is concerned, 2016 will be the second year of our membership in the United Nations Security Council as a non-permanent member. In this last stage we will remain faithful to our strategic objectives, which I had the opportunity to present and discuss in this House: firstly, to project Spain's presence and influence in the processes of defining the peace and security of the main international organizations, adapting them to the new challenges; secondly, to enhance the action of the international departments in line with the political and economic priorities and interests of our homeland. It is our intention that the economic recovery in our country be reflected in the strengthening of some of our commitments to international bodies. In this regard, our contribution has been increased to human rights organizations, including specific allocations for the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance and the International Commission against the Death Penalty. Through amendment 4248, a specific allocation of EUR 100,000 has been incorporated for activities to be carried out on the occasion of our membership in the United Nations Security Council, as well as another increase of EUR 3.4 million for the provision of voluntary political contributions and for the best provision to the Union for the Mediterranean and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. With regard to diplomatic action in the economic sphere, economic diplomacy, we will maintain our support for the internationalization of our defence, for the defence of Spain's interests in multicultural, economic and commercial forums and for the settlement of economic and commercial disputes, always in collaboration with the other ministries and initiatives that carry out public diplomacy. In my opinion, action in this area is of vital importance, since at the end of this year exports accounted for 32% of our domestic product, the second best in the European Union, only behind Germany, with an annual expansion rate of 4.7%. You will not be surprised to say that in this area of economic diplomacy the Spanish brand project continues to have an absolute priority. As your ladies and gentlemen know, this project aims to improve our perceptions of our country and thereby increase our capacity for influence. In the field of public diplomacy, foreign policy will continue to support our network of houses, for which EUR 6.3 million is earmarked in this draft budget. The next major chapter is international cooperation. The international cooperation carried out by this ministry has two aspects: cooperation for development, on the one hand, and cultural promotion and dissemination abroad, on the other. For international cooperation we will have EUR 545.9 million, 40% of the department's budget, of which 214.3 million will be transferred to the Spanish Agency for Cooperation and 65.2 million to the Cervantes Institute. Compared to the 2015 budget, which is about to close, this represents an increase of 19.64 million in absolute terms, i.e. 3.74%, distributed under the following headings: an increase in the transfer to the agency of 8.66 million euros and an increase in the transfer to Cervantes of 10.98 million euros. For its part, the Fund for the Promotion of Development, Fonprode, will have a budget of up to 235 million euros and a limit for the approval of operations by the Council of Ministers of 375 million euros for repayable operations, for repayable loans. With regard to the Water and Sanitation Cooperation Fund, in 2016 we will have EUR 15 million to finance reimbursable operations and operations necessary to meet the costs arising from the management of the fund and a limit for the approval of operations by the Council of Ministers of another EUR 29 million. I will make a brief point about the Agency for Cooperation and the Cervantes Institute, treating them separately. The Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation will have - I said earlier - EUR 252.8 million. This remains at the same levels as in 2015, as the decrease of EUR 1.3 million is due to the already mentioned centralisation of service contracts. It is worth highlighting here the continuity of the operations of the so-called "delegated cooperation", which involves obtaining resources from the European Commission. Without prejudice to the fact that other such operations may be approved during this year, those already approved at this time will entail additional revenue for the agency of EUR 22.2 million. I would like to make special mention of the financing of NGOs, especially through the form of multi-annual agreements, which ensure the predictability and impact of aid. In 2016, approximately EUR 51 million will be allocated to the financing of non-governmental organizations, including collective insurance of co-operators. However, this budget will be increased during the financial year when the contributions corresponding to the final settlement of the 2014 income tax year are received, as I have had occasion to point out at the beginning of my intervention. In another matter, the ministry will continue to support foundations that work closely and effectively with Spanish cooperation, such as the Carolina Foundation and the International and Ibero-American Foundation for Administration and Public Policy, the Fiiapp. With regard to humanitarian aid, including food aid, the initial budget speaks of EUR 18.8 million, without prejudice to the fact that in the event of the need for additional funds - more than likely, the mechanisms to meet it, as happened in previous years and specifically in the Ebola crisis, are being arranged. I turn to the Cervantes Institute, the main executor of the other side of our international cooperation, the promotion and cultural dissemination of Spanish languages and cultures, of all. The institute is present in ninety cities of forty countries, sixty-four full centres, twelve Cervantes classrooms and thirteen extensions. For 2016, Cervantes will have a budget of 115.4 million euros, which means an increase of half a million euros. There is also an increase in the forecast of revenues for activities carried out, the degree of self-financing, and it is necessary to highlight the new projects that will be undertaken in 2016. On the one hand, the management of the language and cultural integration tests required for the acquisition of Spanish nationality under Law 19/2015 on the granting of nationality to Sephardics originating in Spain. On the other hand, in the implementation of the International System for the Evaluation of the Spanish Language, Siele, presented in Mexico by his majesty the kings, and a few days ago at the headquarters of the institute. However, the income from disposal of buildings with which the Cervantes Institute has been carrying out these exercises disappears, as it seems that the institute has completed the process of rationalizing infrastructure. I finish with an important note. The Institute's self-financing remains high and already exceeds 43 %. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we again present budgets in an extremely complicated budgetary situation, budgets which slightly increase the forecasts for 2015. It is obvious, as any of my colleagues in charge of any department would say, that any of them and I, of course, would have liked to have had much more resources than I have at my disposal. But this is what there is and with what there is we will try to do the best we can. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. In defence of amendments, Mr Salvador has the floor first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u9	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, I begin by apologizing to you because, as you know, the members of the Joint Group share the time, and in each of the sections where we speak we have to defend all the amendments that we have tabled to the budgets and, therefore, I am not going to confine myself to your ministry. Allow me at least two comments that do have to do with your ministry, one on Democratic support and the other on the serious refugee crisis in Syria. I would like to denounce once again publicly the treatment of men and women in Cuba; they fight for freedom, they fight for respect for human rights, the defence of the rule of law and democracy, and in particular I would like to denounce in this rostrum once again the treatment and persecution to which the Castro regime has subjected the movement of white women, courageous women, genuine heroes of freedom in Cuba and an example of courage and commitment to freedom. Secondly, I would also like to draw your attention and yours, ladies and gentlemen, to the condemnation made by the Government of Venezuela that we have known these days to silence one of the most important voices of Venezuelan dissent, with the sole intention of eliminating Leopoldo López from political life. [[Applauds]] I ask you or suggest, Minister, that in the name of the freedom that is breathed in this house, of the dignity of our democratic system, you join in the efforts and initiatives that can be put in place to pressure the Government of Venezuela and to demand the immediate release of Leopoldo López. And on any of the fronts you can participate in, you will obviously count on our full support. With regard to the refugee crisis, I will do a single reflection. It is obvious that this is a very complicated, very complex and difficult-to-responde issue; I think the worst thing we could believe is that it can be solved by cracks of demagogy and opportunism, playing irresponsibly with people's lives and pain, and we will be wrong, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not act together, all the administrations and all the social entities together. That is why I believe that the amendment, the compromise that we arrived at last week and which we unanimously approved in the Committee on Budgets to extend the 53 million to 200 to cover and welcome refugees, is timely because I believe that we must prepare for more dramas such as the one we are experiencing today, so what I am asking or suggesting is that you talk, report, talk with other groups, with social actors, with NGOs, with the Catholic Church, in short, with all those who are concerned about helping, and coordinate the answers with all of them with maximum transparency. It is obvious - I have also told you in another case - that you have our full cooperation and I am sure that you will also have the willingness of all public, private and social organizations that are prepared to assume their responsibility in a spirit of generosity and solidarity. As far as the UPN amendments are concerned, the battery that we have presented responds to several principles, values or objectives, one of them important - it has always been in this legislature - has been the defence of life. We have tabled two amendments signed jointly with the People's Party, which are part of a commitment by my party and also personal. What are you trying to do? One thing that is not simple, is to reduce the scandalous number of abortions in Spain, to promote birth, to defend motherhood, to prevent unwanted pregnancies, to denounce the use of abortion as another contraceptive; in short, to help, to raise awareness or to face this which some have called the demographic winter. And how do we intend to help reverse this figure and this reality? Today, even if it is a modest initiative, with information campaigns of social awareness and training in the face of a problem that is there and that of course we want to eliminate or at least reduce. I say it very harshly: in Spain in 2013, which is the last year of which there are figures, 400,000 boys and girls were born and 100,000 boys and girls were not born, as much boys and girls as any of us at the time, and we would certainly like to reverse that situation and change it. That is why I want to thank the People's Party for accepting the challenge of changing this state of affairs that we do not think is very presentable for a society that lives in something we call the welfare state. There is another battery of amendments that have to do with the impetus of the progress and modernity of the Navarra Foral Community, those relating to innovation and business development and that have to do with the expansion of the financing of the National Renewable Energy Centre. There is an amendment with which we call for the extension of funding, since the State is a co-sponsor of that foundation, and in the end, although it has not been accepted, a similar one has been accepted both in content and in funding from the People's Party, which we thank and welcome. There are a number of other amendments relating to infrastructure. We have tabled amendments to vertebrate Navarra with the rest, to speed up the procedures of the Pamplona-Jaca motorway, as it is finished its Navarra section but there are some of the subtrams of Aragon that would need greater agility, and also another to speed up the connection of the Navarra bank with the Medinaceli motorway through the AP-15. We are aware that the State will promote some of the most important investments, such as the high-speed train, the regrowth of the Yesa reservoir, the continuation of the works of the swamp binomial of Itoiz-Canal de Navarra. We know that for today that is not the problem so that these works can be completed correctly. We do have many doubts that so that they can be completed in time and form the Government of Navarre does what it must do. It is true that it has agreements with some political groups that have traditionally opposed any kind of public work or infrastructure that Navarra would like to run with the rest for thirty years. We will therefore be controlling not only the Government here in Madrid, but also the Government of Navarre in its involvement in the promotion of these important infrastructures. In conclusion, Mr President, I shall refer to two final amendments. One has to do with the excellence in the world of culture, which lies in section 18, by which we would like to make participative the State of a cultural infrastructure of national and international projection of the first magnitude as is the new Museum of Art of the University of Navarre, inaugurated this year by the kings and which has been visited by more than 70,000 people. It is a work by the prestigious Navarro architect Rafael Moneo, who aims to be a center of excellence, teaching, innovation and dissemination of culture. It contains the largest photographic legacy in our country and one of its most important private art collections. That is why we have proposed that this amendment be incorporated in section 18. Finally, in Amendment 4148, which concerns certain officials of the educational bodies of the Foral Community of Navarre, we call for the inclusion of a new provision additional to the text of the draft law which resolves some important problems of inequality that occur with this group due to the disparity of social security schemes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all these contributions or improvements that we propose for these budgets through our amendments seem useful, realistic, pragmatic and a future bet for our community. They respond to demands, concerns and ambitions, which are nothing else to be desired and hope that with these changes we will continue to improve the lives of the Spaniards and, especially, for my party, the lives of all the shipwrecks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mrs Lozano has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u11	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our group has tabled a total amendment to this section, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not only because of some specific issues in which I am not going to stop, obviously, with the profusion that the minister has made, but above all because of an absolute discrepancy and amazement that it produces what this budget reveals with regard to the work of your ministry and the place where you place our country in the international sphere. Minister, for four years you have systematically cut the budget for development cooperation by relying on the general cuts, the adjustments to be made, the demands coming from Brussels and the demands imposed by the rescue. This brutal cut has come to account for 80% of the resources - or more in some programmes - devoted to development cooperation. In this budget for the year 2016, the total received by his ministry will be 73 million euros more. However, this increase has no impact on cooperation funds. In this way, you will allocate EUR 510 million to cooperation, compared to EUR 679 million in the first budget of the start of the legislature. In total, next year we will devote just 0.2% of gross national income. That, of what is revealing? It was not a short-term cut, it was not a Brussels demand, it was not even a demand from Minister Montoro, in which so many policies have been delegated. The impression that we get when we read this budget is that this change was structural, that this is a political decision, a clear political line that now, at this start-up in the budgets, we see much more clearly. What we see clearly - and I regret to have to tell you in these terms - is that you do not believe in cooperation policies, do not believe even though, as we are seeing in this brutal refugee crisis in Europe, the President of the Government insists every time that problems have to be solved in the countries of origin. What a better way to tackle problems in countries of origin than to devote decent and dignified funds to international cooperation! In addition, this puts our country in a once again erratic position on foreign policy because that policy has to be based on something that is consistent over time and that is sustained, so it seems to us that this change - I insist, structural and not cyclical in cooperation policies - reduces your ministerial action to what you call economic diplomacy and which is rather business diplomacy or commercial diplomacy, whose last example has been the journey that you and two other ministers have made to the Islamic Republic of Iran just a few days ago. We know that the Government can and must help the internationalization of companies because it is positive for them as well as for the Spanish economy, but when a country defines its foreign policy it cannot do so just thinking about what it will get from the rest of the world - in this case, a position, let us say advantageous, when sanctions are lifted to Iran after the signing of the nuclear agreement - but also thinking about what we are going to contribute to the rest of the countries. As you said to your Iranian colleague, what we can provide - and I quote textually - is that you are the best ambassador that Iran can have in New York and Brussels. You have gone a long way to go to Iran and took too long on other occasions, for example, to go to Venezuela when political protests claimed lives on the streets of Caracas. I would like to remind you that, following an initiative by my parliamentary group, we have managed to commit the two major groups in this House to the defence of Venezuelan democrats. We believe that the enthusiasm that the nuclear agreement produces with Iran - and that of course we share - cannot lead us to erratic policies and cannot lead us to make statements such as that you are the ambassador of the Ayatollah regime. You cannot be the ambassador of a regime that alone in the first half of this year has executed 700 people, according to human rights organizations; a regime that hangs ordinary prisoners and political prisoners on the street, hangs them on the streets, a regime that increasingly imposes restrictions on women's freedom, which imposes severe physical punishment if they do not comply with certain rules regarding their clothing. We think that on any trip of the Foreign Minister, he will be accompanied by great entrepreneurs or not - something that, I insist, in itself we do not censor - you have to defend above all the Spanish reputation and you have to put on the table the human rights agenda always. Our country has a reputation as a defender of women's rights, a reputation as a donor of cooperation funds. Therefore, this amendment of the whole, Minister, is not just an amendment to the budget of your ministry, but an amendment of the whole to your action and, in particular, an amendment to our country's legitimate tyrannical and anti-democratic regimes. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. The Plural Left Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Our parliamentary group is convinced that the best thing that can happen to Spanish foreign policy is for the People's Party to move to opposition. That's gonna help us a lot. It will help us because after four years we have already tried it and it does not work, Minister. Moreover, when we discuss the General Budgets of the State and specifically those affecting that ministry, we reinforce precisely that trend. This legislature will be remembered in various ways; but one way to remember it is that it is a legislature with laws but without money, and the laws without money you, Minister, know that they are a source of frustration. It is true, we have seen how, over the course of the legislature, practically for four years - this year's recovery is pure make-up - it was cut into three fundamental aspects: the external action of the State, the Cervantes Institute and the cooperation and development aid programmes. And at this rate, Minister, you will have to look for publicity to put it on your shirt in order to attend some international events. I'm telling you about economic diplomacy. Economic diplomacy can never replace the action of the State. The action of the State must be independent of that economic diplomacy and, if not, in the end one becomes a correveidile of some economic interests. We are convinced - of course you too - that the 733 million we are going to devote to the action of the State abroad are insufficient; that the skeleton that must bear the action of Spain abroad are, first of all, its 118 embassies and consulates. Because, moreover, we are faced with a phenomenon of men and women in this country who, due to the circumstances of the economic policies that have been developing in recent years, have had to go to work and have had to go to live outside Spain and require more than ever that these embassies and consulates operate at full performance. That heading is therefore absolutely insufficient. With regard to the Cervantes Institute, which is one of our crown jewels, it is shaking; shaking because it cannot yet recover from the accumulated cuts of recent years and, therefore, cultural diplomacy, which is one of the phrases used by the People's Party to express its foreign action, Minister, needs support, needs money, not just good words, as the President reminded us. I repeat, the budget is absolutely insufficient because it is the fourth year that cuts are accumulated in it and it already rains on wet. And it is true that on cooperation issues we are also wrong in both the Spanish Agency for Cooperation and the Development Promotion Fund or the Water and Sanitation Cooperation Fund. They're insufficient departures. I will refer to one last item before giving the floor to my colleague who is going to table and defend some specific amendments. The practical freezing of cooperation funds is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow because you know, Minister, that the migratory wave does not stop at the borders by raising fences and putting more thorn wires. The migration wave stops at its origin by investing in peace, but peace before the war, not after the war as in Libya or Syria, peace before the war; investing in development; investing in democracy. And our country, at the moment, is not up to the level of cooperation in its role as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Mr. Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, by focusing more on specific amendments based on the speech made by my colleague, I would suggest that our amendments are aimed primarily at increasing development aid and cooperation. As my colleague Mr Nuet said, the continued cuts in official development aid that have been experienced in recent years are causing the dismantling of Spanish cooperation policy. In this regard, the development cooperation programme is directly affected as it decreases in its allocation by almost 3 % compared to last year and by 25 % compared to 2012. We are proposing amendments to provide EUR 400 million because aid to cooperation in dealing with humanitarian crises is essential, and aid to non-governmental organizations to strengthen the role they are playing in humanitarian assistance in terms of efficiency and immediacy. That is why it is important to work together. In addition, the Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation, Aecid, is one of the main victims and accumulates a fall of more than EUR 600 million in the period of the legislature, which means 72 % less budget than planned in 2011. I would like to highlight a couple of amendments, particularly one in which we are asking for EUR 179 million to meet the commitments of 0.7% made by the Member States of the European Union and which our country is not meeting with regard to Europe at fifteen. We believe that such contributions would be an effective way of implementing a cooperation policy that should be adequately budgeted in line with the challenges posed by the fourth master plan and that should increase the human and technical capacities acquired in recent years in development cooperation. The crises we experience at the international level force us to have those policies and budgetary increases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Pérez Moya. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d'Unió, first of all, Mr Picó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. The Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d'Unió has tabled a return amendment to this section, Minister, and one of the reasons is because we are in a legislature in which the foreign sector has been reformed through different laws, in particular with the adoption of the Foreign Service Act, but we do not see in the General Budgets of the State that in its section no changes are made in these budget allocations to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, in accordance with these amendments to the legal framework. [[The lady]] You said, Minister, that the main novelty we see in the General Budgets of the State in your ministry is the increase in the resources allocated to the Cervantes Institute. You said that you are experiencing a 20% increase, up to EUR 65 million, in the contributions received. On the other hand, Minister, the Government's commitment to increase budget allocations for international development cooperation in line with the pace of economic recovery is not being met. After a reduction, I think I should recall, by more than 70%, that I must say that it has already started with the previous government but that it has also deepened with its own, the budget allocations are not increasing in line with that commitment; its commitment and commitment on the basis of mandates adopted in the International Development Cooperation Commission of this House. Therefore, in addition to being very slight the increase we find in this project, it concentrates on the budget of the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness to satisfy obligatory contributions to international organizations. We must also bear in mind that we are talking about the year 2016. You know that next week in New York the agenda for the new sustainable development goals will be adopted by the United Nations General Assembly after 2015, and we believe that it would have been desirable for budgets to reflect a commitment determined by public policies of international cooperation, by the universalization of that agenda, which must be universal, and by the fulfilment of its objectives. Although there is an increase in the Ministry's allocation to international cooperation, the transfers to Aecide to which you referred are minimally increased. And at a time, as you know well, especially complicated, humanitarian aid is allocated EUR 18 million, without prejudice - you say - to the provision of instruments to extend the budget allocation in the future, as it is expected to happen, as you said. If you think it is foreseeable that this will happen, reflect it already in the budgets, Minister, and do not dedicate only EUR 18 million. We have therefore tabled amendments calling for greater allocations for humanitarian aid and for the territorialization of 0.7 of the IRPF for autonomous communities, in accordance with the repeated rulings of the Constitutional Court and also of the Supreme Court. Minister, you have ended up literally saying that this is what there is. I don't think it's enough for him to come here and tell us this. I see him as very conformist, and I don't like him. Thank you very much, Minister, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u18	Thank you, Mr. Picó. For the same group, Mr Guillaumes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u19	Thank you, President. This is the legislature in which the Foreign Service Act has been passed and in which it should have been ordered to do so. They filled the mouth of the commitment to rationalize and act on the map of embassies and consulates, but, truth be told, little, Minister. They very much like to talk about the seven representations of the Generalitat abroad - seven -; perhaps it is time to study and evaluate how taxpayers' money is spent on foreign service. You spoke - we understand that correctly - of some embassies that were perhaps unnecessary in certain countries and of increasing others in the emerging countries of Asia, of moderately intensifying the presence in the emerging countries, also in the Caucasus. Minister, little, very little or nothing. It should also talk - it is not anecdotal, but significant, but we are not going to focus on it - about the proliferation of commercial and military aggregates in rather picturesque places, to put it elegantly. It is a bit like the style of the cesantías of Mariano José de Larra, from when the regime of the Canovist turn, that of: Daddy very happy will make me governor, etc. It seems that some of these quitters have found some comfortable corner in some embassies where they don't make much sense. Therefore, Minister, I would ask you for a cost-benefit analysis of the foreign service. I cannot end without referring to your attitude towards the Catalan process. If I may - it is a harsh phrase and I will comment on it quickly - it is a Ribbentrop-Torquemada policy. It's too much for the...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u20	Mr Guillaumes, I understand that you want to use this time for other things, but I remind you that we are talking about the budgets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; neither are we talking about Catalonia nor are we talking about the statements of the Minister that have nothing to do with the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I beg you to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u21	I promise you'll find the relationship if you give me 20 seconds. Ribbentrop by pressure, diplomacy of pressure; Torquemada by certain prohibitions...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u22	Mr. Guillaumes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u23	Yeah, yeah, you give me 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u24	No, no, not 20 seconds, not an hour and a half. That's not the point!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u25	It is so that you can see that this is the issue, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u26	Return to the subject we are talking about, which is the General Budgets of the State, Ministry of Foreign Affairs section.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u27	President, please, a sentence; pressure to present a book.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u28	Mr. Guillaumes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u29	This makes no sense - and now you will see it, President - you understand that diplomacy has very expensive prices. We think...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u30	Mr. Guillaumes, your time is up. Your time's up. What do you want me to do to him!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u31	That's how we're going and that's how we're going to keep going.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u32	Thank you, Mr. Guillaumes. We now turn to the Socialist Group, Mrs Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, one more year we are obliged to tell you that these are not budgets for a country like Spain, from the point of view of the Socialist Group. For the many efforts you make, Minister, to find some slight increases - which must be acknowledged - in some parts, they are clearly insufficient to carry out a solid foreign policy with weight, but with real weight in the international arena. You may not remember that, but in the first year of the current legislature you literally told us, Minister, that you were presenting budgets of war forced by the economic situation. Well, despite his Government's efforts to talk about an economic improvement, which is actually taking place, I see that such an improvement is not only reflected in the drafting of section 12. As far as foreign policy and development cooperation are concerned, the General Budgets of the State for 2016 - the Minister pointed out - confirm a slight increase, which means moving from EUR 1,474 million in 2016 to EUR 1,419 million in 2015, i.e. an increase of 3.7% and only EUR 52 million in absolute terms. In spite of this, what reflects is the trend towards minimum budgets that show the lack of ambition and the presence of our foreign policy in this Parliament. It is particularly significant, Minister, that the cut in development cooperation has been sustained over the past four years. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgets are a true reflection of what has happened in this Parliament: a weakening of our external presence; a loss of weight in multilateral agencies, with the exception of our presence in the United Nations Security Council; but there is also a lack of a strategic definition, despite the fact that we have adopted the external action strategy and, of course, a dismantling of development cooperation. In the expenditure programmes there is only an increase in 142.A, action of the State abroad, which has 733 million euros and which represents an increase of 8.4% compared to 2015. But there is a decrease in programme 141.M, Directorate and General Foreign Affairs Services, with 64 million euros in 2016 compared to 67 of 2015. It is worth noting that, despite the humanitarian emergency situation, there is no increase in the amount of overseas assistance to asylum-seekers in Spain, which amounts to EUR 17,890, or to the protection of Spaniards abroad, to which EUR 2,352 million is allocated. The only specific budget line that exists has been approved by an amendment by the People's Party in the Commission for our action in the United Nations Security Council, which amounts to EUR 100,000, and despite the adoption of the external action strategy there is no direct translation of the external action strategy into the budgetary instrument, and many of the indicators set out in the external action programme do not exactly correspond to that strategy. On the other hand, although it has been announced, there has also been no plan to withdraw embassies and consulates to meet the new challenges of foreign policy and the entry into operation of the European foreign service. Mr Minister, the budgets fundamentally question the objectives of our foreign policy as a State policy, adapted to our country's interests and our obligations arising from our presence in multilateral bodies and the globalizing challenges of security and cooperation, because, I repeat, Minister, we consider them clearly insufficient. They are insufficient budgets to meet Spain's commitments and, above all, to deal with the very convulsive and complex situation of the present day. I told him at the beginning of my speech: the budget is far below the ambition that we should show as a country for our size, for our population, but also for our history and for our position at the international concert. We should devote more material and human resources to foreign policy. With regard to development cooperation, the Government's policy continued its almost obsessive desire for austerity, which would not be bad if it were not because in cooperation this resulted in cuts and dismantling. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation manages only 33.94 per cent of official development assistance, which accounts for 0.21 per cent of national income, which is far below what other countries in our environment do, while maintaining the commitment of official development assistance. The three primary instruments for managing cooperation, the Fonprode, the Aecid and the Debt Act, remain irrelevant to the Government. After the reform of the Fonprode, without consensus and through the back door, his death is more than evident. The fund is again allocated the same amount as in 2015, which means that 21% of official development assistance is going to go to operations of a repayable nature, which demonstrates the trend towards the financing of the Spanish cooperation policy launched in 2011. On the other hand, incomprehensiblely, the heading for the 143.A programme, of development cooperation, is again reduced to 515 million in 2016 compared to 516 of 2015, which were already few. This only confirms the lack of political will on the part of the current Government to regain development cooperation. With regard to the Spanish Agency for International Cooperation, in the 143.A cooperation programme, it has 249 million euros, the lowest figure recorded so far; far from the 869 million euros allocated to this subject in 2011. Minister, since 2011 the budget of Aecide has decreased by 71.30%, i.e. more than EUR 628 million, and that of the Secretariat of State for International Cooperation and for Ibero-America has decreased by 75.84 %, more than EUR 836 million. On the other hand, in the area of security and food aid, we have moved from a budget of EUR 29 million in 2011 to EUR 2 million.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u34	Mrs. Jiménez, go finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u35	I'm finishing up, Madam Vice President. That is, a cut of 93%. In bilateral humanitarian aid we have increased from 71 million to 16 million since 2014. Therefore, now that we are experiencing the most important refugee crisis in our history in Europe, we do not make the effort that would be ours as a country, and only when there have been images that have caused an earthquake in our consciences has the Government reacted. Minister, take a look at what we did - the whole country - when the Balkan crisis, the refugee crisis, happened; look at what the European Union did; look at what Spain did, see how many we received here...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u36	Mrs. Jiménez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u37	...and also look at what the European Union did when we had to manage the crisis in Libya and the refugee crisis at the borders of Tunisia. I think that's enough teaching to move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Jiménez. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, for the Basque Group, would Mr Azpiazu like to speak? [[Denial]] For the People's Group, Mrs Miguélez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u39	Thank you, President. I do come to talk about the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, although better than the minister I am not going to do. It has clearly broken all the lines and reflects the Government's foreign policy priorities, always within the framework of general policy, aimed at achieving economic growth and fiscal consolidation. This policy continues in the next fiscal year with the spending containment measures that we have taken since we arrived at the Government. I believe that from the Minister's intervention it follows, ladies and gentlemen, that this will not prevent all strategic objectives in both foreign policy and international cooperation from being met, because these formulas that have been put in place to rationalise and improve material and human resources have borne fruit in 2015. The budget is largely marked by our membership in the United Nations Security Council during the biennium 2015 and 2016. To that end, it had been necessary to adapt the structure of the Secretariat of State for Foreign Affairs by establishing a United Nations Directorate-General for Human Rights. In this regard, the Group of the European People's Party has tabled an amendment calling for a credit transfer to provide from the outset a budget of EUR 100,000 for our country to play a more active role as host to the numerous working meetings on issues of interest to the Council and which represent an increase in Spain's presence on the international stage. Spain's visibility will be strengthened in October, when we have the rotating presidency of the Council, which will also coincide with the 70th anniversary of the creation of the United Nations, so in some way we will try to push forward a General Assembly resolution that renews the adherence of States to the principles and values of the Charter of the United Nations. But we are also going to be more visible because Spain celebrates the 60th anniversary of membership of this organization and I know that the ministry is working to bring Spain to the Secretary General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, to participate in the events to be held. 2016 will be a continuation of this intense diplomatic work; support for the work of non-profit institutions in the field of human rights continues to be maintained, for the entire programme of support for human rights defenders, as committed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, and the appropriations have been reorganized - the Minister has already explained - in order to be able to increase by 60% the allocations or amounts allocated to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Alliance for the Memory of the Holocaust and the International Commission for the Death Penalty. There is a novelty this year in the budget, which is to replace the nominative subsidies to organizations dedicated to the promotion and dissemination of foreign policy with a single budget item of €500,000, where those centres of analysis and thought that want to carry out activities in the field of international relations will have to come, through competitive subsidies. And I would like to quote another amendment that our group has tabled in order to recover the scholarship programme of the diplomatic school, which was abolished in 2012 by budgetary restrictions but which, thanks to the savings obtained in the rationalization of the school's expenditure, this year can be given almost 88,750 euros more for ten master's scholarships in international relations - of great prestige, by the way - and to carry out practices in the ministry. The Cervantes Institute, a key piece in our external image - because the Spanish language must be a prestigious language - focuses this year's budget on promoting the virtual classroom, the AVE Global, for Internet learning in our language, a growing trend in language teaching and in all areas of knowledge. There are two legislative developments that are going to lead to an increase in the income of the institute, although it is not yet known how much. The Institute will carry out language and cultural tests for residents who want to acquire Spanish nationality and who are not Spanish speakers, so it will be a procedure that ensures a homogeneous process using the Cervantes network. The same applies to those Sephardics of Spanish origin who wish to enter the nationality, which will also be the Cervantes Institute that carries out the tests of culture and language. Of course, this will greatly strengthen the Cervantes Institute's budget, as will the 11 million euros that have been approved and that will undoubtedly provide a breathing space in its management. As for international cooperation, it is true that in other times there has been more money. We would have liked to have had an economic boom like the one the previous Government had counted on for international cooperation. In no way can we say that the Government does not believe in the policy of cooperation. Not always has greater budget for cooperation been more effective, since at other times a lot of money has been administered with little discretion and less control. This legislature has chosen to redefine Spanish cooperation, to prioritize the geographical and sectoral areas in which it operates and of course to act with maximum transparency and accountability in management. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be said that the Government has no direction. We may say that we like the policy of the PP government more or less, but what is clear is that in the government there is a clear direction that obviously lacked in previous governments, with which we had a clear lack of leadership that condemned us to loneliness before the European Union, with which Spain went to negotiate with what someone rightly called preventive surrender, with which we chose to remain in the second row of European policy, with an external agenda sometimes parallel when not incompatible with that of our European partners, making our country invisible except for the Alliance of Civilizations, which has remained little or nothing; let alone our sonata absence of the Ibero-American summits, making our foreign policy unbearablely light, ladies and gentlemen. To the gentlemen of the left and also to Mrs Lozano, who has gone along the same lines of intervention, I would like to say that it is not that you and we identify different or different national interests to protect, but that you believe that Spain's international conduct should not be aimed at defending any interest, that it must adhere to ethical dogmas, but to us what matters to us, in addition to ethical dogmas, is to defend the interests of the nation, those who are at every moment, as the minister is doing, and that is not in any way immoral but only responsible. Thank you very much, President. [[Mr Macias i Arau asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Miguélez. Yes, Mr. Macias?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u41	Madam President, if I may, on behalf of my group I would like to protest how you have withdrawn the floor from Mr Guillaumes. It seems to me that in this rostrum there is freedom to express what one believes. Mr Guillaumes' argument ended not with Mr Margallo's personal performance but with his acting as foreign minister and we have lost him. We already know that Mr. Guillaumes is a man with remarkable invective skills. I would therefore like to make this protest. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u42	Thank you, Mr. Macias. [[The Lord]] Are you done, Mr. Nuet? Thank you very much. [[Mr. Nuet Pujals: Can I not applaud?]] Of course, whatever you want, but I respected your applause and that's why I asked you. I have simply used the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure clearly state that when a matter is being debated, the attention of the Member must be drawn from the Presidency to return to the subject under discussion, and we are debating the general budgets of the State. As to what each Member of this House thinks of another member of the House or a member of the Government, thank God, we have freedom of expression and freedom of the press to express in the media and where he considers it appropriate, which has already been done, opinions on statements by different members of the Government; but here we are talking about the General Budgets of the State. As far as the times are concerned, I would suggest to Mr Macias that he talk to his colleagues when he divides the time between two. His group was used to one, but now they're intervening two and it's seven minutes, and Mr. Guillaumes I've given one more minute, but there comes a time when we have to cut. It's not my fault, it's your responsibility. Therefore, I have not offended Mr Guillaumes, but I have left him more time than he should, so I suggest that he reach an agreement with his colleagues in Unito at the time of sharing the seven minutes which they now have. We move on to the debate on Titles I and II. In defence of amendment, first of all, by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before going into detail on the references to Titles I and II and the amendments we have tabled, it is necessary to make an introductory general assessment of what the content of these budgets is for my group. The Government has made repeated statements that the economic recovery that has been observed since 2014 justifies the continuity presented by these budgets for 2016, in order to ensure economic growth and its Titles I and II medium- and long-term sustainability. From this position of principle, the Government proposes the presentation of these budgets as an act of political responsibility in the face of the negligence or irresponsibility of the socialist government presided over by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero when he held elections without having approved the budgets. Such an approach would be acceptable if the PP Government had demonstrated during the processing of these budgets a genuine political will to make budgets that would help to make the sustainability of economic growth compatible with the aim of improving the living conditions of the Spaniards. But not only has it not demonstrated such a political will to negotiate, but it has made clear during the process that its absolute majority would use it exclusively to impose its budgets and reject any amendment put forward by the opposition, regardless of its technical quality and its consequences for society. In short, the Government is using the parliamentary processing of these budgets to exercise an abuse of a dominant position in the institutional sphere of the legislature, regardless of its consequences. The lack of a negotiating attitude with the opposition, coupled with the impossibility, by pure law of probabilities, that between more than three thousand amendments of the opposition there was no one that technically improves the proposals of the PP government, leads to the conviction of my parliamentary group that the real political purpose of these budgets is pure electoral propaganda and condemn their profound modification in the assumption - quite likely - that after the general elections this year does not govern the People's Party. With regard to Titles I and II and the amendments tabled by UPyD, my parliamentary group has already had the opportunity to point out to the Government, represented by the Minister of Finance and Public Administration, Mr Montoro, during the debate on the deficit ceiling, his conviction that the official macroeconomic forecasts for 2016 would not be met. The studies of BBVA and Funcas also support it and in the coming months we will see that many other national and international entities are joining on the non-compliance with this macroeconomic picture. However, admitting that the Spanish economy will be predictably still in economic growth during 2016, although not with the rates foreseen by the PP government, my parliamentary group cannot share or support the proposals for continuity in the cuts in the budgets presented to us, cuts that are particularly bloody when they apply to social policies and welfare benefits that affect the most vulnerable social sectors. From this general political discrepancy we have formulated the amendments to these two titles. They propose an amendment to Article 11(1)(c) to allow credit transfers resulting from the sale of real estate by the Institute of Housing, Infrastructure and Defence Equipment to be intended to meet, in addition to the operational needs of the Armed Forces, their logistical and investment requirements, since we do not conceive of an improved operational capacity without support for investments and logistical support. We also propose a 1.5 per cent increase in the remuneration of staff serving the public sector, whether civil servants or workers, rather than the 1 per cent set by the Government. It is clear that, beyond the direct budgetary impact, the final objective of this series of amendments to Titles I and II is to generate an exemplary effect, since the cost of the crisis was made more of a burden on public officials and employees than on senior officials of the Administration; moreover, in some cases high-level salaries were increased rather than reduced, taking advantage of the fact that the reduction in the salaries of civil servants and workers of certain self-employed bodies or public enterprises allowed such an increase, without affecting the total expenditure budget of their agencies. In short, and in conclusion, we believe that these budgets, taking advantage of economic growth, should be more fair and equitable with the most disadvantaged social sectors and should recover part of the purchasing capacity that was left to them at the hard times of the crisis, because it is contradictory: either we are improving the economic conditions of the country and therefore we should transfer to society those beneficial effects or, on the contrary, it is a deception of the Government to pretend that this recovery is taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u44	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Plural Left Group, Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is the fifth draft budget that we are debating in this House and, as on previous occasions in this People's Party government legislature, the vast majority of the amendments are not accepted. On this occasion we are dealing with more than 4,000 amendments which are directly ignored, so we have to put in quotation marks whether this is a debate with all those in the law. Rather, it is a parliamentary process that the People's Party has to go through anyway; however, it seems to us that the debates are fundamental to question the theses and the foundations behind the State's own General Budgets and, as on previous occasions, when it comes to the same foundations, we continue to be equally critical of those postulates that are behind. In this case, the Government's forecasts are even more in the air, bearing in mind the international scenario that is telling us that it is very likely that a new financial crisis will erupt in a short time, as a result of the monetary policies carried out by the different central banks and that it is already clearly showing certain effects in countries like China that it is having to make a very strong monetary policy to avoid that crisis. We think that at any time that can affect. It is true that the economic cycle is always slower than the political cycle, but budgets should not be made by ignoring that international context and ignoring that if that were the case, we would find ourselves with a wet role in these budgets. Having said that, we must bear in mind that, as we said, these budgets are based on the same foundations as the previous ones, that is, more austerity understood in the term that the spending ceiling is low and that there is a deeply restrictive policy in terms of public investment making fiscal consolidation the backbone of these budgets. The fact that there is economic growth at the accounting level right now does not mean that Spain's economy is doing well. And it means even less that the people living in Spain are doing well. We are witnessing a change of social order and economic model that is likely to crystallize, as it is already doing, in the fact that it can grow economically, while people continue to have deprivations, and more and more social sectors also have them. In that sense, we believe it is very important to turn this suicidal course around. This can be done as in Title I by applying a different criterion for the scope of income. [[our amendment aims to explain the amendments of the other sections and titles in terms of expenditure]] That is to say, this Government over the past four years has made a deeply contradictory policy because it has understood that austerity was essentially a problem of spending and has set aside income. It has sometimes made a change in revenue, a tax reform that had a certain component in any case positive, but in the end, when we have seen the latest fiscal reforms, we are witnessing the same problem as always, the problem that our tax system is deeply regressive, because indirect taxes, such as VAT, are being raised and direct taxes are being lowered, while at the same time allowing fiscal loopholes such as tax fraud and the existence of instruments operating in tax havens, such as foreign securities holders; instruments that reside in our institution and that the Government protects for some strange reason: because in the end in practice there is a capacity of the big companies and the most powerful economic subjects to avoid the payment of taxes legally, and they can do so legally because the Government does not tackle that problem. When we go to the concrete result of the tax payment, large companies end up paying an absolutely ridiculous effective rate which in some cases does not reach 5%, and if a large company pays 5% in terms of taxes and most of the mortals in this country pay over 25% - because they are very modest in that payment - we are ultimately faced with a deep inequality which increases year after year and which justifies this quantitative increase in it. And it's not just that, because we're not just talking about a normative element, that is, an element that relates morals and ethics to the economy, but we're also talking about how our economy unfolds. Our economy cannot be properly developed in an environment of wide inequality, and that wide inequality has to do with the fact that if the State collects taxes in a regressive way, it has less capacity to make social policy, less capacity to pay for education, less capacity to pay for pensions, less capacity to pay for health care, and that will not be an inevitable issue, but will ultimately be a political decision. That is why we believe that it is very necessary to introduce an amendment which proposes that there are alternatives, that it should be possible to influence revenue precisely in order not to have to go to expenditure as a central element of adjustment. It can be adjusted by means of income, it can attack income in order to increase it progressively, so that it obeys, by the way, article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, that is, to make reference and to be fair and consistent with what is established by that Constitution so often cited and which so often serves as a parapet for other policies of the Government and which, however, on social issues the Government systematically ignores. With another income policy another spending policy can be made and if this spending policy is not made it will continue to increase inequality, and not only - we insist - as an unpleasant moral element, but also and fundamentally because it will lead us to a deeply regressive social model in terms of work, in terms of assistance and in terms of conquered social rights, such as health, education or pensions. That is why we focus this Title I on this one amendment which serves to justify the rest of the amendments tabled to the sections and the titles. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u46	For the Convergence I d'Unió Group, first of all, Mr Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I will try this time not to be guilty of another incident, as I have been before. Allow me as usual in this first intervention, or second intervention because we have had that of section 12, representing the Members of the Democratic Union of Catalonia, to make both a general assessment of the draft General Budgets of the State for the year 2016 and a justification in general of all the amendments that we have formulated, as well as as the Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d'Unió as well as the Democratic Union of Catalonia. The General State Budgets submitted by the Government for 2016 are insufficient to consolidate the slight economic recovery that Spain is experiencing and to address the problems present in our society. Firstly, they do not lay the foundations for reactivating employment and the economy. Secondly, they once again contribute to the deterioration of the welfare state, are once again extremely discriminatory with Catalonia and maintain the constant and sought-after unfair treatment with Catalonia. With minimal or zero growth in the allocations of ministries with a greater impact on the boost of job creation and economic recovery - such as the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism, which is down 9.5% in its allocations - budgets can hardly be a catalyst for economic improvement. Budgets lack a social soul. Insufficient is the purely instrumental increase in pensions by 0.25 %, an increase which de facto entails a further freezing of pensions. Insufficient is the increase in the endowments of the system of autonomy and attention to dependence. It is particularly dramatic that the Government is not aware of the very serious problem of the continued growth of poverty rates and, in particular, of child poverty, with inadequate allocations in these budgets. From Catalonia's perspective, they're not good budgets either. You're wrong, gentlemen of the People's Party. Not to boost public investment in Catalonia - which contributes 18.8% of Spain's GDP and receives only a small 9.5% of the already scarce volume of budgeted and regionalized investment - is not to make a real stake in growth. In short, it is a draft budget that is not an adequate instrument to contribute to economic recovery and job creation, does not contain a social soul and continues to be very unfair to Catalonia. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u48	Thank you, Mr. Picó. Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u49	Thank you, Madam President. The Convergence I d'Unió Group is presenting a single amendment to these Titles I and II, but for us it is a particularly important amendment, so we are going to devote a few minutes to it. We present Amendment 3495 calling for the introduction of Article 18 bis to Title I, on the approval of budgets and their amendments, so that the Government has to report every six months to the General Courts on the territorial distribution of the investment integrity of all entities forming part of the General Budgets of the State. Someone might say: this must be done... but it is not done. Neither through the Budget Office of the Courts nor through questions to the Government have we managed to get to know - yes for the direct accounts of the Government but not for the public entities, for the companies that are, in short, the big investors - for example, for 2014, where the huge sums that are devoted to any investment in the General Budgets of the State have been invested. This was known until 2013 but since 2014 there has been an information blackout and, despite all the government's promises of transparency, it turns out that we are now worse than in 2013. We therefore feel that a way by which the Government would no longer have a loophole in its accountability would be for the State's General Budgets to oblige it, at least twice a year, to report accurately in which province ADIF has invested, for example, the huge sums of public money given to it for administration. This is a very important matter for us. Citizens have the right to know the fate of up to the last euro spent by the institutions. It is money not from the Minister or the Minister, but from all citizens. Therefore, citizens need to know what it is spent on, how it is spent, where it is spent, with what quality it is spent, with what social profitability it is spent on, etc. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in possession of this information. This is therefore an amendment which I would simply call a democratic quality amendment, and I therefore hope that it will be adopted. We have heard repeatedly from the government, the president herself, the vice president in her appearances here that they are the adalids of transparency and who provide the most information...At the moment, we are worse than in 2013, so my group has a small, humble request that through this amendment we have at least the same information as we had been enjoying until 2013 so that we can report to the public on how public money is spent. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u50	Thank you, Mr. Macias. For the Socialist Group, Mr Rangel.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already commented on this in the Commission and I will repeat it in case our position has not been made clear. These budgets, in addition to pure government propaganda, serve little to modernize or strengthen our economy. In fact, they only confirm the policies that the Government has been following throughout the legislature and that translate into more inequality. There is more inequality in income tax policies; more inequality in the rights of citizens, workers; more inequality in wages; more inequality between territories. That's the mark of the house. Ladies and gentlemen, you have missed an entire legislature to modernise our productive fabric. Spain is a country that is deindustrializing, losing industry, but it is that, in addition to having to drive industry, we must do so to make it a more value-added, more efficient and more innovative industry, which always requires more education, more training. There's the key. You have never been interested in education because it creates equality of opportunity and you are against that equality of opportunity and you are against equality. Inequality is not only in the cuts in rights and in the essential services that these budgets hide again because the tax gift will entail more cuts because the public deficit set for the autonomous communities is not expected to be fulfilled this year, and there is also more inequality in investment. Hence our amendment to Title I, which seeks to correct the negative will they have consistently had not to invest what was established in organic laws such as the autonomous statutes for six autonomous communities, and will allow me to quote Catalonia in particular. They are always shielded in interpretations of the Constitutional Court as to whether the obligation to invest or not binds the Government of the nation. That, in short, conceals a clear negative political will not to comply with those statutory forecasts. When one has to systematically appeal to jurisdictional interpretations, in this case the Constitutional Court, what he is doing is hiding the political will to seek solutions, to provide solutions where there are serious problems. Ladies and gentlemen, you in Catalonia have consistently been the problem, but not the only one. But the two extremes, which have fueled short-term visions, electoral tactics, to which we have been led is a situation that some commentator translates this weekend as an abyss. And in the face of the abyss, ladies and gentlemen, only politics can be applied or applied and solutions sought through consensus, or confrontation and step-by-step, and you know what this means. We have tabled a lot of amendments, although only one compromise was adopted by the Commission, I understand that because they had no other remedy, which has to do with the reception of refugees. They rejected all the others and I am very afraid that the same tone will continue in this plenary. In any case, you have turned the budgetary procedure into a simple procedure, not a debate; but it is curious to see how you have sometimes rectified on the road. We ask you to attend the President of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority because we understood that it was necessary that those who had to give their opinion on fiscal policy and to report the budgets were important for them to appear before the Committee on Budgets. They refused at the time. Now, curiously, they've authorized it and will appear in the Senate. Welcome to the rectification! But apart from showing a misguided attitude in their position, I believe that what they are doing in the background is showing contempt for this House and what this House represents. That way few things are going to be fixed. In this way the policy is discredited and therefore, as I told you at the time, these budgets mean the attempt to continue a legislature with an absolute majority towards another legislature. What needs to be changed are the policies, ladies and gentlemen, and I therefore hope that there will be a new government that will implement budgets that meet the needs of the country, both economically and socially, which you have not done in any case. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u52	Thank you, Mr. Rangel. Mr Tardà, first of all, on a position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, all Catalan citizens, regardless of whether they were born in Santa Coloma de Gramenet, in Ripoll, in Andalusia, in Galicia or in Pakistan, suffer an expoliation caused by the fiscal imbalance between Catalonia and Spain and also through the general state budgets, as shown by the fact that these days we are debating, that being the most generous of the entire legislature, they still invest 10% in Catalonia, when we are 16% of the population and generate 18% of GDP. Unfortunately, no party - even if it has ruled, or even those who intend to rule - presents in our view a formula for its eradication. This expoliation does not depend on the colour of the Government, but is structural, chronic and cumulative. It is an expoliation that causes Cercanías to have daily delays in Barcelona, for example, and that makes vital infrastructures for the Catalan economy continue to stand still or move forward as a turtle. And the amendments we are putting forward, about 400, will be rejected. I am speaking to you, for example, of the national N-340, which causes daily deaths; of the Vallirana tunnel; of the connection of the AP-7 to the A-2, which connects the two most industrialized regions of Catalonia, the Western Vallès and the Baix Llobregat; of the Mediterranean corridor; of the unfolding of the national N-II in Girona, as well as of the underground railways committed in the Baix Llobregat for years. Of course, this expoliation does not serve to finance inter-territorial solidarity as it was tainted with insistence from this rostrum. Of course not; it is more, it serves only to pay - and these budgets are proof of all this - an oversized, deficient and oversized army; to build AVE trains from Madrid to all the cardinal points of the peninsula; to subsidize the electric oligopoly... In short, to pay for the centralist and radial system and the capitalism of amiguetes of Madrid. By the way, it is curious that voices who question the expenditure of the commercial embassies of Catalonia do not question, for example, the budget of the Cervantes Institute, which costs twenty times more than those, paying salaries to its directors of more than 100,000 euros, and do not mutate in the face of the null contribution to the Ramon Llull Institute or the lack of support for the Catalan, Basque or Galician languages, nor are they able to subsidize or promote the Tamazight language in Melilla. This is frankly regrettable. You are very capable of seeing the straw in the eye of others but are unable to see the assimilation beam that is installed in your eyes. Where is solidarity, for example, with the Balearic Islands when 48 % of the taxes paid by its citizens are not returned to them, i.e. EUR 3.5 billion, which is roughly what is allocated annually to the island budget in one year? Where is solidarity when all the amendments will be rejected, even those that claim that the Balearic Islands receive the 955 million euros of debt contracted by the State towards them in terms of investments mandated by the same statutory text? Each year, Baleares receives between four and nine times less than the autonomous community in which it invests most. And the same is true of the Valencià Country, where every citizen will receive 178 euros in territorialized investment, that is, 408 euros less than, for example, every citizen of the community of Castile and León. Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments - some 400 - seek to overcome this expoliation and receive resources in line with the population and, on the other hand, to redistribute budgetary expenditure in line with the needs of social expenditure, which should be increased. Well, we have a logical and reasonable formula: it is about reducing military spending by 40%, as Germany did a few years ago. This could increase the costs of the agreed plan, health care costs and, of course, finance the Unit Act. There are other amendments that we have tabled ranging from the need for self-financing of the Catholic Church to the territorialization of 0.7% of the IRPF for social purposes, through the creation of two funds of 100 million euros each to combat child poverty and structural poverty. By the way, we welcome the final adoption of a transactional to increase resources for refugees. For many years all the amendments we have tabled from my group to deal with refugees have been rejected. We welcome this increase to EUR 200 million. I must also tell you that another political debate is now being opened: how and how these resources are transferred to the autonomous communities in order and with the effect that they can manage what comes over us, this great challenge of welcoming in solidarity, just refugees that the Spanish State must accept and receive with open arms. In short, there are four hundred amendments that we are going to defend - we have already defended them in the Commission - in the various sections, to which we will have access, even if few, in view of the fact that we are part of the Joint Group. Let me conclude by saying that we are convinced that these budgets are another demonstration that we have a State against us, which is why they know that our goal is to have a State of our own, the sooner the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u54	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Anyone who has heard the interventions of the opposition groups might think that the situation of the Spanish economy has changed nothing in the last twelve months, because if you read the 'Diario de Sesiones' you will see that the arguments made today are identical to those made in this very forum last year. Already in 2014 they called the budgets electoralists, unreal and useless. You described the macroeconomic picture as false and unrealizable. The 2% growth forecast for 2015 seemed to them to be an illusion and the creation of 300,000 new jobs a utopia. You were hoping for economic recession, stagnating domestic consumption, declining exports and even difficulties in the tourism sector. These were his predictions twelve months ago. That is their credibility, gentlemen of the opposition, in budgetary matters. Fortunately, time puts everyone in their place and has again given reason to the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group and has denied each and every one of their catastrophic wishes. Thanks to the effort of the Spaniards, today we are growing far above those budgeted; today we are doing it at 3.5% nothing less, an absolutely unthinkable figure just a year ago. In Spain we have been able to create more than 540,000 new jobs in the last year, also well above what was planned a year ago. We will close the legislature by reducing the public deficit to much less than half of what the socialists left us as a legacy, an unprecedented adjustment in Europe, nothing less than EUR 50 billion of adjustment. Domestic consumption picks up month by month, exports are on record and the tourism sector has never been better in our history. This is the credibility of the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group, and you, the opposition in bloc, far from acknowledging your mistake and highlighting the efforts made by the Spanish, continue with the same arguments and amendments as a year ago. They will therefore understand why their amendments cannot be accepted and we prefer to support these budgets presented by the Government, which will serve to continue to grow and, more importantly, to continue to create jobs, and in addition to quality jobs, by denying that mantra on inequality and precariousness. Mr Rangel, the precariousness in Spain increased as it had never done between 2007 and 2011, when you ruled and sent more than 3.5 million Spaniards to unemployment and close about 200,000 companies. Today, inequality is diminishing. I will give you another fact, to talk about job insecurity, which is another of your favorite arguments in recent times. Between the first quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of 2015 we have created 283,000 indefinite jobs, which means an increase of 14% per year or the same: we create three times more indefinite employment than Socialist Italy. In the same period, socialist policies in France have destroyed more than 130,000 indefinite jobs. These data are thus and are certified by Eurostat. It can therefore be said, without fear of being mistaken, that the Spanish People's Party creates a lot of jobs, the most in Europe, and it is also quality jobs. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the assessment we make in the People's Parliamentary Group must necessarily be positive. These are the budgets of recovery, and they are for two reasons: firstly, because they are the result of economic recovery. This year we will grow at least 3.3% and in 2016 we will do it at 3%, reaching a cruising speed that we must not change to meet the ultimate goal, which is to create 500,000 jobs every year in the next legislature. This recovery also makes it possible to make progress in strengthening the welfare state by increasing social expenditure to 53.2% of the budget; there are 4.9 billion more direct social expenditure than in the last budgets presented by the socialists, which makes it an eminently social budget because it has more expenditure on education, more health expenditure, more expenditure on social services and more expenditure on R & D+i. Secondly, these budgets will support and boost economic growth, and they will do so on a double front. On the one hand, betting on greater productive investment; extra items that go up in all sections, against what you manifest and this is easily verifiable by going to the budget text. By the way, Mr Tardà, the budgets should be read, because most of the infrastructures mentioned in your previous speech are heavily provided in this draft budgets. - This will be confirmed in the corresponding section below.- The second aspect is the boost of domestic consumption, increasing the Spanish's disposable income through a substantial tax reduction; up to €9 billion of tax reduction, which particularly affects average and low incomes. As much as you insist on saying otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, tax cuts are particularly beneficial to middle and low incomes. Today, 80% of Spaniards already pay less IRPF than in 2011, and despite this the collection is rising by 6%. Moreover, it has now been possible to return to the public workers the extraordinary pay of 2012, raise them the salary that they had frozen since 2010 by the Socialist Party, return them the days of free disposal, and we thus fulfill the commitment made three years ago with them. [[Applauds]] In addition, these general budgets are committed to maintaining fiscal consolidation policies that are so successful. What is shocking is the concern they express about a possible breach of the deficit target and yet the vast majority of the amendments they have tabled mean an increase in public expenditure - in the case of the Socialist Group above EUR 20 billion - without even indicating where they are going to get the money from. With this, I would like to say that if we listened to your amendments, then we would have the public deficit. But if we adjust to the revenue and expenditure forecasts contained in this project, the deficit will continue to decrease. If you do not believe us, you can believe the Bank of Spain, the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the OECD and all the serious economic study centres that support these General State Budgets as realistic, possible, feasible and viable. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic situation has changed a great deal throughout this parliamentary term, and it has done so thanks to the efforts of the Spanish and the reforms approved by the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group. Little or nothing has supported you, too. Despite this, we have gone from being the most serious problem in the European Union to being the country that is growing the most today and is going to grow the most in 2016; from being the one that destroyed 60% of employment in Europe to being the one that creates more than 50% of what is created today in the European Union; in short, from being on the verge of rescue to being the example of how to achieve recovery. With regard to the amendments tabled by the groups, I should like to draw attention to the persistence of some in the error of claiming that it is the different statutes of autonomy that establish where and to what extent the State is to invest. That the nationalist parties do this is not surprising, but that the Socialist Party does, frankly, because you should know that the content of the statutes of autonomy is not imperative and, under no circumstances, conditions the will of the legislator embodied in these budgets. This has been repeatedly stated by the Constitutional Court, including in judgement 31/2010. Mr Rangel, frankly, I am concerned to see the view you have of the Constitutional Court in recent times. Moreover, you have never complied with the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, because it is the one you mentioned in your previous speech. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. These budgets will serve to support economic recovery and to provide our economy with the necessary credibility to face 2016 with confidence. Frankly, I have to tell you that, seeing the economic policy proposed by the Socialist Group in its amendments, one can only be very concerned, because it is the same economic prescriptions of the Zapatero era - expenditure, expenditure and more expenditure - adapted to some of the occurrences of its partners on the far left, which you now endorse. Not in vain, you share a leading economist, as we knew last week. You will understand our concern, as your recipes have already left Spain ruined in 2011, and Podemos' recipes have led to misery and despair for the citizens of those countries where they govern. Of course, the People's Parliamentary Group does not want those recipes for the Spanish. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u56	Thank you, Mr. Olano. We are now discussing Title III of the budgets. In defence of your amendments, first of all by the Basque Group, Mr Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what we discussed in the Commission last week is back in plenary. More than four thousand and three hundred amendments - I think four thousand and three hundred and twenty-seven - were rejected virtually without further delay, showing that neither the Government nor the People's Parliamentary Group had the slightest will to reach any agreement. Only one amendment was the subject of a compromise, apart from those adopted by the People's Party and UPN, which, let us say, is the same in this respect. This is an amendment which has been tabled in order to provide a budget of EUR 200 million to deal with the serious problem of refugees; an important - very important - but timely budget. In addition, now the ministers come to us to explain the excellence of their budgets when we have spoken and debated, I would say, surplus or excessive, about the various ministries. It could be said - if there were any ministers here - that a dead donkey, barley in the ass, but their presence allows them to amplify their publication and intensify the electoral campaign, ignoring that this repeated debate does not interest anyone or very few, because it is false as a chocolate coin. Citizens and the media know that there is nothing important to discuss and resolve, just three days of empty words and countless pages of the 'Diary of Sessions'. We criticise in its day the unnecessary nature of this project for its electoral character and call it democratic fraud. We know that it is not out of responsibility - as the popular spokespersons stress - we know that it is pure and hard electoralism with offers to specific groups, as is the case with officials. In the full debate we pointed out two additional reasons for rejecting the draft: on the one hand, the lack of sufficient economic information to draw it up with the necessary guarantees - the guarantees to draw up the macroeconomic picture and the budgetary variables - and, on the other hand, we denounced the Government's lack of commitment to the Basque Railway Y. With the appropriated budget allocations, it is not possible, as committed by the Government, for the work to be completed in 2019. In this context and with these premises we wonder whether it was reasonable to table multiple amendments and to enter the parliamentary game, thus in some way legitimising the conduct of the People's Group and of Mr Rajoy's Government, or simply to present a very small number of important amendments from the competitive and economic sphere, the latter being definitely our position. We believe that more than four thousand amendments have been tabled, but given the unwillingness of the Group of the European People's Party, no agreement can be reached, I sincerely believe that it is an excessive and unnecessary scene. The Basque Group has tabled eight amendments, six to the joint text and two to the sections; one of them, 236 refers specifically to Title III, and specifically to Article 20, which provides for public employment. By means of this amendment we propose 'the addition of a subparagraph in paragraph 1 (1), the deletion of paragraph 1 (4), the amendment of paragraph 3 and Title III the deletion of paragraph 4, paragraph 5 and paragraph 6'.... This is an amendment that unfortunately we are obliged to submit year after year, because year after year the Government fails to comply with the law. The second subparagraph of paragraph 1 is intended to enable a public offer of employment for the recruitment of staff in cases arising from the start-up of public sector entities or bodies. The Ertzaintza must be exempted so that it can reach the numbers set out in the additional 12th and 12th bis, respectively, to which I shall refer when it defends the amendments corresponding to the additional provisions. Gentlemen of the Government and gentlemen of the People's Group, respect the Statute of Autonomy and the agreements of the Security Board. They like to say that there has never been a level of autonomy as great as that of Euskadi or that of another community, and this seems a contradiction if we notice that it is not even possible to cover the squares of Ertzaintza. I believe that you too will find it a contradiction and, precisely in order to correct it at least partially, it is for this reason that we are introducing Amendment No 236.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u58	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u59	Several speakers have pointed out that this in substance, since we already know from the procedure in the Commission that no amendment is going to be accepted, is a pure process. One might ask: why do we make so many amendments if we already know that they will not accept any? It is not because of a masochist pruritus; it is simply to show that, contrary to what is repeatedly said by the People's Party and the Government, there are real alternatives to the general budgets that have been presented to us and, if these initiatives presented through partial amendments are not taken into account, it is because of a lack of political will. From that point of view, I would like to explain the two groups of amendments to Title III tabled by our parliamentary group, because within the deep injustice of budget cuts made in previous years as a result of the crisis, there is a greater injustice, because when the country's economy is already recovering it continues to be taxed to the same sectors. In relation to these sectors, we have tabled amendments to Title III on staff costs. Basically, a country's budgets are not only income-based spending and strengthening political priorities in one direction or another, they are also a tool for wealth redistribution, they are a tool for creating social justice. In this respect, a group of amendments is intended to introduce the 100% replenishment rate and not the 50% non-replenishment rate - which is what the Government has in its general budgets - of non-replenishment. I had to listen to the Foreign Minister earlier when he was talking about the recovery of the call for twenty seats for foreign service as if it were a success. What is to be said is that these twenty seats will not compensate for the eighty or ninety seats in the foreign service that have been lost in previous years. Therefore, applying the criterion of our amendment would not have been twenty places but forty. Why? Because the deterioration in the provision of basic public services, due to the non-replenishment rate that has been applied in previous years, is having very serious consequences for the quality, effectiveness and efficiency of such public services. In many cases - I will have the opportunity to demonstrate this when we talk about some of the sections in the next few minutes and days - the cost of losing economies of scale may exceed the public expenditure that would have directly occurred as a result of our amendments. In the same vein, since it is a question of social justice - as I pointed out for Titles I and II, which we proposed to increase the salaries of civil servants by 1.5% - the amendments and proposals we have made in this title with a view to reducing to 0.5% the wage increase in senior positions, in management positions of state agencies or public enterprises, and even of the members of the Council of State. It is not only a matter of compensating part of the increase in expenditure we propose in the other headings, but also of setting an example of the political will that those who are more and better paid are within the public administration assume what they have had to do for years before those who had less remuneration within it. I conclude that it is not only a question of spending better and more effectively, but also of setting an example of social justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u60	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Plural Left Group, Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. The austerity policies we have described in the previous intervention have been aimed at cutting expenditure, mainly social expenditure, but also those related to the remuneration of public employment, and this has consequences both on those who received these remunerations and, in macroeconomic terms, on demand. This has meant that many of the households with members in public employment have seen their purchasing capacity systematically lost. This was not just because of this Government, but there were precedents in the previous Government, which even froze those salaries, which led to a significant reduction in remuneration; but the fact is that in the last years of the crisis, public officials and employees in general have seen how they have lost purchasing power and become more expensive to them. If there is some economic recovery, as the Government would say, if it is true that such accounting growth should reach the whole world, then logically steps should be taken to ensure that we are all part of that economic growth as insignificant as it may seem. There is a need to distribute what is growing among the population as a whole, and it therefore seems clear that this remuneration has to grow above what the Government establishes; therefore, one of our amendments proposes that this growth must be sufficient to recover, although it cannot be done in a single exercise, that purchasing capacity at a faster rate. Similarly, we understand that this public wage affects private wages, i.e. it usually becomes a kind of guide in the negotiation of collective agreements; therefore, the systematic decline as a reason for public wage adjustment policies has also resulted in a decrease in private wages. Therefore, an increase in the public sphere would also serve to push private wages and promote economic recovery on the demand side. At the same time, we believe it is essential to tackle the temporary nature of public employment, which is why we would like to highlight other amendments in this block. Since the signing of the EBEP, this temporality has been reduced in the public sector, but as a result of the crisis, this temporality has been triggered, it has grown again and, in our view, these working conditions are not permissible in any sector, but even less so in the sector representing the whole State. These are the fundamental amendments so that, as we said at the beginning of our presentation in the previous intervention, economic growth, however small or small it may be, must be distributed equally and equally; it cannot be an economic growth which only results in a social minority, and some of these amendments are moving in that direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u62	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. For the Catalan Group, Mr Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, all parliamentary groups have agreed on the need for a change in the model of economic development and, following the crisis we have suffered - and which we continue to suffer with not only economic but also social consequences - my parliamentary group has always argued that it is necessary to strengthen the research and development system in order to implement this change in economic development. The investments we make in this area, in research, development and technology, are crucial to this. Perhaps there are a lot of people - for example, Minister Montoro - who think that asking for an increase in research, development and innovation can be an expense and it is, of course, but it is also an investment for the future. Although some measures have been taken - few - the data show that both public expenditure, which is manifestly low, and private expenditure, is not really an impulse, and that worries us, especially in terms of human resources. I am making this introduction in relation to the amendments we have made to Title III on an exception and an extension of the exception provided for in the General Budgets of the State in Article 20. With regard to Amendment No 3496, our proposal is that the limitations on recruitment should be explicitly excluded when this is carried out through external resources obtained from R & D+i promotion programmes, applicable to universities, hospitals and research centres, which are largely competitive in nature. Another amendment which we have tabled proposes the extension to the exception recognised in Article 20(3) of the draft State General Budgets Act. We propose to extend this exception to the university level and not to include within the limit of the replacement rate the places that are called for their provision through processes equivalent to an internal promotion, given the peculiarity of the legal regime of the teaching and research staff. These are two measures that we propose to create critical mass in relation to human resources for subjects such as research, development and innovation. By creating this critical mass we can drive the economic model change to which he referred. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u64	Thank you, Mr. Picó. Mr. Macias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am going to take Mr Picó's arguments in relation to the two amendments to Title III, staff expenditure, and then I am going to comment on the personnel aspects of these budgets. The General Budgets of the State for 2016 foresees an increase in salaries for staff serving the public administration by 1%, which makes sense, as we are in full recovery and at a time like this it is logical that citizens, those groups of citizens who have made the greatest effort during these years of crisis, recession, are rewarded in something. We share the fact that these salaries have a certain increase and an effort is made to recover part of the purchasing power through the recovery of a percentage of the extraordinary payments that they did not receive in their day. We could say that it is good that this scheme applies to State officials, in the broadest sense of the word State. The State is the central administration, but it is also the autonomous communities, it is the municipalities, it is much more, it is the university professors. Therefore, realizing that this provision ends up benefiting everyone, it would seem logical that, since we all took this decision, the General Budgets of the State also contained the necessary provisions for all these administrations to have sufficient funds to be able to cover these costs, this extra cost, to say the least, without having to cut, because if certain administrations with one hand we tell them to raise these salaries - well, I agree, I applaud - but on the other hand we do not give the other hand, that is, we give the resources, it is obvious that these other administrations will have serious difficulties to be able to do an act of justice as this is what we are talking about. [[municipalities, communities, universities]] Therefore, my group - we have amendments in this regard to other sections that we are going to comment on - welcomes this policy of a certain recovery of the purchasing power of officials, but warns that this cannot go against the rest of the citizens, because, if there is no more money, something will have to be cut. This is nothing but a sadistic trap and, as the sadistic traps are very ugly, I would like us to make a set of decisions so that this would benefit the entire Spanish civil service but also all the citizens of the Spanish state. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u66	Thank you, Mr. Macias. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sumelzo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the course of these four years we have been saddened by the premeditated strategy of the People's Party Government to destroy public services and have spared no resources for this. His obsession has been to favor the private businesses of a few to the detriment of everyone's interests. One of the actions of his strategy was the initiation of a hostile campaign against public employees, who fortunately have been the ones who have maintained the quality of public services that we all enjoy. Now, for the sake of pure electoral interests, they have granted a truce and have done so by a decree that they adopted this last Friday in the Council of Ministers, which will return to them in full electoral campaign what, recently, their Government snatched from them and capriciously snatched it because it was not necessary. It was not enough for them to accuse them of being vague and to question their professionalism, but they also decided to eliminate the extra pay they are now receiving again, the days of leave and cut their health benefits. They deprived them of collective bargaining, hampered their professional career, abandoned their training plans, ended their replacement rates, destroyed public employment and frozen their wages, except for those of the high-ranking, that is. [[over 200,000 public jobs]] Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Title III, which I now defend, are aimed at redressing the damage you have done during these four years of government. We also know that this is the same for them, but they have used some of the amendments that we are advocating today to adopt a decree that partially restores what you have taken from them. What concept do they have of public employees? Do you think they have no memory? Or perhaps they doubt their democratic maturity? In the twenty-first century no citizen is deceived and manipulated by the graceful decisions made by a government, and you govern through electoral calculations and, in the absolute decadence of your government action, you play with the citizens in every Council of Ministers. We have won something, that is true, because during these last four years the only thing you have done has been to punish them, and the Public Service is no stranger to these punishments. For all the above reasons, the amendments tabled which we are going to defend are grouped into two areas: the remuneration rights of public employees and a commitment to an adequate size of the staff to ensure the quality of the public services received by the Spaniards, because those who lose if they are not accepted are the citizens, the same ones who have seen the welfare state become much weaker today than four years ago. We in the Socialist Group are presenting these amendments and we are doing so from the point of view of responsibility. We are calling for a 1.5% wage increase for public employees, only half a point more than you offer them scarringly, because only in this way will it be possible to partially compensate for the freezing of wages and prevent them from losing purchasing power again. Another group of amendments tabled by the Socialist Group is aimed at providing, as I said earlier, public services with a sufficient number of staff. That is why we are calling for an increase in the replacement rate of 150% in essential services, because how can we be an advanced country if the government has prevented adequate funding in schools, hospitals, health centres, the security forces and, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, also in the Tax Agency, which is responsible for prosecuting cheaters and those who deceive the public finances? In short, you - even if you don't listen to me - have preferred to cut into the workers who are looking for the defrauders you were amnestying, some, by the way, very close to your political party, even some very close to the government. With the last of these amendments we are talking about the full and once-for-all recovery of public employees' leave days. How can we defend these amendments? They have made it very easy for us: telling them that thank you very much for including them in the decree that you adopted last Friday in the Council of Ministers. It would have been great news if you had not used these labour rights as an electoral tool as you have done, because it is shameful that you now allow leave until the end of the year when you have had them kidnapped during most of the legislature. Is this a responsible government's own thing? I'd really like them to answer us. How do you justify depriving public employees of their days of leave for three years and now, at the last moment of the legislature, when you have very little time left in the seat where you are sitting, you give them back by an interested concept of capturing wills? Ladies and gentlemen, never before had constitutional Spain experienced such a poor democratic quality or institutional disloyalty, because its commitment is to govern without listening, and they forget, to govern from their backs to their citizens. They have also forgotten the people who live in the villages and that is why we are putting forward a block of amendments which seeks to correct this. They have deprived local entities of the necessary and often essential funds to undertake works that are very necessary in small municipalities. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen, in these small municipalities people live, many people live that you have forgotten, that are despised by you and those who are condemning to be second-rate citizens. You have ruled, as I said, from your backs to your citizens with this and with many more things. At the last minute they are trying to correct their numerous contempt for public employees, as I said, and we would be glad that this purpose of amendment was sincere, since it is never too late to correct mistakes that one makes, but in this case the self-amendment that they have made to their budgets corresponds only to electoral criteria. I know that our amendments - I finish now - will not go beyond the relentless roll of their absolute majority, with which they have also ruled these four years, even though they are drafted from the responsibility,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u68	Mrs. Sumelzo, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u69	...the same one that you have missed throughout the legislature, but if you have any political size left, accept the socialist amendments. Public employees and, above all, the misguided public services that we use all citizens will be grateful to you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Sumelzo. For the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Martín-Toledano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Title III of these budgets is the fulfilment of the commitments of the People's Party Government to public employees. I think that the Socialist Party is very upset about the fulfilment of our commitments, because the efforts that the People's Party requested of public employees were temporary and short-term in nature, and the Socialist Group's spokesman is well aware of the efforts that the Socialist Party called for in 2010 with the support of many of you, who voted on the real decree that reduced the salary of public employees by an average of 5%, a reduction that definitively applied to them. Don't move your head, that's forever, you've lost it forever and you can't return it. You bring here today a series of amendments consisting of: and I two hard-boiled eggs. If the People's Party proposes to increase the salaries of public employees by 1%, you by 1.5%. If it is said that the replacement rate for strategic sectors is raised to 100 per cent, you 150%. That's nothing serious. The amendment that the Socialist Group should have brought here today should have been to apologize to public employees for the attacks received from the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] The largest historical cut in public employees' incomes was the royal decree which reduced their wages by an average of 5%. But they didn't settle for it. Now you criticize other measures of the People's Party, but it was you who started the wage freeze, who started to limit the public offer of employment, and now you come here to say that you are the defenders of public employees. But how dare you? If you should apologize. You and your policies are a problem for public employees, yes, yes, because you, every time you rule, ruin the nation and, therefore, endanger the payment of workers' wages. All the administrations you govern are misadministered and public employees are afraid not to charge their salaries. With the People's Party it is well known that if an effort is called for and the Government commits itself to the return of that effort, it is done. In these General State Budgets, which are of course a great news for public employees, the refund of the 2012 Christmas extra payment is completed and deferred. It wasn't eliminated, it was delayed. At the beginning of 2015 25% was returned. It seems to you that last Friday the Council of Ministers decided to return another 25% and that in January the other 50% will be able to be returned. That's a guarantee and good news for public employees. The days of free will - through a series of agreements that have been taken - that have been abolished for public employees are also being returned. That's good news. In addition, the public offer of employment is improved. That's good news, as is the end of the wage freeze that you started. In the Commission you told me that a 1% increase was very bad, because there was a forecast - according to your lordship - that the CPI this year would be 1.5%, - yes, you said it in the Commission, - but it turns out that the annual CPI is less than 0.4%, that is, we are in a context of CPI reduced and we increase the salary by 1%. By the way, when you averaged 5% of the salary of public workers, do you know what the CPI was that year? 3 %. With a 3% CPI you reduced the wages of workers by 5%. And you accuse us of mistreating public employees? A little bit of reason, a little bit of memory and a little bit of respect, because the danger to public employees is the government of the Socialist Party and has been demonstrated. We want a policy of economic improvement, and when such economic improvement has made it possible to return efforts to public employees, this return of rights has been applied. It is not a capricious or electoral decision, it is because there is now economic recovery. It would have been irresponsible to grant the return of those rights without having the money to fulfil it. Of course that of budgetary balance and having money to pay for things seems to be of no interest to you at all, neither to you nor to your group. Besides, you have to have memory. How do you come here and tell us that both the People's Party and the People's Party government mistreat public employees? His party rules in Andalusia. What happened to the autonomic supplements to the extra pay? That in 2013 and 2014 they were suppressed, you and United Left, which also comes out to say that you are defenders of public employees. But it is that in Catalonia they were also eliminated, gentlemen of Convergence i d'Unió, with the budgetary support of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, which seems to be very social, but which supported the elimination of the autonomous complements of public employees in the years 2013 and 2014. Now you come here, you come up to the rostrum with scattered words and you let go of a number of strong and offensive words for the People's Party, for which we sit in those seats, we are told that we are not going to be sitting... Well, that's citizens' decision in the elections and we'll see who sits here and who sits there and, of course, how many of us repeat or not. What I must say is that a government of the People's Party in the future, after the next elections, is a guarantee of economic growth and a guarantee of economic growth is a guarantee of continuing to bet on improving the conditions of employment of public employees, of the Public Service, which, by the way, are excellent professionals, I have to say, we have always said this from the People's Group and we will always keep it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u72	Thank you, Mr. Toledo. We are now discussing Titles IV and VIII and Section 07. In the defence of amendments, Mrs Fernández Davila, first and foremost, for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u73	Thank you, Madam President. For the agreement we have adopted in the Joint Group, ladies and gentlemen, regarding the time of debate on the General Budgets of the State, the Galego Nationalist Block will defend the amendments tabled to Titles III, IV, VI, VII and Sections 01, 14, 15 and 60. We cannot mention all the amendments tabled, so we will refer to those which we consider to be of particular political relevance at the present time. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, of those related to the increase in the salaries of officials and also of the replacement rate agreed for 2016. It seems important to us to point out that we have tabled a refund amendment to a draft budget that has been brought to the House at the time of the end of the parliamentary term, which is sufficient enough not to vote favourably because it mortgages the future government, which does not have to be the political group that is currently governing - from our group we hope that it is not the People's Party that is governing in the next parliamentary term - and we even believe that it is not legitimate for these budgets to be approved. However, we are in the process and therefore our amendments in these two matters are in the direction that although it is true that, in this electoralist approach that the government wanted to make of these budgets, it speaks of a kind of generosity towards the civil servant with this 1% increase, we understand that it is a generosity that does not exist anywhere, because in the last five years of crisis public officials have lost about 20% of purchasing power, so 1% say absolutely nothing. Hence our amendment of a 3% increase, effectively excluding senior officials. With regard to replacement rates, where the Government sells as something important that in 2016 these rates will be put back at 100 per cent, there is an issue that this Government is obvious, not because it does not know it, but because it claims that the other citizens do not know that in the last four years of the People's Party government, the public employees' places have not been replaced, which for different reasons have been left vacant. That is the case, to give a very clear example, ladies and gentlemen, of the great problem faced by the public education services, which begin the course with a very serious problem because virtually all the autonomous communities find that they do not have enough teachers to, with the appropriate and recommended ratios, attend to the students in this course, precisely because all the vacancies that have remained during all these years as a result of the retirements or pre-retirements have not been filled, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not think what the Government is proposing is appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a hurry because I have gone too far on the previous issue, and we have also tabled various amendments relating to the tax system. The legislature ended without the Government having faced a real reform of it, so that it could be more equitable and progressive. The amendments we have tabled are in that direction and are linked to a tax. Titles IV and VIII. Section 07 to the great fortunes, with more progressive and with establishing in the company tax a rate of 35 % for the tax bases greater than one hundred million and, something that has been repetitive by the Galego Nationalist Block, the issue of the Sicavs, because it does not seem fair or equitable that the draft of the General Budgets of the State previews an increase in the taxation of the incomes of the savings and that precisely the people who possess billions of assets do not tax on their personal income and do so only through the Sicavs by 1 %. [[Passive Classes]] We do not want to forget, ladies and gentlemen, our amendment of EUR 150 million for persons with disabilities, to transfer to the Community of Galicia. The data is there. There is a waiting list that has not been resolved with the effectiveness it should. There are people who have been recognized as having a disability who may result in a benefit, but, as the data say, one in five dies before receiving it. There are more than 100,000 people, as indicated by the State Defence Coordinator of the Unit Act, arguing also that this Government is not transferring to the autonomous communities the 50 per cent it is responsible for financing this issue, but is doing so only by 17 per cent. Also in relation to the autonomous communities and local entities we are submitting amendments to be able to increase their income in order to be able to face these basic public services that belong to either of these two administrations, because we understand that the autonomous deficit - which is being used as a pretext, ladies and gentlemen, to undertake new re-centralisations, which is what this Government is doing - is in fact a deficit of basic public services of the autonomous communities. That is why we include that the new case of revision of the Global sufficiency Fund of the existing autonomous financing model is given more funding when the deficit arises from such basic services. I have some amendments that we have not been able to explain for lack of time, but I would like to conclude by saying that these budgets continue to maintain policies to reduce social spending, regardless of the small increase that this government project presents for 2016. There has been no focus on improving basic public services and therefore we continue to be victims of the very serious cuts in services as important as health, education and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Davila. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my previous speeches I have referred to the fact that budgets not only have to try to adjust public deficit commitments, they not only have to look for a certain adjustment between income and expenditure, they not only have to demonstrate the government's priorities in the various policies that must be implemented, but they are also an instrument of wealth redistribution, they are an instrument of social justice. Title IV, which has to do with public pensions, is a paradigm of this which I am referring to, because, indeed, most of the increase - because there is an increase in this section in the 2016 General State Budgets - is not the result of a significant increase in pensions, which will only be increased by 0,25 %. It is mainly a consequence of the increase in pensioners and pensions, of both. The Government has opted for an increase I would not say modest, I would say insulting. Our parliamentary group cannot subscribe to government proposals not only because it considers them insufficient economically, but also because we consider them to be clearly unfair and regressive. I would dare say that the government, with this modest 0.25% increase on a linear basis, is actually trying to hide the dubious sustainability of social security in the medium and long term with the treatment that the government is giving it during this legislature. That is why we have tabled two important amendments aimed at amending Article 36, first to increase pensions, both for social security and for passive classes, an average of 1%, i.e. four times as proposed by the Government, and also because we want this increase not to be linear but to be redistributive, i.e. that pensions equal to or less than EUR 900 per month would be increased by 1.5%, equivalent to a maximum of EUR 162 per year, compared to the EUR 27 annual increase proposed by the Government; pensions ranging from EUR 901 to EUR 1,500 would increase by 1%, which would mean a maximum of EUR 150 per year, instead of the EUR 45 proposed by the Government, and those exceeding EUR 1,501 per year, up to the maximum set as a ceiling, would do so by 0.5%. In the latter case, the annual increase would be €154.8 per year, compared to €77.4 per year in the Government's linear increase. You know what that means? I'll explain it to you in a simpler way. It means that the maximum deviation between the increase we propose for lower pensions and the increase for higher pensions is 4.3%. Do you know what the deviation between the Government's proposal for lower and higher pensions is? 300 %, of course in favour of higher pensions. This means, within the modest amounts that the budgets allow, to do social justice, to redistribute wealth, to try to improve, within what the budget and the deficit limits allow, those sectors, in this case pensioners, with lower pensions, which curiously are the majority of Spanish society, in terms of either contributory or non-contributory pensions. These are the proposals that our parliamentary group has made and that the People's Party has rejected without even going into any compromise. That is the kind of conduct that, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech this afternoon, explains that what has been done during the processing is an abuse of a dominant and institutional position, in this case of the Legislative Power, and that is one of the reasons why our parliamentary group cannot accept the position of the People's Party or that of the Government, which will undoubtedly later defend with arguments clearly fallacious. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u76	Thank you, Mr. Calduch. For the Convergence I d'Unió Group, Mr Picó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u77	Thank you, Madam President. It stated earlier that the draft General State Budgets submitted by the Government lacked a social spirit. The clearest example of this is the purely instrumental increase in pensions to 0.25 %, an increase which de facto represents its freezing. We can only describe it that way, ladies and gentlemen, because if the macroeconomic picture for 2016 predicts that there will be an increase in the consumer price index of 0.5%, how can pensions be increased by 0.25 %? Should not at least 0,5 % be increased to cover this price rise? As I said, it is an increase that is not such, but a make-up that the People's Party government is making. We have tabled two amendments to this section. One concerns the revaluation rate and the revaluation of SOVI pensions. In this regard, it is important to note that it is the second General State Budgets that include the new pension revaluation system, a system that was not discussed in the Toledo Pact and that no one understands how it will be configured to achieve the revaluation provided for in the General State Budgets. That is related to an amendment that our parliamentary group has made to the final provisions. It is a new final provision, in which it is proposed to return to the system of revaluation of pensions prior to the entry into force of Law 23/2013, a law that I would like to remind Mrs Spain, as I also did in last week's Committee on Budgets, which was not discussed or worked in the Committee on the Toledo Pact. That's right, Mrs. Spain. I would like to make a final reference to the amendment, also made by our parliamentary group, to Article 106 of Title VIII of the bill, which provides for contributions for vocational training under the special scheme for self-employed workers. This is a minimum contribution, which reflects the repeated claim by many self-employed associations to be able to access training funds and thus improve their training. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really surprising - we have always said this - that self-employed workers are not yet able to access these training funds. Therefore, considering that this provision must be included in the State's general budgets, there must be a contribution for vocational training of this scheme so that its workers can access these training funds. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u78	Thank you, Mr. Picó. Mr Macias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to reporting on the amendments tabled by the Convergence i d'Unió Group to Titles IV and VIII, I would like to make a few comments on the Convergence position on public pensions and social contributions policy. In order to guarantee the purchasing power of pensions, an increase of 0.25 % is envisaged. This is what the General Budgets of the State provide for. It is clear that if the inflation forecast that the budgets themselves make for the coming year is 0.5%, pensions will not be able to regain purchasing power, but there is the obvious risk - 0.5% is a forecast - that they will lose it. Look at you, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes the relative and absolute figures are very different. 0.25 % certainly seems a small amount, but if we do the exercise, for example, of placing ourselves in a minimum pension - around 600 euros - and applying this 0.25 %, we will see that this pensioner would be raised by around one and a half euros. This is almost insulting for a minimum pension. You might even understand that the average government wants to allocate is 0.25%. But, man, do some redistributive politics! Freeze those who have more or give more to those who have less. If we were talking about pesetas, we would say: Just give them a hard one; in this case we would say: At least give them 5 euros. At least, let's see. This denotes insensitivity of the Government and therefore, in order to remedy this minimal insensitivity, we believe that it is worthwhile that pensions, at least, are appropriate to what the budgets say will increase the price of life. This is one of our most sensitive amendments. Sometimes it is difficult to explain things to citizens, but if citizens read the small book explaining the budgets they would be even more surprised, since they would see, for example, that the salaries of senior managers rise by 3.49%, while pensions rise by 0.25%. I believe that the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, are taking good note. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u80	Thank you, Mr. Macias. For the Socialist Group, Mrs López i Chamosa.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing budgets whose process is more than questionable, because they have been made thinking of elections at the end of the year. It is undemocratic, almost a fraud, to make budgets for a next government when we do not know what that government is going to be, but as the votes have we are debating them. Throughout this legislature, on the subject of pensions, the Government has not known or wanted to know what the problem of social security is, what the problem of our public pension system is. The problem of our public pension system is income rather than expenditure, but the four years of the legislature have passed by making laws and reforms in the opposite direction. They have made a labor reform, introduced flat rates and partial contracts, all in the direction of reducing income, and reduced them. But how have they done the cost reduction? They have done so with the sustainability factor and with increments of 0.25, when - I repeat - the problem of our system is revenue. You tell the pensioners that they are going to raise their pensions by 0.25 %, as you did last year, but on the other hand you tell them that you are going to remove from their pockets EUR 900 million corresponding to the pharmaceutical co-payers and the 400 medicines that you have taken out of the system, and this is what you call maintaining the purchasing power of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, get this straight and make it clear. In 2014 there were 16.430.053 contributors and in 2015 there were 17.008.206, which is good news: 578,000 more contributors. What's the problem with that good news? That there has hardly been an increase in income despite these 578,000 additional contributors. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 the contribution income in the first six months was 33,136 million and in 2015 during the same period it was 33,522 million; that is, 578,000 more contributors and just 300 million more revenues. And for the 2016 budget we are told that they will increase revenues by 6.75 %? If nearly 600,000 contributors were needed for 300 million, we would have to talk about 4 or 5 million jobs in order for the income to be 6.75 %. Who thinks that? This is a hairstyle for those of us who know little about social security. They know you can't do it and they won't do it. In these first six months they have already had 9.8% less income than expected for this year, and that - I repeat - with almost 600,000 more affiliates. The paper endures everything, but, ladies and gentlemen, we all know social security and what its income situation is. Throughout the legislature, the Toledo Pact has been as if it did not exist. I remind you that the Toledo Pact means talking, discussing and agreeing; that is the Toledo Pact, but you have taken it as if it were: I come, I inform you, I listen to you and I decide what I think. That is not the Toledo Pact; the Toledo Pact is agreement, agreement and agreement, and throughout this legislature they have made neither an agreement, nor one, on the fundamental issues. There have only been two or three laws that have been positive and that we left practically made us when we left. Then they go up to this rostrum and speak with all their face of inheritance. Today he was telling us his budget spokesman that we have left unpaid I don't know what, what is inheritance. We have left you with 67 billion savings in the Social Security Reserve Fund, money from all the workers and all the pensioners, and you, with your labour reform measures and flat rates, have done nothing but lay hands on the fund, lay hands on the fund and lay hands on the fund. And on top of that this summer - you see it, it's on the ministry and social security website - they tell us: This year we only take 3.2 billion from the fund, 34% less than last year. What about the 2,300 they took from the mutuals? What about that, because that money has to be returned. Please be clear. And now they tell us: We propose to take widow's and orphan's pensions out of Social Security. No, no and no. Contributing to non-contributory widow and orphan pensions means minimum pensions for all widows. [[Applauds]] We don't agree.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u82	Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u83	In a parliamentary gesture that you must thank, we will discuss an amendment on the issue of the birth of a 5, 10 or 15% more for women who retire next year. Look, a woman who retires and has a pension of 700 euros her child will be worth 30 euros; a woman who receives a pension of 2,500 her child will be worth 235 euros. That is, children are not even equal when it comes to valuing birth. [[Applauds]] And on top of that, Deficit Social Security...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u84	Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u85	I'm done, Madam President. Deficit social security and you put it in contributions. No, ladies and gentlemen, if you want it, you pay it with general taxation. We cannot approve that measure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez i Chamosa. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the budgets that consolidate economic growth and job creation, because Spain is growing and creating jobs, although listening to some seems to bother them. Coming from the Socialist Party seems to me to be a defach, because they did not want to see the crisis at the time and now they do not seem to want to see the recovery either. It is a responsibility, Mrs Chamosa, and an obligation to present these budgets instead of running as did the Socialist Party and Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. [[Applauds]] Like it or not like it, Your Honor, Spain is the country that is growing the most from the whole of the European Union, twice as much as France and Germany and triple as the average of the European Union, and Spain is the country that is creating the most employment from the whole of the European Union. In the last year - Mrs Chamosa has said - more than 500,000 people have found a job. We have already recovered more than a million new members since the worst time of the crisis, more than a million new jobs compared to the 3.5 million people the Socialist Party has sent to unemployment. The reality is that we are emerging from the crisis and we are starting to recover, and that is why we can say that there are already 350,000 fewer unemployed than when the People's Party came to the government at the end of 2011. Pensions are raised again in these budgets. All pensions rise by 0.25 %. It is true that it is the minimum set in the law, but it must be said that there is gain of purchasing power because the August CPI is at -0.4%. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen - it has been sufficiently debated, Mr Picó, with experts and social partners who have appeared in the Toledo Pact Commission - it must be said loud and clear: Pensioners have been increasing purchasing power for several years because their pensions are rising above the CPI and the CPI is contained. Without going further, in the years 2013 and 2014 the pensioners have had 2 billion euros of increase of purchasing power and last year on these dates you said the same about the budgets of the year 2015, that with 0.25 % you were going to lose purchasing power. Nothing further from reality. The CPI is at -0.4% and the rise is at 0.25. They therefore already have €500 million in purchasing power. Tell the pensioners the truth; tell them that if the previous law were applied to them with the CPI we would be harming them and they would be losing purchasing power. Where is the loss of purchasing power? Stop fooling the pensioners. All right, ladies and gentlemen, after how the Socialist Party left this country: in ruin, on the verge of rescue and with 90 billion euros of deficit. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I will tell you one thing, Mrs Chamosa: Lessons in social security and pensions, none, for a simple reason, because you are bad managers and every time you govern you leave Social Security in deficit, in red numbers. That is the big problem that Social Security has: that every time you rule, you leave it in deficit. And lessons on pensions, none, because I remind you that the Socialist Party has been the only party that has frozen pensions in this country, which meant a real loss of purchasing power, because the CPI was at 2.9 % and that led to almost 3 points of loss of purchasing power, that is, the pensioners lost 2 billion euros when you Socialists ruled. There the Toledo Pact was broken, Mrs Chamosa, when you frozen the pensions without consensus and raised the retirement age from sixty-five to sixty-seven years without consensus. The Socialist freeze is the most unfair thing that pensioners have suffered, because, in fact, there were more than EUR 60 billion in the Reserve Fund, a Reserve Fund - all to be said - created by the People's Party with the surpluses of Social Security - seems to be very gratifying for it - so that in times of economic difficulty social contributions and pensions should not be raised. [[Laughter]] The Socialist Party did the opposite: it froze the pensions and did not touch the Reserve Fund. Well, then he touched it; he touched it because he took 15 billion euros, though not to pay pensions, because we still don't know what he spent it on. The Reserve Fund is now being used, indeed, but it is being used for what the law says, to return to pensioners what is theirs, because the Reserve Fund is for pensioners and must be returned to them when they need it most, which is now, so that they will not again be the ones paying for the broken dishes of the crisis. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are budgets that consolidate the separation of sources of funding - which is very important - so that social security does not have to pay what it does not have to pay. To this end, the State transfers €13 billion to Social Security for the non-contributory part, for the social part. This didn't happen before, Your Honor. Before, the State was financed from Social Security, before it was charged improper expenses to Social Security. That is why you have certainly left her in deficit and, as she is in deficit, we have not been able to meet the improvement in widow's pensions or paternity leave, but believe me we will. And I will tell you one thing, Your Honor - you said it in the Commission - if there is any party that has advised Spanish citizens to make private pension plans it has been the Spanish Socialist Workers Party through Minister Solbes or Minister Corbacho. It was certainly a piece of advice that they were given because they already knew how they were going to leave Social Security; well, Social Security and everything else, because on top of it they have no objection to going up here to talk about the pharmaceutical co-op, a co-op that had to be established in order to be able to deal with the 16 billion euros of deficit in the health sector that the Socialist Party left in this country again. I repeat: EUR 16 billion in deficits in the health sector. As regards income from social security, Mrs López i Chamosa, we had a record in August: EUR 9 billion, 1.8 billion more as of July than the previous year. I give you one thing: Social security collection is increasing at a rate of almost 5%, much higher than the rate of growth of the economy and of job creation, which is slightly more than 3%. And I want to tell you to stop being afraid of orphan and widow's pensions because no one is going to take them out of the contributory benefits. That was raised by the opposition spokesmen, and it will have to be discussed in the Toledo Pact, but do not fear the pensioners because it is not true. It is not true what you have said from this rostrum. I conclude with a positive amendment which the other groups have been able to put forward in this procedure. It is an amendment so that women who have worked and been mothers can be increased by 5%, 10% or 15%, depending on whether they have two, three, four or more children. It is important because women have had to stop working to care for their children or have had to use the part-time contract and have shorter contributory careers and 38% lower pensions than men. With this amendment we want to do social justice: we will recognize the women who have worked and been mothers for their contribution to society and the sustainability of the social security system. [[Applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think this amendment is very important. We are talking about demographic contributions: higher pensions for more children, higher pensions for working mothers. This is something that the People's Group has proposed and that will be a reality from January 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Spain. We continue with the debate on Title V and Section 06. Mr Calduch has the floor in defence of amendments, first of all by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group has tabled a number of amendments to Title V, Financial Operations, and Section 06, Public Debt. First of all, I am going to talk about financial operations and then I am going to deal with the issue of public debt. With regard to financial operations, I shall refer to two particular items. One relates to the appropriations of the Official Credit Institute for development promotion operations. At the international level, decades ago a consensus was reached that immigration problems, both legal and illegal, should be resolved not only in destination, seeking the regularization of immigrants, but also in origin; in other words, conditions should be created for the countries of origin of immigrants, whether legal or illegal, to develop sufficiently for the flow to decline. Do you know when the first decade for the development of the United Nations was approved? In 1960. It's rained. That is where, by the way, the famous 1% of gross domestic product was set as development aid. [[The Lord]] Well, in these budgets the ICO appropriations for the Development Fund, Fonprode, are clearly insufficient in my group's view and we have therefore tabled an amendment which increases them by EUR 10 million. What is really serious is not the inadequacy of the allocation for the Development Promotion Fund, but that it states that the unused amounts of this fund from previous years may be used. In other words, not only are more and more ridiculous quantities destined, but they end up not being used. Why is that? The answer is very simple. Because you have put in place a condition that makes it difficult to fulfil that this fund can be allocated for humanitarian aid, that is, for those credits that are given and cannot be refundable by their very nature. That makes the condition of being reimbursable very limited the destination of this fund. As far as financial operations are concerned, another amendment concerns the instrument of encouragement and promotion for the internationalisation of Spanish companies. We propose an increase of 30 million in this instrument. Why? Because we believe that the internationalisation of Spanish companies is a way of guaranteeing the growth of the production of these companies when national demand, as you foresee in your macroeconomic picture, does not grow everything that should grow. What is truly significant is that in our amendment we do not allocate this increase to companies in general, we allocate it to the internationalization of SMEs, because they are the ones that need the help of the State. The large Spanish companies, which are multinational companies, all they need is for the state to support them politically, legally, diplomatically, but not economically. It is precisely small and medium-sized enterprises that need economic aid to internationalise themselves. I shall devote the second part of my speech to the issue of debt. What is the debt problem that you are trying to regularize with these budgets? It means, no more or less, replacing the short-term impact of debt, as did the socialist governments, with a medium- and long-term impact through debt, but they do not address the underlying problem, which is that the convergence criteria of the European Union not only require meeting 3% of the deficit, but also require meeting no more than 60% of the debt. The fact that other countries meeting the deficit target fail to meet the debt target does not mean that we too can do so without failing to meet the convergence criteria. Do you know what the difference is? In that the pressure from the European Union, the German Government and the French Government has been exerted both in the previous government and in this one, to reduce the short-term impact of the deficit because it destabilises the euro. And they continue to compromise with the unsustainable increase in debt. Do you know what's going to happen, and I've already publicly anticipated it to be on the record? That financial turbulence over a debt of almost one hundred percent of the proceeds Title V and Section 06, Gross Domestic Public Debt make the macroeconomic picture you expect for next year uncertain. We cannot base budgets, let alone financial operations, on a macroeconomic picture which, in addition to being uncertain, generates additional costs to those which you have collected in these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Mr Picó has the floor for the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. We are discussing Title V and Section 06 of the State General Budgets Bill, a title on financial operations, but we believe that the debate is broader in terms of the amendment that we have made by my parliamentary group, the Convergence i d'Unió Parliamentary Group, because we are talking about one of the instruments that Spanish cooperation has to carry out and develop its tasks, which is the Cooperation Fund for the Promotion of Development, the so-called Fonprode. The Minister in the first hour of this afternoon was referring to this instrument of development cooperation. You are well aware that the budget allocations for international development cooperation - as I said earlier - have come down very significantly not only since the beginning of this parliamentary term, with the People's Party government, but also at the end of the previous parliamentary term with the Socialist Party government; to be exact, more than 70 % of their budget allocations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and all the members of the Government responsible for this matter, the matter of international development cooperation, told us from the beginning of the legislature that an effort would be made as economic activity was improving in relation to the budget allocations in this area. But in view of these latest General Budgets of the PP Government State, this assertion made at the beginning is far from reality because it continues to make no real effort, no significant effort in this area, and more so when the most direct international reality that affects us both in the south and in the east close to our borders would demand a higher commitment from the Government. The minister was telling us that's what's going on. To be honest, it does not seem sufficient to us, we believe that section 12 should have a much larger increase in budget allocations, especially those that are not reimbursable for international development cooperation. What does the amendment tabled by our parliamentary group, number 3500, propose in this respect? It proposes - as we have requested for non-reimbursable appropriations - an increase in the budget allocations and the limits for the allocation of the budget of the Fundprode. The Fonprode is an instrument that, although not everyone likes it, can be useful for cooperation policies in certain cases. The problem we have had throughout this legislature is that, despite having budget allocations for the Fonprode, they have never been fully implemented, or partially, I would say. We have had regulatory problems, the Fonprode Act has been amended, and the regulation has also been amended, not counting, indeed, the consensus of this House to do so, without seeking that consensus which always combined the policies of international cooperation for development. And despite all that, all the items that have been budgeted in the previous budgets for the Fonprode have not been implemented. What is our amendment proposing? Our amendment proposes an increase, as I said, in terms of international development cooperation, for this instrument as well as cooperation, but our demand is not only related to the increase in these budgetary allocations, but above all to the full implementation of this instrument. As I say, it can be very critical with that instrument, I do not cease to be so in many cases, for example annually with the presentation of the report made to us by the Secretary-General for Cooperation in the Commission for International Development Cooperation, but in some cases it can be a good instrument in development cooperation, as many other administrations and governments in our most direct environment do in most countries of the European Union. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as we have formulated in all the general budgets of this legislature, we call for an increase in the budgetary allocations provided for in the General Budgets of the State for International Development Cooperation, but above all, that the budgetary allocations granted each year should be implemented annually, also in this case for the instrument of the Fonprode. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. Mr Hurtado has the floor on the Socialist Group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group does not only support this draft budget, but also expresses its total rejection of it, and there are many reasons we give: the electoral budget, the hasty budget, the budget which continues to deteriorate the welfare state, the budget for the loss of purchasing power of public employees and pensioners, the budget for the shortage of investments and the poor distribution of funds, the budget which does not recognise the autonomy of the various communities, and the budget which substantially reduces unemployment protection. There are a number of reasons why we reject this draft budget. Title V is one more and a very important reason, public debt. The other day the spokesman for the People's Party told me: but if you said in 2012 that you were worried about the interest rate of the debt, not the public debt. Obviously, in 2012, with 68.5% of GDP in public debt, we did not care about public debt, so we left it, as did the Social Security Reserve Fund. We left it twenty points below the EU average. Now we're worried. Now we're close to 100 percent. We are the seventh country in the European Union with the highest level of public debt. Of course we're worried. Now we're worried, not in 2012. In 2012 we were an example in the European Union. In recent years - I have brought the information - you have increased public debt by EUR 309 billion, 41% more public debt. [[shows a graph]] This problem has been created by you. In addition, by calculating what is owed per inhabitant in this country, the inhabitants of this country we owe an average of 22,400 euros, 6,600 euros per inhabitant more than at the end of 2011. [[shows another graph]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have increased the citizens of this country fifty taxes; you pay 21 billion euros more in taxes, but also 6,600 euros more in future taxes, not present. Because higher debt means we're going to have to pay a lot more taxes in the future. You have increased the taxes of the present and the taxation of citizens in the future. Those are your achievements, that is your merit, that is the problem you have created. All the official bodies already say this, they only have more public debt Greece, Portugal, Ireland - rescued -, Cyprus and then Italy and Belgium. The next position is in Spain; we are not on the European Union average, we are well above the European Union average in debt. That is a problem that you have created and that you do not want to recognize. We have to pay €33.4 billion in financial expenditure, one tenth of the budget, and that despite the fact that the European Central Bank is injecting liquidity everywhere and has substantially lowered interest rates, because we are at the very least in interest rates. Despite this, due to the increase in public debt, there are 33.4 billion euros in financial expenses. You continue to issue almost 326 billion euros of public debt for 2016, not only of replenishment of public debt, but new public debt, continues to increase public debt in this country. That is their policy, a greater debt that they will have to pay future generations and that is the problem arising from the greater public debt. You said that one of the problems in this country was the enormous indebtedness of the private sector, but at the moment it is the enormous indebtedness of the public sector because in this country, in the last four years, there has been a de-alalignment, Mr Matarí - attend to it and listen, that you do not read, but listen at least, Mr Matarí - from the private sector, of course, yes; businesses, 261 billion euros less debt. [[shows a graph]] What does that mean? Of course, banks have stopped lending, negotiating debt to businesses, creating a very important liquidity problem, especially to SMEs, small businesses, which do not obtain financing and have made the effort to de-alter. As far as families are concerned, there are 134 billion euros less debt in the last four years, assuming a leverage of more than 15%, i.e. families have also collaborated in this leverage. But who has absorbed this effort? It has been absorbed by the state, the public debt and you, in addition to injecting €107 billion into the banks, have put the business of the century at hand: you have had 1 % liquidity injections from the European Central Bank, not injecting liquidity into the private sector but investing that money in public debt at 5 %, taking a profit margin of 4 points, receiving in one hand and lending for another to the public sector. That's the business you've facilitated. We therefore bet on a total reform and, of course, a total rejection of Title V because it abounds in the problem which you have created, which this Government has created, of greater indebtedness not only present, but also for future generations. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado. Mr Ordóñez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that if Mr Hurtado had put so much effort into defending what was in some budgets and what was for the economy of a country and had that momentum with Mr Zapatero, they might not have done what we say in Galicia: the failure they did in the Spanish economy. [[Applauds]] In November 2011, the nation's new government is facing a serious economic crisis in Spain, with a public deficit of 9.1%, 90 billion lags, public spending untapped, 5,000,000 unemployed with the socialist government and almost 3.5 million unemployed Spaniards - they are the same people who now call the creation of a million jobs precarious - a risk premium going 500 points, which is 8 billion less to finance public services. It was a country in recession, almost bankrupt and, ladies and gentlemen, now that we are talking about public debt, a country with a public debt of 85 billion euros. Of course, in order to get to its place - uncontrollable and ineffective public spending and public administrations on the brink of chaos - the Socialist Government had repealed the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and approved the consolidated text in which public administrations could already go into deficit. This opened the door to redundancy and budget mismanagement. I do not know whether you, ladies and gentlemen, have forgotten this situation; but I can assure you that the Spanish have not forgotten you. Now you also reject the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution, which under the 2007 Stability Pact you yourself are proposing in this House and to which 90% of it is voting, including Mr Pedro Sánchez. Now they intend to repeal it because they intend to change the rules of the game and want to return to the broad sleeve and chaos in the public accounts. History tells us that every time the left passes through the government the People's Party has to come to solve the chaos and crisis it leaves. It happened in 1994, when they hit the record of 16 % to 24 %, more than 3 million people unemployed. But you are certainly outnumbered in 2011, with your good work in this field hitting your own record: 5.3 million people in unemployment; 3.4 million in the same legislature. No one beats them. The destruction of employment is, ladies and gentlemen, its specialty. And do you remember what they said when the People's Party warned you that we were wrong, that we were going into recession? I'm sure they remember. They called us anti-patriots. And I ask you, who is an anti-patriot? Who, without being responsible for government, warns of the danger or those who, bearing the responsibility of government and therefore being the most responsible, cross hands and allow millions of Spaniards to go to unemployment, the economy to sink, we enter into recession and Spain to become the major economic problem in Europe as a whole? I leave the answer to you; the Spaniards issued it as early as November 2011. And what is the situation now, four years later, with the government of Mariano Rajoy? Spain is growing at 3.5%; twice as much as Germany, triple as France and seven times as much as Italy. Have you heard that the International Monetary Fund has placed Spain at the head of growth in the euro area for 2015 and 2016? Have you read the reports of Santander, CataloniaCaixa, Funcas, Intermoney and international and media agencies? Even in the face of high unemployment and high public debt. The reason is that Spain now has prestige, has a strong growth economy and is therefore a solvent country that generates confidence, which is half of the success in the economy. We are not going to ask the opposition to applaud, but to help or at least not to keep putting sticks on the wheels, because they do not go against this government, they go against the Spaniards and their permanent effort and sacrifice to improve their level of well-being. [[Applauds]] Indeed, public debt has increased from 69% to 97% of GDP, and the causes are known to you, among other reasons, because the Socialist Government, Mr Hurtado, increased it by EUR 35 billion. Reasons for the increase in debt. First of all, to be able to finance us. As if it could not be financed a country from which investors were escaping and in which markets did not trust? Does a risk premium that exceeds 500 points not reflect a lack of stability and credibility of a country's economy? Secondly, because it was necessary to pay the bills that the previous Government left unpaid. These are commercial invoices and those other obligations recognized and outstanding, 261,000 suppliers, more than nine million invoices that thanks to the action of the Government were able to pay the Autonomous Communities and local entities with the Payment Fund to suppliers and which also avoided the closure of thousands of businesses and self-governments. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the payment of health bills, education bills, social benefits. In short, maintaining the welfare state that you had put at serious risk. We're talking about almost half a million jobs saved. The same is true of the FLA, which, with €62.8 billion, also allows the autonomous communities to meet the maturity of their debt, by the way, rescue instruments that deliver more than 40 billion to the Community of Catalonia for the payment of the public services that the Catalans deserve and that the autonomous government was unable to maintain. They now ask for another 10 billion while they continue with the canteen that Spain steals them; community, moreover, that between 2015 and 2016 thus saved 2,2 billion euros in the payment of interest. The third reason for the increase in debt is the consolidation of the financial system, the necessary use of the MEDE to heal and recapitalise the banking sector, which accounted for 3.8 debt points. It has been EUR 40 billion that has saved not the bankers, as the left tortically says, but the depositors, the savings of the citizens and the small investors. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, has the Socialist Government given EUR 30 billion to the bank to save or make more rich or rich to bank advisors? To the left has always been recognized its capacity for propaganda and demagogy - they are unique - not virtue and responsibility in good governance. [[Applauds]] I ask you, what do you think, what is your opinion when, with the Socialist Group's favourable vote, a rescue is approved, a delivery of EUR 25 billion to Greece to save the banks? Are we talking, as you say when you refer to the People's Party, about friend capitalism, or are we talking about solidarity? I think it's as you say in every case. They therefore lack moral authority to criticise an increase in debt that made it possible to strengthen and consolidate the current economic growth, as well as the other EUR 24 billion in electricity tariff deficits that needed to be addressed. And I remind you that the increase in electricity during your term of office was 70 %. Solidarity with those countries that had to be rescued also affected this increase in debt: Greece, Ireland and Portugal, which accounted for 2.1 points of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain does have a high debt, 97%, as does the United Kingdom, 90%; France, 95%; Italy, 102%; the United States, 103%, but Spain is proving that it has competitiveness, that it has saving capacity and, therefore, also has the capacity to reduce its debt as it will in 2016. For this there is no other secret than economic growth. Mr. Hurtado, credit is growing right now. You should be informed when you come up to this rostrum to speak about what is happening in the banking sector. Housing credit is growing by 71%, consumer credit by 55% annually and SMEs by 25%.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u96	Mr. Ordóñez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u97	I'm done, Mr. President. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a path of hope that has led the government of Mariano Rajoy, but fundamentally the one that has opened up the effort, sacrifice, treasure and capacity of the citizens of this great country called Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Ordóñez. We moved on to the debate on Title VI. We support the amendments by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy. Mr Calduch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this paragraph the amendments proposed by our group are two very clear lines. On the one hand, it is about strengthening the competitiveness of our companies, improving the conditions under which companies operate and at the same time ensuring an improvement in budgets, especially through expenditure. That is why we have proposed that we should gradually simplify or eliminate subsidies and subsidies which, at the moment, are excessive in our view in corporate tax, such as 60% reduction in intangible active income. On the other hand, on the basis of that idea which I have already pointed out and reiterated to do a job of Title VI redistribution of wealth, we also propose to increase the minimum exempt from the IRPF to 14,000 euros; that is, to leave exempt from the IRPF to the milleurists, employed persons and public officials, who usually charge for fourteen pay. But the real debate is not limited to amendments affecting the budget. The real debate has to do with something that has systematically been laminated during this parliamentary term and whose final exponent is the reform of the General Tax Law, which we will have the opportunity to discuss in the coming days. This is the growing legal insecurity in which citizens, taxpayers, and above all - and most worrying - are being left, within this legal insecurity, the defencelessness that will be brought about by tax legislative reforms. Our parliamentary group believes that, in addition to the specific amendments to these budgets which I have just pointed out, the Government has carried out a systematic policy in which the taxpayer has ceased to be a citizen to become a subject, not of the State, but of the Ministry of Finance. It is the almighty Ministry of Finance that has dictated in the processing of these budgets, which are in which I have participated, what was accepted and what was not accepted; that is, almost nothing was accepted, of course nothing proposed by the opposition parties, and only some of the proposals of the Group of the People's Party itself. In short, what we denounce here with our amendments are not just budgetary changes but the fiscal policy that this government has carried out during this legislature and which translates into more legal insecurity and defencelessness in tax rules. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió, Mr Picó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. The Convergence i d'Unió Parliamentary Group has tabled a few amendments to Title VII of the tax rules. The end of the legislature is the time to take stock of the fiscal policy carried out by the People's Party Government over the past four years. We believe that the right time to do so is in the title on tax rules, in addition to tomorrow, when the Minister of Finance and Public Administration, Mr Montoro, is here in his section. It is in the last four years that a tax reform has been adopted only with the support of the People's Parliamentary Group and where there has been a tax policy that has led to a widespread increase in rates in many taxes. Remember the increase in personal income tax, the increase in corporation tax, the increase in value added tax or the increase in excise duty, to name but a few. There have been increases in a large majority of taxes, and they are also taxes that have a very direct impact on citizens' day-to-day lives. This fiscal policy has not sufficiently helped economic recovery, it has not sufficiently helped job creation and it has finally meant an increase in revenue only for the general government of the State, and I say only because for the rest of the public administrations there has been no increase. The Government should have shared that increase in tax collection, and it has not. This is a complaint that my parliamentary group has repeatedly expressed in this rostrum. Therefore, during this legislature we have not shared the fiscal policy that the Government has developed; a fiscal policy that has negatively affected families, middle classes, self-employed workers and small and medium-sized enterprises; a fiscal policy that has burdened the increase in collection in the middle classes and in economic sectors that also had very important potential to support economic recovery and job creation. We recognise, for example, that the cultural sector is undoubtedly a very important sector in our economy and with the increase in VAT it has been severely damaged, for example, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the tax-type amendments that we have made, I have to say that some are directed to this Title VI of the State General Budgets Act and it is a package of amendments that proposes very concrete changes, particularly in the income tax on natural persons, such as updating the minimum per descendant, updating the minimum per ascendant or improving the minimum per descendant, among other amendments. Many other amendments that my group has tabled have been included through the proposals for new final provisions to the State General Budgets Act, which we will be discussing at the moment. Therefore, our parliamentary group is negatively appreciating this legislature in the area of taxation. There has been an increase in fiscal pressure which has mainly fallen in the middle classes and in productive sectors which could have encouraged economic recovery and job creation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. Position-fixing turn. Firstly, for the Socialist Group, Mrs Vázquez Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u103	Thank you, President. To be practically finalizing the debate on the fifth budgets of a legislature in the first half of September of an election year is only understood if the party that is presenting them hopes to lose the elections and wants to leave as tight as possible the model of country that has been forming during the four years of government. This Government of the People's Party leaves the country in which the inequalities of all OECD countries have grown the most, where the gap between rich and poor has grown the most; it leaves a sub-champion country of the European Union in child poverty; a country in which cuts in rights and freedoms have been the hallmark of the Government's identity. All this will be consolidated with these budgets, which will be approved with the only votes of the People's Group and all votes against the rest of the parliamentary arc. However, the Government, which set out other goals when it arrived, has failed to meet some of the most important objectives. On his electoral programme, in November 2011, he said that the unemployment rate left by the Socialist Government would be immediately lowered. But it came 2012 and the rate was rising, just like in 2013. Already entering the year 2015, when the tail winds blow in favor and the economy grows, some employment begins to be created. The rate may be the same as that left by the Socialist Government, but they know that in terms of employment and number of hours worked it leaves a much worse situation, apart from leaving unemployment coverage much lower. As far as the issues of finance are concerned, it has never met the deficit target, despite the relaxation that Europe has granted it and despite the brutal cuts. By entering into taxation, the Government of the People's Party is also not effective in collecting taxes. Now he says he's collecting more than last year, but if you look at the reports published by the same Ministry of Finance, you'll see that we're at the 2008 level. That is, in a year where the growth rate is 3.3% less than in 2008, when there was a growth rate of 1%. If we look at the data for the month of July, in 2008 €105.8 billion were collected and in 2015 104.098 have been collected. That is, we are now at the level of 2008, and boasting. Over the course of the legislature, taxes have been raised and lowered according to electoral times. In the People's Party's government program, as much has been repeated and must continue to be repeated, a tax reduction was promised, but nothing more has power in hand - and citizens will never have felt so betrayed by a party - all taxes rose, and by the end of 2014, to the point of entering an electoral year, taxes were lowered. Which ones are the lowest? Those of the highest incomes and those of the big companies. This is because what this government really knows how to do is cut back, so it has also cut back on the progressive tax system. In the IRPF the most benefited are those who earn from 100,000 euros, the milleurists do not notice it, and in the tax on companies who notice it the most are the big companies, to which they lower 5 points the general rate. Ladies and gentlemen, although we know that none will be approved, we are re-submitting amendments to the government's tax policy, and I will explain some of them even though they are very similar to those of the previous budget because they never respond to the opposition's amendments. We are introducing amendments to increase the IRPF's tranches and increase them from 5 to 7 so that they can pay higher incomes more; to recover the overall rate of 30% in corporate tax by establishing a 15% floor; to introduce a capital tax on wealth, because they have always criticized the removal of the property tax, but they have made a tax reform and almost still do not tax the large assets, the Sicav, the investment funds, etc. We ask once again to reduce cultural VAT to 5%, as is the case in other countries of the European Union, and to recover the super-reduced VAT on school materials, which has been holding 17 climbing points for a few years. This about increasing culture and education says a lot about the government that we still have. And, of course, we are proposing to increase the resources of the Tax Agency to combat tax fraud. The PP has never had this among its priorities, and shows it with facts. Since he arrived in the Government, the number of people working at the Tax Agency has decreased not by 100 or 200, but by almost 3,000. They talk about 50 per cent replacement rates, but in the past year, with that replacement rate, 626 people have fallen. The OECD has drawn our attention because we have very little resources for tax collection. I do not have time to talk about other amendments, but I will tell you that this budget debate, which was always the most important, has become the most sterile debate of the year. The budget debate in this legislature is the worst in all respects: the worst as a debate, the worst in accepting amendments and, in the worst sense of the word, as I said, is a pure process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. For the People's Group, Mrs Madrazo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vázquez, the truth is that you have to have a lot of value to belong to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and come out here to talk about unemployment figures, public deficits... [[Protests.-Several Members: Please, but what do you say!-Applause]] It's absolutely amazing.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u106	I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u107	The Government is actually debating today the last budgets of this legislature and comes with the satisfaction of the duties well done and of the duty fulfilled, because these budgets reflect a situation that has nothing to do with what we inherit at the beginning of the legislature. The citizens, even if you continue to deny that economic recovery, are perceiving it. We have talked about many figures throughout this debate: they are consuming more, they are investing more, they are buying more vehicles, they are exporting more, tourism has increased. That's numbers and they're real. And above all, Mrs Vázquez, we are creating jobs. Between 2014 and 2015, a million Spaniards will be able to have employment opportunities and that is also hope for those who have not achieved it so far, who know that the People's Party and this government will continue to work in that direction. Therefore, lessons on employment figures and public deficit figures, none coming from the Socialist Party. In fiscal matters, which is what we are discussing right now, we also come up with the duties that have been done. Why? Because we have made a tax reform that, although they deny it too, is a fair and equitable tax reform. Taxes have been lowered on citizens, businesses, pensioners, civil servants, all Spaniards, who will pay less taxes than with the Zapatero Government. But we have also lowered taxes and recovered in this legislature half of the tax collection that was lost with the Socialist Government, and that tax collection serves us to sustain our welfare state, to pay our health, our education and our social services, which were in danger with the Socialist Government. Therefore, with the Government of the People's Party, less taxes and more collection, because that is the result of the dynamism of our economy and the creation of employment. The amendments tabled by the opposition groups to Title VI are once again repeated year after year and which we have discussed in this House in numerous initiatives which refer to tax matters. They again raise a tax on big fortunes, a tax on financial transactions, increase corporation tax again, increase the fees of the IRPF and add the last occurrence of Mr Sánchez, which is that of a cultural VAT of 5%. I have to tell you, they look very low on solvents, and they're certainly fireworks. The Socialist Party, in fiscal matters, has established itself in fiscal populism and is not up to a party that aspires to be an alternative government. I do not know if the statistics of the IRPF of the Tax Agency have been studied. I invite you to do so because they are very revealing. Do you know that only 0.3% of taxpayers report income above EUR 150,000? Do you intend to maintain our welfare state with 0.3% of taxpayers? The first thing that has to be a fiscal system, in addition to being fair and equitable, is sufficient, it has to raise sufficient resources to finance our welfare state. The financial transaction tax again. Do you want to be in Europe or not? Because the financial transaction tax knows very well that it must be dealt with in a joint and harmonised way and within the European Union because capital has much more mobility than the labour factor and only a fiscal harmonisation that serious such transactions will be effective. The paradigm of demagogy is what I said before, Mr Sánchez's last occurrence, to apply a 5% cultural VAT. Do you know why this is an occurrence? Because this would mean increasing the VAT rate of 4 % by which books are taxed. There can be only two reduced rates under Community law, and these two reduced rates in Spain are 10% and 4%, and the books, newspapers and magazines are in this super-reduced rate and with their proposal they would pay more VAT. Therefore, the Socialist Party lacks seriousness and rigour in proposing a fiscal alternative, but above all it lacks credibility, because they left us a painful inheritance in this matter, with a tax collection loss of 70 billion euros, endangering the sustainability of our welfare state. The Socialist Party assures us in its amendments that it could achieve up to EUR 11 billion by raising taxes on citizens and businesses, and we do not want to raise taxes on citizens and businesses because this policy of lowering taxes is allowing us to grow and create jobs. Our economy grows at a rate of more than 3%, we will create more than a million jobs between 2014 and 2015 and we can also finish the legislature by injecting into the pockets of families and businesses €9 billion that are allowing us to increase consumption, investment and job creation, returning to that virtuous circle from which the socialist government drew us. Therefore, there are two realities in which you cannot interfere in denying over and over again, settled in that negationism that prevents you from recognizing the reality to escape a truth that is uncomfortable to you, and it is the absolute failure of your economic management, of your management of employment every time you have ruled. These two realities are: that there is a very strong economic recovery in Spain that is reaching families and that is real, and the second reality is that this government is fighting very effectively against tax fraud and that is why tax collection increases of more than 6% are being achieved through the Tax Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already told you in the Commission, our political DNA is continuing to lower taxes to further stimulate economic activity and employment; in yours it seems to be raising taxes and then squandering on unproductive expenditure. We will therefore vote against its amendments to Title VI, because the government's commitment to these general budgets for 2016 is to continue to consolidate growth and job creation so that all Spaniards can continue to be taxed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs Madrazo. Title VII. Defence of amendments. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one is hiding the position of our parliamentary group and our party with regard to the autonomous system of our country and the need, now urgently with the Catalan secessionist tendencies, to reform the Constitution by establishing a federal regime that really guarantees the equality of all citizens, reside where they reside. I am doing this initial reflection because it explains some of the amendments we have tabled in Title VII. Our group is in favour of reforming the autonomous financing system, at least as long as the autonomous regime is maintained and it is not constitutionally changed, for the simple reason that it is not only an unfair system, because it treats citizens unequally according to where they reside, but also because it is a onerous, burdensome system for the tax and tax system of the Spanish State as a whole. That is why we have tabled, as in previous years - and we have been rejected, as in previous years, the governing party - an amendment to delete article 93, where the special tax regimes of the Basque Country and Navarre are established, arguing the historical origins of these tax systems. But we are in the twenty-first century, and what should prevail are not the historical origins, but the principle of equality before the law of all citizens, and the truth is that these tax regimes mean that when the time comes for tax application, citizens living in the Basque Country and Navarre pay less taxes and receive more refunds of taxes that they pay directly or directly. Title VII indirectly through public services than the rest of the citizens of the Spanish State. That is why we advocate the abolition of these tax regimes. I do not expect your honor, who is turning my back on me, to expect you to share my view, but at least to keep the respect and courtesy of Parliament that we all deserve. If you're going to make opposition statements, do them face-to-face. Thank you. We have also tabled an amendment to the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. We clearly oppose the system that this Government has applied to progressively replace the various funds regulated and controlled by budget with a series of extraordinary credits intended to pay bills, bills that were in the drawers, inherited bills, but paid without any prior budgetary control. This Autonomous Liquidity Fund, this Compensation Fund, etc., which has been invented and which has increased and increased so much public debt are being implemented arbitrarily; not discretionaryly, but arbitrarily. Why? Because they are not amounts that come with finalist criteria. It is the autonomous communities that are indebted according to the criteria they want and it is the Government that directly satisfies or endorses the public debt of autonomous communities whose public debt cannot be placed on international markets, which arbitrarily decides what amounts it covers and what amounts it does not. In view of this, we propose, for example, that the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which is finalist, be strengthened. The amounts are earmarked for projects that are budgeted and presented by the Autonomous Communities. And not only do we believe that those funds must be strengthened, but we also need to control them. That is why - and I conclude - we have tabled an amendment to Article 106 to set up a committee of study to oversee and control the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Mr Garzón has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u111	In this connection, my group has tabled only one amendment, specifically to Article 99, relating to territorial financing, with the financing of municipalities, in the sense that a new fund needs to be added to those municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants with which to compensate for the under-financing that currently exists. Town halls are the public entities closest to the citizenry, those that manage public services that are most related to people's daily lives. We understand that this demand needs to be echoed, and that is why we are submitting this single amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. For the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió, Mr Macias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. We are dealing with the debate on Title VII, territorial bodies. Some Members will probably have thought that I would use this title to respond to some of the opinions, criticisms and reflections, for using nice terms, formulated to the current process that is being lived in Catalonia, but this is not the place. Ladies and gentlemen who want to discuss this with us can do so; Convergence has no problem sharing a coffee to tell you what you want or to hold any debate because the situation deserves it and the rights of the citizens of Catalonia too. I will tell you about the amendments we have made to Title VII and you will see that they relate above all to the existing framework of the so-called territorial authorities, on the one hand, of the local corporations and, on the other, of the autonomous communities. We are going to do so from something that we believe must always be claimed and that we have been claiming for years, in fact not very successfully, that is what is called institutional loyalty, which is that the Government which has the power to issue rules from these Courts through its absolute majority at this time that affects the territorial authorities, if it sets them obligations, also gives them the resources to be able to carry them out. This is institutional loyalty. We and many groups have been denouncing a lack of institutional loyalty for many years, especially in this legislature. I'll give you some examples. The rate of excise duty and VAT is increased and the State remains 100 per cent of this collection. [[we have to collect more]] It is not distributed on the basis of the agreement and the institutional loyalty framework: excise duties, 58% communities, the rest of the state; VAT, half and half... No, no! The state stays the whole, gives them nothing. But it is also that when communities and municipalities have to provide services, if the tax rate of VAT is raised they have to pay it and it is a cost to communities or municipalities since they are the final consumer. What are we doing? The State collects more but leaves less to the territorial authorities to provide services. I mean, the state says: since there's no money, I collect more, but you have to do the same with less money because I'm the first one to keep part of this money. This is a deep disloyalty. We have told Minister Montoro as active and passive and there is no way. What we do in our amendment is to say: let us apply institutional or constitutional loyalty, if you will. If you raise VAT and this has a negative impact on local authorities or communities, give them these resources, which have a neutral effect at least. This is one of the elements that we place in this field, and I will give you an example of a completely different field. We tabled an amendment to Rule 96 which we could have tabled in so many articles, but we particularly like it. For example, the State makes some subsidies on transport mobility issues conditional on territorial authorities, basically municipalities, having sustainable mobility plans that should refer to the Spanish strategy of sustainable mobility; however, this is not the competence of the State, because the competences of sustainable mobility, as the most esteemed Constitutional Court has poured into several judgments, are the competences of the autonomous communities. Why, in a matter clearly of autonomous competence, do the municipalities force something that ends up being bureaucratic, to have to make a new plan that responds to something that the State is implementing not on the basis of competences it has but on the basis of desires? This, ladies and gentlemen, is another example of institutional disloyalty and I therefore very much like to table amendments in order to correct these issues. Finally, another of our amendments coincides with an amendment by the Group of the Plural Left, but we do not say redo, but maintain a fund that we created at the time under a pact with the Socialist Party, a special funding fund for municipalities with a population of less than 20,000 inhabitants, why? It seems logical to realize that these municipalities are having a very bad time, that we have to meet first-class social needs, and it would also seem logical that with the endowment we could, with some endowment, have special attention to these municipalities, which would mean having a special sensitivity to the needs of the citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr Hurtado has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Nor are we going to support Title VII. We have tabled a number of amendments from the Socialist Group and we are not going to support either the territorial authorities' approach or the regulatory development in the draft budgets. First issue: Unattainable public deficit targets. We have repeatedly denounced that the President of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority was unable to appear in the presentation of this draft budget. We have wanted it, we have requested it, we have demanded it; total and absolute refusal. And why? Obviously because the president of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority has already been appointed and has said that the public deficit targets set for the autonomous communities are unattainable. As a button shows: 2014, target, 1%; they only met three communities, four of which doubled the 1% targets. In 2015, 0.7%; at present there are four autonomous communities that have doubled the 0.7% target, already accounting for 1.4% of the public deficit. In spite of that, the deficit stability target you set for the autonomous communities for 2016 is 0.3%. That's why they didn't want the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority to appear, because they're sick of saying it: unattainable goals. That's right, the state, the central government, an objective of 2.2% by 2016. What a difference!, right?, from 0,3 to 2,2 %. Constraints for the Autonomous Communities, because what you intend to do is to slim down the welfare state of the services provided by the Autonomous Communities, setting them unattainable public deficit targets, setting minimum spending ceilings, minimum spending ceiling increases. Obviously, everything to restrict credits in health, education, social services, dependency, which is what you are interested in going down; you want to go down the resources that the autonomous communities can devote to then say that there is waiting list in the Unit Law, obviously. If resources cannot be increased, you are forcing the autonomous communities to amortize bank debt. The effort is being made by you to reduce the welfare state and benefit the banks. Because the autonomous communities are going to have to devote a wide margin of handover to amortizing debt. Case of Andalusia, Mr Matarí - you and I are Andalusian -, delivery to account for next year 1.7 billion euros more than the settlement of 2014 and 3.1% of the increase of delivery to account. Well, almost 600 million go into the deficit, which is reduced from 0.7 % to 0.3%, i.e. from 1.7 billion, 600 million can no longer be used. In addition, they have reduced the spending ceiling to 1.2%, which means that 650 million more cannot be used either. Therefore, there will be no choice but to use a third party to amortize debt to banks. Banks are delighted with their policy, with the restrictions they are imposing on autonomous communities and local authorities. Stability is therefore an unattainable goal. Total and absolute rejection. A goal that is unattainable unmotive, unincentive. Secondly, the funding system is repeated. You have said: but if that were approved by you!, but it is that you have had four years to change it and you have not had the nose to do so. If you said it was so bad, why haven't you changed it in four years? Time they've had, five budgets. For 2016 the same funding system. Mr Matarí, the funding system may not be good, but you are applying it even worse. Interterritorial compensation fund, very important to balance the development of the different autonomous communities, frozen: 435 million euros for four years and this year 1.2 million euros less. Interterritorial Clearing Fund, key. For example, Mr Matarí, for Andalusia EUR 265 million in the last government of Zapatero and EUR 116 million less in the draft budgets for 2016. That is the policy of balance, of trying to help the autonomous communities and territories that need support to balance the territorial development of this country that you are carrying out. You are unable to comply with the additional provisions of the statutes: six autonomous statutes, Andalusia, Catalonia, Aragon, Castile and Lion, Balearic Islands, Extremadura. That is institutional disloyalty because the statutes have been adopted here. Not to apply the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy is meaning for Andalusia a decrease of 2.5 billion euros. We cannot agree that we will have to go to the courts insistently to demand those remedies that are of justice, because they are law. You're breaking the law. In addition to institutional disloyalty, they are in breach of the rules that have been established in this Parliament. Therefore, our total rejection. We have included an amendment to change the regulation of the Inter-Territorial Compensation Fund and create two compensation funds, amending Articles 2 and 6.2 of the Law that regulates it; one of EUR 2,008 million for investments of the State itself and for the distribution of these investments in the various territories and another of EUR 648 million for transfers to the autonomous communities for investments in development, in equilibrium, in infrastructure. We therefore reject Title VII as well, one more reason to reject this draft electoral budget, which is clearly electoral. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u116	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Mr Matarí has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. A preliminary question. I think you hear well, don't you, Mr. President? It's either a very strong intervention or a bad hearing, but I think it sounds pretty good and you don't have to shout, Mr Hurtado. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the responsible decision of the government to present these budgets for approval is a very positive decision for the autonomous communities and local entities because they will be able to draw up their budgets knowing the transfers they will receive in 2016. These transfers are going to amount to EUR 11 billion more for our territorial administrations; EUR 11 billion more, which without these budgets they would not receive. Ladies and gentlemen, the General Budgets of the State for 2016 reflect the largest increase that has occurred in this legislature in resources earmarked for the financing of territorial entities, which will undoubtedly improve the financing of fundamental public services: health, education, social services, dependency, which are provided by autonomous communities and by local entities and to which 80% of their budget is devoted; also, Mr Hurtado, of course, so that they can meet their deficit targets, and they will be able to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, the commitment of the majority of the autonomous communities and of the majority of the local authorities has been fundamental in these four years to clean up public accounts, to reduce the deficit and to be able to create employment, which is growing, and for something very important: to guarantee fundamental public services after a parliamentary term - the last socialist - in which 3.5 million jobs were lost and the welfare system of our country, Mr Hurtado, was seriously put at risk. Therefore, improving - as has been done for the past four years and as is done in this project - the financing and liquidity of territorial administrations has been a priority for the Government of the People's Party. The existing financing systems have been implemented and measures and liquidity mechanisms amounting to 184 billion have been approved, saving 23 billion euros for autonomous communities and municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, there were communities that could not be financed, Catalonia, for example. When the People's Party came to the government, the Generalitat was financed at 7.7%; afterwards, it could not be financed because it had no access to credit by having the markets closed and today it is financed at zero percent thanks to the Government of Spain, saving 8,171 million euros. Institutional loyalty, Mr. Macias. [[Applauds]] In four years, Mr Macias - institutional loyalty -, EUR 50 billion of funding for Spanish citizens living in Catalonia to continue to receive health care, education, social services, etc. Institutional loyalty. Let's see if you apply it, Mr. Macias. That 184 billion of liquidity to which I have referred has made it possible to sustain and make viable our welfare system because, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Calduch, these resources have for the most part been devoted to financing the fundamental public services provided by the autonomous communities and the municipalities, no matter how much you say no. In view of all this, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is logical to think that our position will be contrary to the amendments tabled. You present the same amendments as in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 without taking into account at any time that in these four years the financing and liquidity of territorial administrations has substantially improved. The resources budgeted in 2016 represent 12% more than the resources allocated in the last socialist budget of 2011. In our view, therefore, neither special funds nor resources for provincial plans nor increases in subsidies or new transfers are justified for a very simple reason: because the financing of municipalities and parliaments has increased, ladies and gentlemen, by 24% over the past four years, from EUR 14,456 million in the last socialist budget of 2011 to EUR 17,756 million in this 2016 project; that is, EUR 3,3 billion more. In Andalusia, Mr Hurtado, because he so much likes to talk about Andalusia, for example, the share in the income of the state of the Andalusian municipalities has increased from 1,725 million to 2,276 million: 32 % more, Mr Hurtado. You, I insist, present the amendments without taking account of this development, I sincerely believe that because neither are the budgets read, Mr Hurtado. Nor is it justified, and we have said so in the various debates of different years, to the amendments of supposed debts arising from the statutes of autonomy, as the Constitutional Court says. This year, moreover, there is a ruling of the National Court which expressly states that it rejects that the Government of Spain is obliged to pay the Generalitat de Catalunya 750 million euros that they claimed in compliance with the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy. The debt does not exist, ladies and gentlemen, and the sentences must be complied with. To finish this intervention - which Mr Hurtado likes so much and is the last year of this legislature -, the same old story: you come here and give the same answer as the Government of the Andalusian Board, an answer always full of victimism, complaint, irresponsibility and above all falsehood after falsehood. Andalusia, as I always say to you too, Mr Hurtado, is the autonomous community that receives the greatest investment from the General Budgets of the State in both percentage and absolute terms. Andalusia is the community that receives the most territorial financing, the second, 17 billion euros, an increase of 11% by 2016, to which we must add 512 million savings by the measures of the government. Some mechanisms by which Andalusia has received in four years 28 billion euros and saved 4 billion euros. Just that amount that the Andalusian Board now says has stopped entering through the funding model. And indeed, who approved that model, Mr Hurtado? It is that you want to forget it, but I have to repeat it, it is that you, the Socialist Government, approved it, with the support of the communities governed by the Socialist Party and, by the way, with the President of the Board already being part of the Government of the Andalusian Board. And you talk about courts. If you have lost the resources of 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and also the resource of the delivery on account of 2013! You've lost all resources! Therefore, Mr Hurtado, tell the truth: they resort and lose because the courts give reason to the Spanish Government. [[Rumors]] And today you have not spoken, you have forgotten, about something you said in the Commission, about an employment plan for Andalusia, about an amendment of EUR 200 million. And you did not speak here today because, I told you in the Commission, it is precisely the amount that you have stopped investing in 2012 and 2013 and that you have had to return to the Ministry of Employment for your absolute inability to deal with the Andalusian unemployed and to invest that 200 million euros. [[Applauds]] And you referred to Mr Rodríguez Zapatero as an example. As an example of what? Of paying the historical debt with solars, 784 million on 22 farms that are still unsold and that only cost the Andalusians? Mr. Hurtado, a little more memory and a little more prudence. I'm done, Mr. President. Consolidating economic recovery, boosting growth and job creation is the objective of this budget proposal for 2016. And in order to help achieve this, the improvement in the financing and liquidity of autonomous communities and municipalities is essential and, in our view, this budget must be approved. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Matarí. Finally, we move on to the debate on the additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions and annexes. In defence of amendments, Mr Quevedo has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the particular structure of this debate, I must start by saying that I support the set of amendments put forward by the members of the Joint Parliamentary Group in this paragraph. I also have to say that it is impossible to raise this without expressing a first precaution. We strongly and harshly advocate an amendment to all these General State Budgets and, as it is good that this is not forgotten, we find ourselves under an obligation to remember it. We make amendments because we believe that it is our obligation, partial amendments, in this case to the joint text, etc., but it must be perfectly clear that we are radically opposed to the content of these budgets, to the preferably ideological line that characterizes them - as has happened since the beginning of this parliamentary term - and that it has demonstrated its ineffectiveness in resolving the problems of the majority of citizens. Moreover, with a special gravity and it is that putting forward in August a draft General State Budgets is not a problem because it is a traditionally holiday period, it is a problem because it is impossible to use certain magnitudes when formulating the budget scenario. No one knows what the final collection of the main budgetary concepts will be. So we are faced with budgets that will probably be false of all falsehood because they will not coincide with reality, and someone will have to modify them as soon as - let's hope - things change from the next general election. It is clear that in this budget there is a reading of the reality which is exclusive to the person who formulates it. That is why he deserved the absolute rejection of almost all the groups in the House, and that is something that should also be remembered. With regard to the heading we are dealing with, we canarian nationalists have tabled twenty-four amendments because, in general, these headings contain some of the issues that have been denied to the Canary Islands and which we consider to be part of our right, our responsibilities and our economic and fiscal acquis. I cannot go into these twenty-four amendments which range from the need to avoid the emptying of qualified teaching staff in the Canarian universities, to the need to take care of the Posei programmes - there is everything here - but I did want to focus on some issues that affect a fundamental problem that has raised our land - like the whole Spanish State only a little more - which is the question of employment. Canary Islands currently has an unemployment rate Additional provisions, Transitions, Derogations and Finals, and Annexes over 30%; a dramatic figure surpassed only by another community in Spain and which, associated with the use of social indicators of poverty, social exclusion, youth unemployment and child poverty, gives a panorama in which there is no need to gloat for a minute; what needs to be done is to intervene. With our amendment to the amendment to the fifty-ninth additional provision, we have to remember that there were two comprehensive employment plans for the Canary Islands. On the one hand, a comprehensive employment plan of EUR 42 million as defined in the Employment Act 56/2003, which was liquidated with a slow but secure process until you have managed to leave this item at zero when we are in absolutely dramatic employment indicators, and I assure you that it is noted, although I already know that the argument of some minister is that that was not really useful at all. On the other hand, a comprehensive employment plan linked to education and culture, with a budget of €40 million. We therefore had EUR 82 million to intervene in a matter in which, if it makes no sense to intervene in formulations of comprehensive employment plans, it will make sense to do so with which it is falling. We once again insist that it is unacceptable that these amounts have been stolen from us just when things were getting worse. In the face of the risk of being accused of victimists, I challenge anyone who is needed to discuss the data, because if it suits them the accusation of victimism could be accepted; if not, it is simply unacceptable. The other issue is related to regular passenger air transport services between the Canary Islands - this also affects Balearic Islands, Ceuta and Melilla - and the rest of the Spanish State. They know that here there is 50% of the rate that is acceptable. However, there is one element that we are extremely concerned about and after seeing the actions of the Ministry of Development, especially in the first moments, we cannot let it pass, and it is that in the current text the ministry is empowered to set a maximum rate of subsidy, that is, that by a simple ministerial order in periods to be possible of general waste, as in those of the state and community holidays, we can modify this 50%. We have to remember that you've already tried to do it. For that reason, we cannot understand why it is not clearly said that this bonus would have an indefinite effect. I have to remember that this is not a gift, but to place those communities with objective problems related to their geographical location on the average of the rest of the communities of the Spanish State, not the best. I know that there are ladies and gentlemen who confuse the good climate with the good social and working conditions, but that nature has endowed us with a great climate does not mean that there is not a lot of people going through it very badly. If no bonuses of this nature are applied, what is prevented is the right to connectivity of many canaries, and above all of those who are in worse condition. I'm just finishing up, because Mr. President is already warning me. We are going to ask you for something simple, and it is an addendum amendment which states that, for all purposes, the status of resident in the Canarian Community will be credited with the national identity document. I do not know if you are aware of the general outrage that has caused in the Canary Islands that a lot of people, my co-workers and some other colleagues I see out there and who I take advantage of to greet them, have had to be walking around with a little paper at the Canary airports because someone from the Ministry of Development said that there was no know what terroristly corrupt plot they were stealing the money from the State. The result has been to have offended a lot of people who have not been satisfied with their national identity document to move within the territory of the State. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your benevolence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. For the Vasco PNV Group, Mr Azpiazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group has tabled five amendments to this section, and I will try to explain them as briefly as possible. The first of the amendments is 237 and proposes an amendment to the first additional provision regulating the granting of subsidies and agreements with the Autonomous Communities. The amendment incorporates a new paragraph six into this additional provision to include a standard safeguard clause, which we usually introduce and which already exists in most economic laws; it is the foral clause that is established under the foral regime of application in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country: as stated in this provision, 'it shall be understood without prejudice to the provisions of the Law on Economic Concert'... It is therefore a formal clause that we believe should be included in this provision. Amendment No 238 sets out a new additional provision, the 16th bis, establishing the foral regime of the autonomous police of the Basque Country or the Ertzaintza to regulate the matter of public offers of employment. When I referred in the previous speech to Amendment No 236 I called for respect for the statutory framework, respect for what is laid down in the Statute of Autonomy in Article 17 thereof and also respect for what is agreed within the framework of the Security Board as regards the offer of employment for Ertzaintza. With this additional provision there would be no doubt that this article of the statute, which is what we demand, would be respected. We do not understand that the Statute of Self-Government is not respected and that, through the Budget Act, the Ertzaintza is prevented from having the number of troops agreed upon on that board. Amendment No 239 proposes an amendment to amend a question which is quite complicated, from the technical point of view, but which is clear once the agreement of the Joint Committee on the transfer of active employment policies to the Basque Country has been discussed. It is a technical correction, and in the event that this issue is not corrected in the budget law it will have to be corrected, logically, when the quota is cleared with the State; it will have to be reduced by 6.24% of that amount at state level, etc. This correction can be made at this time and not wait for the settlement of the quota to have the matter resolved. Amendment 241 - which is the last - makes a new final third bis provision amending the General Subsidies Act. For what? In the same way that I referred to earlier in another amendment, it is for this General Subsidy Act also to include the outlaw clause relating to the Basque Country, which is not covered by this law and is covered by other laws of an economic and fiscal nature. In this way, it would be much more respectful of the spirit of the clause and these regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this paragraph of additional, final, transitional provisions, and so on, our parliamentary group has tabled a significant number of amendments, in some cases, to ensure that commitments made in previous legislation are made and that they have not been implemented throughout the whole legislature, but in most cases to improve social policies and social benefits. For example, in the amendment to the additional 40th provision, we propose an increase of $12 million in the Support Fund for the Promotion and Development of Infrastructure and Services of the Self-Government and Care Unit System. It is true that the amount allocated to care for dependency has increased, inter alia, because it has been extended to a wider number of beneficiaries; instead, the share of infrastructure, which is needed in many cases to facilitate care for dependents, remains, in our view, too small. The amendment to the sixty-fourth provision - which we had the opportunity to defend before the budgets - is aimed at increasing the inter-professional minimum wage or the public multi-effect income indicator, the famous Iprem, up to 5%. With the amendment to the seventy-first provision, we want to include self-employed and self-employed workers in the training system, guaranteeing them at least 5% of the planned funds. Similarly - as I said earlier - we have introduced some amendment to ensure that what is already legally established is complied with; for example, the amendment to the additional provision seventy-fourth to establish the State agency for the investigation. By the way, there is no direct increase or budget cost, but we think it is time for the additional twelfth provision of the Science, Technology and Innovation Act to be implemented, because if not, we find that legal obligations are being laid down, which no one will subsequently fulfil. From there, we have introduced a significant number of amendments to additional provisions by addition. The first and most relevant of all is the establishment of the national plan against child poverty. Our parliamentary group considers that child poverty is one of the scourges that has left the crisis, one of the scourges that is not being addressed in a specific way, but that affects a particularly vulnerable population, which is the child population. We also propose new additional provisions, such as the one to merge municipalities and dissolve provincial parliaments, to review Bankia's preferential marketing operations, to establish legal provisions to resolve the situation of the small savers affected by the collage of the Philatelic Forum, Afinsa and Art i Natura Gespart, who are nothing less than half a million citizens. We also put forward a new additional provision to harmonize inheritance and donation tax, another characteristic example of how citizens are treated unequally according to the autonomous communities in which they live. In some you pay taxes and in others you don't. Finally, I would like to refer to three additional amendments, two of which concern the State Security Forces and the Armed Forces. The first has to do with matching the salary conditions of the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard with the homologous scales of the autonomous police. This inequality of remuneration, when it is known that the two bodies I have mentioned are the state bodies, is one more example of the affront and disintegration that is slowly occurring through the budget in nothing more and nothing less than the security forces and bodies of the whole state, which is directly untangled by creating these wage inequalities. The other relates to the inclusion in the regular budgets, once and for all, of expenditure that is still maintained through extraordinary appropriations in respect of the participation of our Armed Forces in peace operations; or the annual expenditure of the EPAs, the famous special arms programmes. - I'll wrap it up. A new final provision is also proposed for the extension in active service, after retirement age, of at least five years of university professors. We believe that, since the university has been decapitalised through the non-replenishment rates of 10%, a good way to maintain the research and scientific capacity of our universities without enlargement is simply to extend those teachers who have reached the retirement age of seventy years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Sixto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. The Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left has tabled almost half a hundred amendments to the additional transitional and final provisions, some of which mark a very clear political profile, so it is a privilege and a pleasure for me to come up to this rostrum to defend them. Some are basic and rather obvious, such as those which suggest that the Government's initiative in this budget to recover the extra pay for public administration workers in the state public sector should be extended to all workers in other public administrations, or that the places called for in the opposition to judicial and fiscal careers should be increased. Others already mark a very clear political profile, such as the 1957 amendment, which speaks of the Catholic Church and sets out what for us is a desideratum that should become reality at some point, and that is that on 31 December 2018 the Catholic Church could definitively self-finance itself, an objective that the Spanish State has also affirmed at the time. We plan that, as of January 1, 2018, the privileges available to the Catholic Church of exemption from certain taxes, such as property, will end. It seems to us to be a matter of justice. In the 1958 amendment we propose that on such a specific issue that affects very few people but in a very painful way, such as rare diseases, there is no budgetary limitation that prevents the referrals and movements necessary to care for these patients, regardless of the autonomous community in which they are located. On the other hand, in one of our amendments, we are talking about the creation of a state fund to combat poverty and we are proposing that it be provided with EUR 150 million, just a minimum amount of budgets, but that those people who are not getting the sore economic recovery from the People's Party Government could be greatly relieved of the poverty situation in which they are living and that the reports that the NGOs are raising every short time may be misleading. We also have another amendment on something that would be a big scandal but a big benefit to hepatitis C patients and that is that a new system should be established for the manufacture of the generic of Sovaldi medicine and that, if that was not possible, the patent of this medicine should be expropriated in order to avoid the looting of public coffers by some pharmaceutical companies. With regard to the Royal House - apart from other expenditure reduction amendments that will be explained tomorrow - we have proposed something that should be basic and that, despite the fact that the People's Party rejects this amendment in its vote tomorrow, we invite the Royal House to assume it. We propose that the members of the Royal House fulfil the same obligations of declaration of property, transparency of property and rights as those of the high authorities of the State, which would be very positive in separating their personal and private assets from those of the State and which are made available to the royal family. I regret that the amendment to repeal the Lomce has not been accepted. In another of our amendments, 1971, we put forward something that France already has, which is the creation of an index of social progress, an index that allows us to assess the state of families, of people and of society as a whole, beyond the economic indices. I say that there is an example in France that establishes a similar index, and we hope that this will result in a monographic debate in the General Courts that invites us to talk, beyond certain indices or certain growths that are so pleasing to the Government of the People's Party and to the Minister of Finance, about the personal and specific situation of many citizens of this country who continue in such a regrettable situation. Our 1972 amendment derails a whole series of reform measures in the tax system. We are planning the reform of the IRPF; the reform of corporation tax, to bring it at least closer to the type listed by the law; we are proposing to create a property tax; to review the rise in VAT, specifically in what are the ordinary supplies of people - scandalously, in the news of every day, we see the increases that we have had to bear all citizens in recent years -; we are proposing to create a tax on financial transactions; a tax on wealth; to develop a green tax; and to increase human resources in the tax administration. Our 1973 amendment is also one of those political amendments. It is a question of creating a guaranteed minimum income system and that this guaranteed minimum income is also payable to the social jurisdiction, that is, that it is not a mere declaratory event that ultimately remains in nothing after budget cuts, but rather of establishing a minimum amount. We call for a mechanism whereby people can claim this right in a real way. Finally, in relation to the Catholic Church and also with an amendment that marks profile, we definitely propose the suppression.. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] No, no, for God's sake, let each one have the freedom to worship the god or gods he wants or to profess the superstition he deems appropriate. What we consider absolutely unwarranted in the 21st century is that the bishops of the Catholic Church - which the Catholic Church - in short, continue to have the privilege of making certificates of dominion over immovable property, by which what they say is valid before public registers as proof of possession of certain property. [[Applauds]] We plan that that in the time of Franco and the Middle Ages would perhaps be very good, but that in the 21st century the Catholic Church... and, ladies and gentlemen, many basic Christians do not understand it and do not share it. These are our amendments, which make a profile and which, I say, it has been a privilege to raise this rostrum to defend them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d ́Unió, I have the floor Mr Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. The Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d'Unió has tabled more than eighty amendments to final, additional, transitional and derogatory provisions, and so some of them I and the rest of Mr Macias will explain. One we think is important is 3534. In the face of worrying rates of risk of social exclusion and poverty, especially among children, our parliamentary group, like every year - and it is never approved - calls for an increase in the amount of social security benefits per dependent child to combat child poverty. It is a direct measure to fight this scourge. With regard to the derogating provisions, we include the repeal of the thirty-eighth additional provision and the third final provision of the Lomce, which, I recall, breaks the linguistic immersion system in Catalonia and provides for compensation to families who take their children to a private centre in Spanish-language vehicles. The position of the Convergence i d'Unió Parliamentary Group has been very clear in relation to this law. We therefore call for the repeal of these two Lomce precepts. Amendment 3584 proposes a final provision on the amendment of the Corporation Tax Act to extend the exemption from the filing of such tax by non-profit entities. I would like to remind you that the majority group has made a commitment made by Minister Montoro following a motion by Mr Sánchez i Llibre to give a solution to this issue because it is a matter of great concern to the non-profit sector. This is the last opportunity we have in the General State Budgets to solve this problem; let us therefore correct it. On the other hand, Amendment 3586 corrects the value added tax increases provided for in Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 in the field of culture, gyms and hairdressers which, as you know perfectly well, would be a good engine for the revival of the economy. At the request of the members of the Catalan Democratic Union, we have tabled a number of amendments, for example a final provision calling for the extension of the scope of the IRPF module scheme for self-employed workers following the excessive reduction in the tax reform. In addition, through another amendment made by Unió Democrática de Catalunya, we establish tax benefits to promote actions and investments in sustainable forest management. In conclusion, the members of the Catalan Democratic Union want to focus attention on the following amendment, with which we propose a final provision regarding the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act to encourage exemption from the payment of this tax to food donations to food banks or non-profit entities in the same way as existing models in countries in our most direct environment. It is not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen, for citizens and businesses to respond to calls to donate food made by non-profit entities or food banks and to alleviate the great needs or shortages suffered by many families, and for those who earn from these donations to be the State in collecting more VAT, so it does not seem fair. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. Mr Macias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. The Convergence i d'Unió Parliamentary Group has tabled quite a few amendments to the additional, transitional, derogatory, final and annex provisions because frankly these budgets would need a good wash, a thorough wash, in order to make them, first of all, compliant with the law; secondly, somewhat fairer and, finally, compliant with the principle that we have already reported before - we have seen that they have been alluded to - of institutional loyalty. Let us now talk about law enforcement and Supreme Court rulings. We do so through Amendment No 3537, which provides for a new additional provision. On the one hand, it calls for an increase in the social resources of the IRPF's full share, from 0.7% to 1 % - it seems that at the moment everyone would understand this - and on the other hand, for compliance with the rulings of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court in relation to the powers of the autonomous communities to manage the resources derived from that allocation. It should be repeated once again because it seems that no one here is alluded to. We have tabled an amendment which seems very logical to us: we ask the State to publish the fiscal balances of the autonomous communities; not a territorialized accounts that nobody knows exactly what it is, but that which was the result of a commission made up of professors from universities in the Spanish State, since they said that there were basically two methods and that they presented the two so that interpretations could be made. Well, this which was transparent, academically impeccable, etc., became the territorialized accounts of a friend of Minister Montoro. Speaking of greater institutional loyalty, it would be good for the State to compensate the Autonomous Communities for the cost increase they have incurred as a result of an increase in the VAT on certain health products, or for the State to provide the National Health System with the additional resources necessary to compensate for the cost of new medicines for the treatment of hepatitis C. He has given them credit, but he has not paid for it, and it would be logical to finance it. It would also be useful to settle outstanding debts with the Autonomous Communities under the Health Cohesion Fund and the Assistance Guarantee Fund. Or, for example, in order not to have to say that the FLA is given generously - it is not given to the FLA, it is lent - if the amounts corresponding to each year were given to the Competitiveness Fund, perhaps the communities would not need to be so much in debt. The great amendment that summarizes the deep institutional disloyalty is the one that demands the allocation of 750 million euros as compensation for what is laid down in the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, 2008. You say, no, this is abrogated. That is true, but this amount had been agreed upon in a joint committee between the State and the Generalitat, and when a committee of two meets and agrees something, but then one says that it is not going to comply with it, it sounds to me like deep institutional disloyalty. Why? Because I'm older and I have more strength.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u130	Mr. Macias, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u131	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. I will do so with one sentence: Please, please, stop justifying institutional disloyalties. Stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Macias. Mr Caldera has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Our amendments show the concern, which should be common, ladies and gentlemen, for the sustainability of our economic growth model. We have already discussed this in the Commission. Today it seems rather that the situation of the Spanish economy, which is certainly growing - it is - responds better to a recovery movement after the tremendous fall in gross domestic product than to sustainable bases of growth for the future and is further supported - we also discussed the other day - by external factors, such as a monetary policy very favourable to the European Central Bank or an extraordinary fall in oil prices. Let me not be told that this also affects others and that Spain grows differently than they do. Yes, of course, but if those external reasons were to disappear, those reasons that help our economic growth at this time, the impact on the Spanish economy would be greater, for two very simple reasons, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, one, because Spain is a very indebted country, therefore the rise in the rates would harm us proportionally much more than other countries, and two, because the increase in the price of oil would affect the Spanish economy more than other economies, because our dependence on oil and energy imports is much higher than that of other economies. Therefore, and I say this for the debate and for the analysis, this should concern us, because, if we eliminate these factors, the rate of economic growth would probably be quite low. If they were eliminated for Europe, surely many of these countries would be at negative rates and that would also lead the Spanish economy further by the degree of integration we have in the European Union today. There are few endogenous factors, few own factors that allow economic activity to recover. They will not think that by bouncing tourism and a little the construction sector we can maintain our economic system, our productive model. It's not like that. It's impossible. It is only necessary to see the volume of production lost or the contribution to the GDP of the construction sector during this crisis. It would be impossible. This argument is also seen because any negative factor affecting the world economy has proportionally greater effects on the Spanish economy, as I told you in the Commission, that in other countries of similar weight and economic structure, and the forecasts of international bodies are not very flattering for the future. This should concern us because there are still certain mistrusts about the recovery model of our economy that can cause us enormous damage in the future. What's the only way out? I know this is not an easy way out, it is a way out that will take time, it will take serious efforts, it will take a total involvement of the whole of Spanish society, but the only way out is to encourage those sectors of sustainable economic activity that are associated with the economy of the future, such as innovation. We discussed this in the debate last year. If you take the labour force survey and you take the classification of economic activities, you will see that there are various economic sectors that can be considered as engines of the economy of the future that today grow less than construction and that tourism, that are being left behind and that are nevertheless more sustainable sectors for the future that should be drawn from the whole Spanish economy. This is because the incentive framework or regulatory framework established for it has changed, so that today they are suffering from the situation and are curbing their rate of economic growth which continued to rise during the years 2008 to 2012: the contribution of renewable energies, the machine tools sector, the biotechnology sector, research and development, sustainable sectors which have all slowed down their growth and which are likely to lead us to a much more difficult situation in the future. That is why the proposals put forward by the Socialist Group are a relatively modest programme of incentives not only for the recovery of the economy, but also for the modernisation of the economy and for the correction of inequalities. It is unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen, I suppose you will be asked, this tendency, which is general, I recognise, to increase inequalities. It's very worrying. Today, most economic experts consider this to be the main factor, the main obstacle to economic growth, the tremendous increase in inequalities that are occurring. Therefore, in both chapters my group is presenting a package of modest amendments, because it knows that the situation is difficult, to help modernise the Spanish economy, for example by favouring active employment policies, reindustrialisation programmes, modest but necessary programmes of aid to the areas of our country suffering from depopulation, in a unanimous agreement of the Senate that is not fulfilled in these budgets, which means a real problem for the future of the Spanish economy and its balances, programmes that go in favour of the most innovative sectors and programmes that seek to start the path of correcting inequalities. Two of these are key: improving the Unit Act, which is the most productive sector in the social sphere, with the highest rate of investment recovery, cannot move that investment and is intensive in job creation. The second is the allocation of vital minimum income, not on a general basis, as was said in the Commission, not - this is an exceptional moment - as long as there are families who want and cannot work and are without any income. We believe that there are sufficient resources to cover these needs, even linked to the active search for employment, which would make this country much more worthy, and would also be a directly productive expenditure that would help to recover our economic activity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Caldera. For the People's Group, Mr Pastor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. As usual, our group considers this discussion of additional provisions to be impractical, since it is too broad and heterogeneous a group of issues to be dealt with, which the relevant speakers or rapporteurs address in the appropriate sections, and, in our view, is the most appropriate model for dealing with matters with the rigour and depth that is appropriate. However, I would like to comment on some of the issues that have been raised by the speakers and that are reflected in the many and varied amendments that have been tabled to this paragraph. In particular, I would like to start with one that seems really remarkable to me, which is from the Catalan Group of Convergence i d'Unió, and it is a pity that Mr Macias is not here with us, because this of introducing an amendment in the additional provisions of the State General Budgets to comply with the judgments of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court in relation to the powers of the autonomous communities to manage the resources from the 0.7 % earmarked for social purposes is certainly remarkable. At least I've been so powerfully drawn to my attention. Our group believes that the judgments must always be complied with and, therefore, I will take this opportunity to invite the Catalan Group, if it is so concerned about the enforcement of the rulings of the Constitutional Court, to take the magnificent opportunity to demonstrate it by voting in favour of the initiative put forward by our political group to ensure that the rulings of the Constitutional Court are applied precisely. [[Applauds]] You're worried about 0.7%, someone might say it's 3 percent, but, well, in this case, 0.7%. [[Applauds]] We are concerned about the implementation of 100 per cent of the Constitutional Court's judgments. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] There are other amendments, of course. There are amendments, for example, which affect taxation, which are intended to increase our progressivity, introduce new wealth taxes or introduce a tax on big fortunes. I think that you did not know well when you tabled these amendments, that you did not have to know what happened in France with a very similar initiative and that it failed dramatically despite being President Hollande's star initiative. Look, ladies and gentlemen, our fiscal policy has very clear ideas and we have repeated it on numerous occasions. As our country's economic situation continues to improve, what we will do will continue to lower taxes on Spanish citizens, as we have been doing in recent times. This is because, in our opinion, what is right is to give back to the Spaniards the efforts that have been demanded of them during these years of crisis, because lowering taxes stimulates income, stimulates consumption, is good for the economy and, finally, why deny it?, because it is one of the issues with which we are presenting ourselves to ask for the confidence of the Spaniards, which we were unable to fulfill because of the calamitous state in which we were left the public accounts and that now that things are going better we are ready to fulfill. Therefore, that is our commitment and that is what we will continue to do. I would also like to mention the speech by the spokesman for the Socialist Group, Mr Caldera. You share with us the doubts about the economic growth model and say that a very important part of it is due to the external factors that push our economy, such as the drop in crude oil that contributes to our savings and lightens public accounts or the injection of liquidity from the European Central Bank. He asks me not to tell him again that this wind of tail benefits the Spanish economy more than others, but I cannot give him the reason in this respect and I have to tell him again. There will be some reason why we are better off when the situation improves. With you there is something that is certainly striking and that is that when things go wrong and govern you it is because of others, it is because of the international crisis, you have nothing to do with it. When we rule and things start to get better, it turns out that it's because of others too, we've had nothing to do with it. [[Applauds]] A year ago in this very debate you shared with us your fondness for reading the international press, in particular the British weekly The Economist, of which I must confess that I too am an avid reader. Now that it's up to me to participate in this debate I'm going to share with you another news from an international newspaper, The Financial Times, which in an editorial of some very close dates said that when the People's Party came to the government in 2011 Spain was seen as the main problem of the European Union and as the greatest risk to the survival of the euro and that today - what a coincidence - it is one of the fastest growing economies of the club, with a growth forecast of more than 3%. He went on to say that Mr Rajoy deserves credit for the reforms that have helped to start the recovery. It is true that there are external risks to the economy, but above all - and all the international media say so very routinely - there is a fundamental risk to the Spanish economy and that risk is political uncertainty and that risk is represented by you and the populists. [[Applauds]] He also talks about industrialization. I come from a province like Valladolid, in which industry has an important weight, and I have to tell you that thanks to the reforms that have been implemented, thanks to the measures that have been taken in this legislature, today the risk of relocation of industries such as automotive has disappeared, thanks to reforms that you want to repeal. Finally, I will mention again something you mentioned in your speech a year ago. You quoted a well-known phrase from Albert Einstein: If you want different results, do different things. You're absolutely right, indeed. If we do not want growth and return to recession, if what we want is to create unemployment again, if what we want is to increase the deficit hole and if what we want is to return to the hole, then the recipe is yours. However, as we want to continue to grow, continue to increase employment and guarantee the welfare state for future generations, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to apply our recipe, which is the one that works and it is the one that guarantees the welfare of Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-09-14-CD150914.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Pastor. The meeting was suspended. It was nine and forty-five minutes of the night.
