ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u1	The meeting was resumed. Appearance of the President of the Government to report on the European Council of 19 and 20 March 2015. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 March, the plenary session was suspended, which was to take place in this House and in which it planned to inform your ladies and gentlemen of the development of the European Council held on 19 and 20 March. The reason for this was the tragedy that happened the day before on the Barcelona-Dusseldorf flight of the Germanwings company that cost the lives of one hundred and fifty people. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my deepest condolences and solidarity with the families and friends of the victims. This terrible event took place in the French Alps and the victims were mostly European, mainly German and Spanish. I must say that, on such a difficult and sad occasion as this, the signs of unity and solidarity among Europeans have come out, highlighting how Europe is first and foremost a community of values and affections, on the one hand, through the exceptional effort of the French Government and the French authorities to locate and recover the remains of the victims and the extraordinary generosity of the people of the area to welcome and comfort their relatives; on the other hand, with the close cooperation and collaboration that we have maintained from the beginning by the governments of the most affected countries. I can assure you that at that time, when I was in the area of catastrophe with the President of the French Republic, François Hollande, and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Angela Merkel, I was able to perceive with total clarity the intensity of this collaboration. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech in this House on 25 March was to take place just one week after the savage attack in Tunisia, which claimed twenty-one deaths, two of them Spanish citizens, to whose families I would like to transfer all my support once again. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey a conviction to you. We Europeans will remain united and firm in the face of those who want to attack our democracy and our freedoms. Precisely, a union of freedom, security and justice is one of the five priorities of the European Union's strategic agenda adopted by the European Council last June. From full respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law, to all European values and, given the cross-border dimension of international terrorism, especially jihadist, strong cooperation in the European Union is essential. The threat of terrorism continues to be very present, as demonstrated by this cowardly attack. On 24 February, I had the opportunity to inform this House of the decisions taken by the European Union in connection with the attacks on 7 January in Paris. While the essentials are reflected in the statement of the informal meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the European Union held in Brussels on 12 February, there has subsequently been some important progress which I would like to record today in this House. Member States are making progress and, as a good example, in Spain, the Security Forces and Corps are carrying out an essential task of preventing and persecuting jihadist terrorism. This is demonstrated by the operation carried out on 13 March by the National Police, which allowed the arrest of eight people who formed a jihadist propaganda cell connected with the Islamic State terrorist organization, Daesh. This was the first police operation in which a group of these characteristics was disarticulated in Spain. Later last week, the police of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia arrested eleven people accused of being part of a cell also linked to Daesh. These people had the opposing will to commit a terrorist attack in Barcelona. I would like to congratulate both those responsible and those who have successfully carried them out for both operations. Finally, I would remind you that yesterday the ministerial meeting with the Mediterranean partners of the European Union was held in Barcelona to discuss the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy promoted by Spain and that it allowed for a debate between the European Union and its Mediterranean partners on how to better tackle and combat terrorism, I insist, one of the threats common to the two shores of the Mediterranean. I now turn to the development of the European Council held in Brussels on 19 and 20 March. It was the first ordinary European Council in the Latvian Presidency of the Council following the informal meeting of Heads of State and Government held on 12 February. The European Union has embarked on a new path characterised by economic recovery, overcoming the euro crisis, progress in economic and monetary union, now reinforced by the banking union, and a new political cycle following the elections to the European Parliament last May and the appointment of a new European Commission in November. The annual growth of the eurozone economy in the fourth quarter of 2014 was 0.9 % and 1.2 % across the European Union. In Spain, as your ladies and gentlemen know, it reached 2%. As regards employment and also with data for the fourth quarter of 2014, the annual increase was 0.9 % in the eurozone and 1 % in the European Union. In Spain, as your ladies and gentlemen also know, it was 2.4%. The fact is that the eurozone is maintaining its recovery and for the first time since 2007 the economies of all its Member States are expected to grow in 2015. Moreover, at the end of March, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development raised growth forecasts for the eurozone to 1.4% this year and 2% in 2016. In other words, the European Union has provided itself with stability for the coming years. Following the 2014 European elections, a coalition between the popular, socialist and liberal forces was created within the European Parliament, the investiture of the College of Commissioners and the election of Donald Tusk as President of the European Council has taken place in time and form, and the role of the European Commission has been strengthened, given that Jean-Claude Juncker was indirectly elected by European citizens as President of the Commission as the candidate of the most voted list among which the European political parties presented. In addition, the Commission is linked to the European Council by the five priorities of the Union's Strategic Agenda adopted in June 2014 and to which I have already referred. The debate at the last European Council is precisely about achieving the objectives of this strategic agenda. The conclusions consist of three sections: the union of energy, growth and employment and the European Semester and external relations. Energy union is one of the five priorities of the Union's strategic agenda. It was adopted by the European Council in June 2014 and is also one of the ten priorities of the agenda that the President of the European Commission, Juncker, presented in his investiture speech in the European Parliament. This is an important milestone in European integration and, why not say so, an important success for Spain. The energy union aims to provide the European Union with a secure, sustainable and competitive European energy system, and one of its essential elements is the achievement of a truly functioning and fully interconnected internal energy market. So far and despite efforts to harmonise regulation at European level, the Union still has very fragmented energy markets. This, as I have said many times, is particularly serious for our country. Spain is de facto excluded from the internal energy market. Our electricity interconnection with the rest of the European Union is around 4% and with France, our gateway to the internal market, it reaches only 2.7%, once in June the line opened by Prime Minister Valls and me on 20 February is fully operational. This isolation has very important tangible effects for citizens and businesses, which face a higher energy cost. Citizens also have to make a greater effort to pay for the receipt of light and businesses see their production costs rise with the corresponding loss of competitiveness and therefore of the ability to grow and generate employment. It also means that using renewable energy is more expensive and more difficult in Spain. The problem with renewable energies, ladies and gentlemen, is that they are volatile, that is, that in a day with little sun or little wind they barely produce, well, greater interconnection reduces that volatility. That is why, since I assumed the presidency of the Government, I have made the utmost effort in Europe to correct this situation. At the Barcelona European Council in June 2002, nothing more and nothing less than thirteen years ago, a minimum electricity interconnection target of 10% of installed capacity was set. Progress since then had been limited. Over the past three years Spain has worked hard to make this goal a reality and we have already made significant progress in previous European Councils. Firstly, we have again placed the problem of Spain's energy isolation at the centre of the European debate. As you know, at the European Council in May 2013 which discussed the subject of energy, interconnection is once again set as an objective and the need to complete the internal market in this area is reiterated. The Council considered it a priority to take more decisive action to meet the minimum electricity interconnection target of 10% and, within the framework of projects of common interest to the trans-European networks, to call for further concrete measures and projects with European support. Secondly, in 2014 interconnection was achieved as an important element in the new energy and climate framework 2020-2030. Thus, the October 2014 European Council was decisive. The Council agreed on the framework for action of the European Union in the field of climate and energy until 2030, in which interconnections play a key role. For the first time, the absence of interconnections is recognised as a European problem, which therefore needs European solutions. The link between interconnection and renewable energy is also recognized. For all this, the Commission has committed itself to taking urgent measures to promote specific projects, including financial support for these projects with European funds. Finally, the European Council I am reporting to this House today has provided a new impetus for both energy union and interconnection. The Commission has adopted three communications: a framework strategy for an energy union, achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target, preparing the European electricity network for 2020 and the Paris Protocol and a master plan to combat climate change beyond 2020. In the first, the framework strategy communication, the Commission sets out the five priority axes on which the energy union must be based: energy security, solidarity and trust, a fully integrated internal energy market, energy efficiency as a contribution to the moderation of demand, decarbonisation of the economy and research, innovation and competitiveness. Energy efficiency and decarbonisation are particularly important, in which we have taken steps at national level, such as the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Fund or vehicle renewal programmes such as PIVE, PIMA Air and PIMA Transport. As is obvious, we also share the goal of energy diversification and security. With regard to research and development, we would have liked a greater weight of this element in the strategy because we believe that the union of energy should be an engine of growth and employment. The interconnection, on the other hand, is not only recognised as an essential element of energy union, but the Commission has, as I have said, published a specific communication. In this communication, the Commission gives interconnection political priority. To increase interconnections to the required 10%, European energy infrastructure planning will be reviewed for the coming years. Key projects will be supported by European funds. Spain will be the main beneficiary of this measure, since it is the country that is the furthest away from meeting the 10% target. In fact, there has already been progress in this regard and there are good options for including soon new interconnection projects between Spain and France through the Pyrenees as one of the European priority projects. In fact, the European infrastructure coordinating body, Entso-e, has already indicated its intention to do so this year. In addition, the conclusions highlight the Madrid Declaration of 4 March, signed by the President of the French Republic, the President of the European Commission and the Heads of Government of Portugal and Spain. I would like to stress that the Madrid Declaration is a major step forward in ending the isolation of the Iberian peninsula from the internal energy market. The declaration establishes a programme of actions and identifies a number of electricity and gas interconnection projects that will have to be initiated and developed as soon as possible, using the accelerated procedures allowing the regulation of trans-European energy networks. I turn to the second paragraph of the Council conclusions before us today. It concerns growth and employment and the European Semester. The boost of employment, growth, competitiveness and investment are priorities, both of the Union's strategic agenda and of the new Commission's agenda. Firstly, the European Council has analysed the economic situation in Europe and also the implementation of the structural reforms undertaken by the Member States. For Spain, the European Commission's winter forecast is that GDP will grow by 2.3% in 2015 and 2.5% in 2016. According to the Commission, this positive trend is mainly due to the progress of domestic demand, which is in turn favoured by an improvement in the labour market, more affordable financing conditions, greater confidence and lower energy prices. The Commission also considers that improvements in job creation will be intensified in Spain in the coming months and that unemployment will fall to 20.7% in 2016, 6 percentage points less than in 2013. In Spain, the latest unemployment figures for March have been very good again. The fall in unemployment recorded in 60,214 people this March was the best in thirteen years. Unemployment is decreasing at an annual rate of 7.2% and employment is growing at the highest rate in recent years. Remember that in March the number of members of Social Security increased by 160,579 people, representing almost 540,000 members more than a year ago. Ladies and gentlemen, behind the coldness of the figures lies the reality that matters most, that of those people with their families, their projects and their desires, who will have the opportunity to carry out. [[Applauds]] As for the public deficit, we are on the right track to meet the target in 2015 and to achieve the compliance value of the Stability and Growth Pact established in 2016. The increase in confidence in the Spanish economy, which is also recognised in the Commission's report, has made it possible for the price that Spain must pay to be financed on the markets to the extent that, for the first time in Spain's history, in the six-month auction of letters last April 7, interest has been negative, at 0.002 %, i.e. investors pay for lending money to Spain. These aren't just numbers, either. Getting better financing conditions means in practice that there will be cheaper money for small and medium-sized enterprises and credits for those who want to start a business or expand what they already have, that is, that they can carry out their initiatives and projects. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the outcome of the studies under the macroeconomic imbalances procedure published by the Commission. The study considers that in Spain there are no excessive imbalances and that the risks arising from them have been reduced compared to last year thanks to the growth of the Spanish economy. It is true that imbalances such as the level of unemployment and high indebtedness persist, but the study adds that significant progress has been made over the course of 2014 in the implementation of the specific recommendations made by the Commission in its day. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only welcome the fact that the European Council has seen positive developments in Spain and that it has ratified the economic strategy for which our Government has been advocating in Europe since the beginning of 2012. Five ideas: budgetary consolidation, reforms at national level, reforms at European Union level, deepening economic and monetary union and stabilising financial markets. The change in the situation is certainly remarkable and is reflected in these reports, but we are aware that much remains to be done, both in Spain and in the European Union as a whole. In our case, in the near future and as the House already knows, the Government, as usual, will present to Brussels its national reform plan and its stability programme, which we will adopt on the next 30th day of this April. In other words, at European level and referring to the field of investment promotion, the Union is finalising the design of the Juncker Plan. In its conclusions, the European Council welcomed the agreement reached at the Ecofin Council on 10 March on the regulation of the European Strategic Investment Fund, which is one of the key elements of the Juncker Plan. Under this plan, as you know, European funds will be used for the granting of guarantees that will reduce both the financing of large infrastructure projects and SMEs projects. The ultimate objective is to mobilise €315 billion. The Government of Spain will participate through the Official Credit Institute to support projects approved in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Council has re-emphasized the importance for growth, employment and investment in Europe of the early conclusion of the agreement on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership between the European Union and the United States. Both sides must make every effort to reach an ambitious global agreement before the end of the year. Spain is working to bring the treaty to an ambitious and balanced conclusion that demonstrates the shared vision and joint commitment of Europeans and Americans. Spain believes that the Treaty, while respecting European values and standards, should contribute to the development of an integrated transatlantic market for the benefit of European consumers, users and businesses and should also strengthen the role of the European Union in the global trading system. That is why I have participated together with other partners in two specific meetings to promote negotiations on this agreement, one in the framework of the G-20 Summit in Australia and the other during last year's European Council. The transatlantic relationship has so far been the backbone of the world economy. The European Union and the United States account for approximately 47% of world GDP and more than a third of trade flows. Moreover, the transatlantic relationship is already intense, as the European Union is the first trading partner in the United States, 17% of its total trade in 2013, and this is the case for the European Union with 14.2 of its global total. The potential for growth is significant, as there is no record of two economies of this size negotiating such ambitious trade and investment liberalization and regulatory convergence. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I turn to the third section of the conclusions on external relations, which dealt with four issues: the European Neighbourhood Policy, the Eastern Partnership Summit to be held in Riga in May, the crisis in Ukraine and relations with Russia and the situation in Libya. I would like to stress the importance of the Mediterranean dimension of the European Neighbourhood Policy. Spain has been insisting on the need to give greater political attention to the Mediterranean neighbours of the Union. Spain has therefore called for and managed to make reference in the conclusions of the European Council to the following issues: the need for the ongoing review of the European Neighbourhood Policy to ensure the European Union's continued and deep commitment to its eastern and southern partners; the European Council will hold a debate on the southern neighbours in October; and the holding in Barcelona on 13 April of an informal Union ministerial meeting with the Mediterranean neighbours, which the European Council expressly endorsed. This meeting, which you know was held in Barcelona last Monday, has enabled our Mediterranean partners to express their views on the European Neighbourhood Policy, to give greater visibility to the Mediterranean dimension of this policy and to address issues and challenges of common interest, as I pointed out at the beginning. With regard to the Eastern Partnership Summit to be held in Riga on 21 and 22 May, the European Council wished to underline its support for the six eastern neighbours of the Union: Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Armenia, and the need to develop cooperation with these countries. The conclusions have an impact on the principle of differentiation, in line with the aspirations of each of them, and stress the importance of areas such as State consolidation, mobility and contacts between citizens, market opportunities and interconnections. Secondly, and with regard to the situation in Ukraine and relations with Russia, the European Council has re-emphasized that the priority now is for the parties to the conflict to implement the Minsk agreements promptly and fully and to fulfil their commitments. To this end, the European Council has expressed the readiness of the European Union to support the process, in particular with regard to the capacity and means of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, to monitor and verify the implementation of the Minsk agreements. The paragraph of the conclusions on sanctions against the Russian Federation underlines the need for their duration to be linked to the degree and pace of compliance with the aforementioned Minsk agreements. It is essential for Spain to maintain a united position of the European Union. Russia must make a greater commitment to a peaceful and negotiated solution to the crisis, and we cannot forget that if Russia is part of the problem, it should also be part of the solution. The conclusions reflect the European Union's support for the reform process in Ukraine, and the need for further political and economic reforms to improve the well-being of citizens is transferred to the Ukrainian Government. These were also the messages I sent to the Ukrainian Prime Minister, Arseni Yatseniuk, at the meeting we held before the start of the European Council. Finally, in relation to Libya, the European Council considers that the most important thing at the moment is to achieve an immediate and unconditional ceasefire, and that the various parties reach an agreement to form a government of national unity. The European Council reiterates its support for the work of the United Nations, and commends the work of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Bernardino León; recalls also the relationship between the crisis in Libya and immigration, and the tragedy of loss of life at sea, and therefore calls for intensified implementation of the measures agreed by the Council in October 2014 to better manage migration flows, and welcomes the Commission's initiative to present a European migration programme in May. And I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. As a matter of balance, I believe that the European Council of 19 and 20 March has been fruitful, first of all because it has demonstrated the ability of the European Union to concentrate its efforts and to move forward on the issues that form part of its strategic priorities. In this new European political cycle, which began on 1 November, the Union is working to restore the confidence of European citizens, and to focus policies on the main challenges facing our economies and our societies. The Union's agenda should focus on areas where the Union can play a truly decisive role. As President Juncker pointed out, in his investiture speech, the European Union must be bigger and more ambitious in big things, and smaller and more modest in small things. It seems to me that the initiatives of this European Council in matters such as energy union, growth, investment, employment, the crisis in Ukraine or the European neighbourhood policy are in that direction. This European Council has highlighted something that I have always considered fundamental in focusing our country's European policy. Spain must ensure that its national objectives become European priorities and that they can be achieved within the European Union. The progress that this European Council has made in the energy union is an example of this. I would also like to highlight in particular what has been achieved in the Union in the area of taxation. Before the European Council last December, I wrote to the President of the Council, Donald Tusk, raising the need to ensure that taxation continues to be at the heart of European Council meetings and setting out the objectives to be achieved. A few days later, the European Council welcomed the Commission's intention to present a proposal on the automatic exchange of information on tax agreements on the web. Last March, the Commission also adopted a legislative proposal aimed at achieving greater cooperation between Member States on cross-border tax agreements through automatic exchange of information. I therefore welcome the results achieved in this Council and the course the European Union has taken in recent months. Ladies and gentlemen, every time I report to this House on the European Councils, I stress something that I am going to refer to again right now, which is that the integration process is moving forward, perhaps not with the speed that some of us would like, but is moving forward, and that for those of us who believe that a more integrated Europe, economically, socially and politically, will be much better for our fellow citizens, does nothing but increase our hopes in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. Firstly, Mr Sánchez has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by adding to the words of the President of the Government in memory of the victims of the air tragedy in the Alps, and also by showing the solidarity of the Socialist Parliamentary Group with the families and friends of those victims. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, debates like today are undoubtedly of political significance for the day-to-day majority of Spaniards. You have spoken about European economic policy, you have spoken about energy, Libya, Russia, the free trade agreement between the United States and the European Union, about the Juncker Plan, you have not spoken about the situation in Greece, but I will say something about the situation in Greece. In short, they are all fundamental issues that would merit the prior positioning of this House, the Congress of Deputies, its parliamentary groups and also the Government before the Council was held. I would like to draw attention to this fact, ladies and gentlemen, because once you have given a folder to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, demonstrating your null and void will to revitalize parliamentary life in our country, and since we are at the end of the parliamentary term, I would like to assume before all of you - to make it appear in the "Diary of Sessions", ladies and gentlemen - that if the parliamentary majority during the next parliamentary term changes from blue to red, the commitment of that parliamentary majority will be to hold those debates before the European Councils are held. [[Applauds]] Your honors and the Spaniards deserve it. Nor will we add up to two debates on European councils to such an important debate as the debate on the state of the nation, which is precisely what the Spanish Government did during the debate last March. Your honors and the Spaniards don't deserve it either. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion and in my group's opinion over the past three and a half years, if anything has happened in Europe, it has been precisely that Spain has lost weight in the major debates in the European Union. [[Protests]] Yes, there are facts that prove it. We have lost a Vice-President of Competition in the European Commission, and we have achieved a police station with two Vice-Presidents above. After eight months of the first announcement by the Eurogroup Presidency for Mr De Guindos, we do not know what will happen to Mr De Guindos' future today. And the most serious thing in my opinion is that Spain has lost one of the posts traditionally held at the Council of the European Central Bank. By the way, after listening to the governor of the central bank in Spain describe the government's cuts as patriots, there is no doubt that the positive change in monetary policy that has taken place by the European markets and economies of the European Central Bank has nothing to do with the influence of the current government, but rather the opposite. By the way, listening to these kinds of statements by the current governor of the Banco de España is another example of the institutional deterioration of our system by the partisan use made by the People's Party of these institutions. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, he was the governor of the Banco de España, before yesterday the director of the Tax Agency, and every day the Spanish Radiotelevision Television. You are the most interventionist government of democracy, you are the right-wing always, Mr Rajoy. Democratic regeneration, having just institutions outside party interests, is vital to improving the democratic quality of our country and to strengthening a just economic recovery. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, in our opinion regeneration and economic recovery go hand in hand. But I said, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain is not present in the major debates of the European Union, that is true, and it also causes us to listen to those responsible for its government to think about the European day as if they were commentators, analysts outside of Spanish political action. The last example was, in my view, the unfortunate statements made by Minister Margallo, ensuring that a hypothetical Greek exit from the euro would not cause any disturbance. According to the Foreign Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the issuance of bonds and the relaxation of monetary policy would make the euro area circumvent the possible exit of Greece from the euro without any difficulty. This was said yesterday by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Government of Spain, and I ask you, Mr Rajoy, where do you leave the Greek citizens? The European Union is not a currency, it is not even just a single market; the European dream is first and foremost a comprehensive, inclusive political project, built on the basis of the social market economy, an area protected by fundamental rights and freedoms, a commitment to social cohesion, and a commitment to solidarity. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the new Commission is giving a positive, albeit insufficient, turn to European economic policy, witnessing a gradual abandonment of the austere policies that are causing so much pain in European society; an austere policies that have proved to be inefficient in economic terms - all that is to be seen is the comparison between the evolution of gross domestic product in the United States and in Europe as a whole - an austere policies that have also impacted, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the European project. Some freedoms are being cut in several countries of the European Union, and you have not even mentioned those examples. There is an upsurge in populism, the complete freedom of movement between people - or people, rather - on the European continent, social cohesion has receded, and solidarity has given way to nationalist selfishness. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, has been at the epicenter of all these setbacks; in broad layers of its society a real humanitarian drama is lived without any exaggeration. To face this situation with insensitivity, with remoteness, with indifference, with the dogma of false rigour as the only doctrine, or with the permanent reminder of due penance is the kind of anti-European response that we reject. The departure of Greece from the euro would, ladies and gentlemen, be an absolute failure, it would be for Greece and it would also be for the European Union project. That's our position. That cannot therefore be the response of the Government of Spain, it is certainly not the response of my parliamentary group. Firstly, it is not out of responsibility; the policy is precisely to prevent and avoid foreseeable accidents. Secondly, it is not because of consistency with the policies that we have been proposing and also by promoting at European level, because of coherence with our defence of ambitious public investment policies, because of coherence with the flexibility of the Stability and Growth Pact, of a more expansive monetary policy on the part of the European Central Bank, of tax reforms, especially in the fight against tax evasion. What we are defending, ladies and gentlemen, for the whole of the European Union we are also defending for Greece. Thirdly, for solidarity, a value which the Spanish right clearly lacks. Greece must fulfil its obligations, because they are common obligations, ladies and gentlemen, and the Union must facilitate the support, the means and the flexibility necessary for Greece to fulfil them, with the demand for effort, but also with realism. The first step must be the unequivocal commitment to fulfil them, because it is up to the Greeks themselves that it is their priority to address the profound changes that their country needs. It was, ladies and gentlemen, a Greek right-wing government that deceived the European Union with its country's economic data. [[Applauds]] It was, yes, ladies and gentlemen, Greece itself that allowed an unjust and inefficient tax system to survive, ineffective in pursuing fraud and tax evasion. It is now the Greek Government's duty to deal with these problems and to resolve them. The solution is not in the search for useless confrontations with the European Union, it is not in permanently assigning to others the responsibility for their own failures; nor in hindering and extending negotiations in the face of the objective deterioration of the situation, both in terms of growth and capital movements. And of course there is not the solution in the exacerbation of epic symbols that feed populist narrative, but that bring nothing to the needs of Greek citizens. But the worrying thing about it, returning to Spain, Mr Rajoy, is that in the midst of all this the role of your Government, your own, Mr Rajoy, cannot be more contradictory with what is of interest to Spain, because everything the Union can do for Greece will be beneficial for the south of the European Union. Seek accordingly, Mr Rajoy, allies for our country to be where it should be. Let it be said that Spain and Italy together have contributed more funds to help Greece than Germany itself: 32% of the sum between Spain and Italy compared to 29.15% of Germany. But we have not been in any mini-summit where the Greek crisis has been dealt with, for example on 19 March. Ladies and gentlemen, in the dynamics of European construction over the past 60 years there have been two axes of articulation, one dividing Europeanists from anti-Europeanists, and the other separating progressives from conservatives. It is curious, but the great progress of the European Union throughout history was made with a conservative European Chancellor such as Helmut Kohl, and with two European socialist presidents such as Felipe González and Jacques Delors. Today, ladies and gentlemen, understanding is much more difficult, because European conservatives have become dry neoconservatives, embracing austere theses that liquidate social cohesion by calling into question the social market economy, which is the basis of the European project. Mr. Rajoy, look, if that's true, believe me I'm glad you had a good relationship with Mrs. Merkel. I am glad; but I wonder whether such a good relationship should serve only to place Mr De Guindos at the forefront or as president of the Eurogroup. [[Rumors]] Yes, because, on what basis does your affinity with Mrs Merkel rest, Mr Rajoy? The German Chancellor presides over a European creditor state with an unemployment rate of 5%, and you preside over a debtor country with a rate of more than 20% unemployment. Would it not therefore be appropriate, Mr Rajoy, to tell Mrs Merkel that as long as the eurozone has an inflation close to zero it will make it difficult to recover from indebted economies like ours? I'd tell you, Mr. Rajoy. Would it not be appropriate for you to tell Germany that it must boost domestic private consumption in order to improve our exports? I'd tell you, Mr. Rajoy. Would it not be appropriate, Mr Rajoy, to remind Mrs Merkel that she is making more of a point of growth of gross domestic product by consolidating public accounts in our country than all the contrary policies of adjustment to the welfare state, and to science and innovation in our country? And that under the neocon cry of not being able to live above our possibilities you have achieved that there are many Spaniards who live below our needs? I'd tell you, Mr. Rajoy. Your affinity with Mrs Merkel has nothing to do with Europe: it is purely and simply ideology. The chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, commends the advanced student; and you, applied and willing, are grateful even if the interests of the majority of Spaniards are opposed to those defended by the German chancellor. [[Several Members: Oh!-Applause]] You, Mr Rajoy, claim that citizens assume that the economy and well-being are incompatible, and that is not true; that it is not possible to enjoy economic development and to maintain the rights achieved in health, education, and the labour market, but that is not true. You tell us that if we want a recovery this has to be unfair, a recovery in exchange for giving up the dignity of a good job and a good salary. They want citizens to resign, to conform to a Europe and to a Spain of inequalities: an aspiration proper to their ideology, but which is contrary to the European project. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to strengthen, both in Spain and in Europe, the pact between generations, what we have to do is to strengthen our welfare state, which you are far from doing. Is it necessary to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the best ally of the intergenerational pact is the educational system and the social lift it sets in motion? That the best pact between generations makes it possible for the sick to depend on the healthy, the old of the young, the unemployed on whom he is employed? To the extent that you drive your demolition, you fatten that inequality in which you have never focused your intervention, Mr Rajoy, by erasing the pact between generations at Spanish and European level. Look, you have referred to the good data that the International Monetary Fund published yesterday, and believe me, Mr Rajoy, if I tell you that we are happy with the improvement in the growth forecasts of our economy, you know that we hate the Montoso doctrine, but you will also understand, Mr Rajoy, that we have serious doubts that you are responsible for the fall of oil, even if welcome is the improvement of the economic environment. However, the International Monetary Fund also warns that the medium-term growth potential of developed economies will not recover pre-crisis levels, warns that productivity growth cannot be expected to accelerate with the current policies, yours, which you have chosen, Mr Rajoy. Without an increase in public investment it will not be possible to recover pre-crisis growth and employment rates. In addition, the fund in another recent report concludes that inequality, the income gap, is narrowing the stronger collective bargaining. This is what the International Monetary Fund says: inequalities are reduced the stronger the collective bargaining, Mrs Báñez; the more the population is formed, Mr Wert, and the stronger the welfare state. It is exactly, Mr Rajoy, quite the opposite of what you are doing from La Moncloa. If we want to take advantage of the tailwind that the improvement of the economic environment brings, then we have to support the whole of the European Union in the purchase of debt in secondary markets that the central bank is doing, and in a transitional way we will have to push up prices and wages in order to facilitate consumption and reduce public debt, which is fundamental in our country, and not abandon the horizon of debt sharing, which is precisely what you are no longer talking about. Mr Rajoy, we welcome a single energy market, a common energy policy that decisively fights climate change, that eradicates energy poverty - which you did not talk about in your speech, and which affects 54 million Europeans -. In our view, this should be the fight thanks to the boost of energy efficiency that will reduce consumption by 40% by 2030, and increase consumption of renewables to 45% by 2030. That is our proposal and not the non-binding agreement of 27 %, ladies and gentlemen, for the Member States adopted in the Council last October. My group is committed to 20% of the Juncker Plan's resources for investment in energy efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the announced interconnections, but we would like, Mr Rajoy, to make the 10% target for 2020 and 15% for 2030 binding, and it is not binding today. I will also tell you that the Juncker Plan is well oriented towards what we believe is the key to growth, which is productive investment, but it is also - let us admit - insufficient the amount earmarked for the Juncker Plan. Of course, we still do not know what Spain's priorities are, what projects, what our contribution will be, the role of the ICO, coordination with the European Investment Bank or the role of the financial sector. With the exception of the expansion of the capital of the European Investment Bank, there are also no contributions of fresh money, and you announced a few days ago that we will devote 1.5 billion euros, much less than the 8 billion euros that Germany, France and Italy are going to allocate. On the content of the Juncker Plan, the European Fund for Strategic Investments, in our view, should not select projects with exclusively cost-effectiveness criteria, but should also have criteria that place those receiving countries, especially those with high unemployment rates, such as Spain, above 20%. I would like to know whether or not you agree with this position and whether you proposed it at the European Council. In any case, I would like to point out that this expenditure should not be calculated for deficit purposes, and I ask Mr Rajoy to say whether he has raised it in Brussels, for the moment we do not know anything about it. For Spain, it would be a priority from the point of view of meeting the deficit targets, because we have a deficit of 5.7% of gross domestic product, Mr Montoro. So you, Mr Rajoy, should not boast of such budgetary rigour, because your rigour is always at the expense of others. We have just heard, ladies and gentlemen, that despite all the cuts in rights, the increase in public debt, we have barely cut the public deficit since you came to the government. Yes, Mr Rajoy, between 2010 and 2011, in full economic recession and with a much higher risk premium than the current one, the previous government reduced the government deficit by 2.1 points of gross domestic product. In the last two years, with much more favourable external conditions and a good dose of accounting engineering from the Minister of Finance, you have only reduced the public deficit of the General Administration of the State by 9 tenths, and have made rest all the effort of fiscal consolidation in the autonomous communities and in the local entities. But, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in five years the structural deficit has increased, Mr Montoro, and the forecasts for this year point to a further deterioration of the structural balance. With these figures, Mr Rajoy, how can you boast of budgetary rigour? It will be the autonomous communities and the municipalities, but you cannot; you cannot boast of that budgetary rigour. With regard to the negotiations between the United States and the European Union, my group is clearly committed to free trade, but always respecting European environmental, labour and welfare standards. My group has called for impact reports in our country, as other countries have done, and for the Government to appear in the Courts after each round of negotiations has been closed. We need to give transparency to the negotiation, and the Commission has made it clear that it is up to the Member States, in this case the Government of Spain, to make an effort to communicate the status of the TTIP negotiations; that is, it is you, Mr Rajoy, your Government, who has to appear in this Congress to explain the status of those negotiations. There are encouraging developments in the fight against tax fraud at European level: the problem of multinational tax planning, transparency in tax agreements between companies and national authorities, harmonisation of corporate taxes, more ambitious financial transaction tax or evaluation of the new savings directive. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Spain should lead that agenda together with the European Commission. A few weeks ago my parliamentary group registered a proposal for a tax to avoid the diversion of profits by multinationals, especially by multinationals, as the United Kingdom proposes - by the way, there they call it Google tax - and I encourage you, Mr Rajoy, to review it and to work together in an active way to combat tax evasion and avoidance in our country. Unfortunately, the Spanish Government cannot lead the fight against fraud and transparency in Europe because it simply cannot set an example, Mr Montoro, either because the political direction of the Tax Agency is more likely to justify than to pursue the fiscal fraud of the People's Party, or because there are serious doubts - in my opinion there are - about whether it is proper or improper for Minister Montoro to constitute a firm that is the paradigm of the revolving door, or at the same time; but the truth is that you are fighting tax fraud, no lesson, about tax amnesty, all; all; all. [[Applauds]] By the way, Mr Rajoy, in Rodrigo Rato had Mr Montoro a great teacher to talk about tax amnesties and apply them. I am finishing, ladies and gentlemen, by making a mention of Ukraine and Libya. Since the Minsk II process is developing, although imperfectly, it does not seem that this is the time to increase sanctions against Russia, although the existing ones should be maintained until Moscow's attitude to conflict resolution is effective. With regard to Libya, I would like to express our solidarity and the horror that has caused us to know about the tragedy that happened yesterday in the Mediterranean with 400 immigrants killed on the Italian coasts, which shows that we urgently need to resolve the crisis in Libya. In any case, the substantive debate is whether a possible political agreement on a government of national unity in Libya is supported by all available means. And of course we recognize the work of compatriot Bernardino León, whose dedication praises not only the United Nations, but also the European Council in its conclusions, and which should undoubtedly serve as an acquittal to achieving that goal of recovering the influence lost by his Government in Europe, and in all international institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, I conclude. I end with a paradox, because it is paradoxical that you defend in Brussels policies such as the Juncker Plan, which in the end are incentives to aggregate demand, when you in Spain do just the opposite. The Juncker Plan has nothing to do with the policies that the Government of Spain has been implementing in our country for three years, a policy that has driven away job-creating investment and favored job-creating disinvestment through labour reform designed for easy dismissal and precarious recruitment. The above, ladies and gentlemen, is clear - for example only - in investment in R & D+i. Spanish expenditure on innovation was 1.24% of gross domestic product in 2013 compared to the European average of 2%, or above, well above 2% in some cases, such as Germany. A further test of the path taken by his Government, an unjust recovery that harms precisely the majority of Spaniards; a recovery at the expense of dismantling the welfare state and dismantling and dismantling the engines of future economic growth. A fair economic recovery will only be possible, ladies and gentlemen, with an Executive that governs for the majority and that, Mr Rajoy, is not so for you. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Duran i Lleida has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, as you recalled, this is a debate that should have taken place on 25 March, but the tragedy of the Germanwings Barcelona-Dusseldorf air accident prevented it. This House, in its plenary session, has already kept a minute of silence; that was a solidarity expressed on our part with the families of the victims and today we want to renew from this rostrum, by recalling that event, our solidarity and our affection for all of them. This is a Council which - you know better than I - is not as much responsible for making decisions as it is for the Councils at the end of the first quarter - also in autumn - but rather for pushing, deliberating, declaring, etc. I am not going to define the overall outcome of the Council, which does not seem to me to be a bad Council. I am going to focus more on explaining the content and opinion of this parliamentary group on that content than on very important qualifications in this regard. The Council did not speak of Greece and, in fact, the conclusions do not contain the word Greece once, but Greece was the subject of that mini-summit, to which reference was made earlier, between the President of the Commission, the President of the European Council, the President of the Eurogroup, Chancellor Angela Merkel, the President of the Italian Council of Ministers and the President of the Republic of the Netherlands. Spain was not and I would like to know, Mr President, the reasons for that absence and, above all, to say that I do not share - I think it was unfortunate - its explanation when asked about this absence - at least that I read in the media - saying that it was not there because nothing important was going to be decided. Frankly, I find it difficult to see Mrs Merkel present at some meeting to waste time; others who attended perhaps yes or some in singular, but I find it difficult to see Mrs Merkel in a meeting to waste time. Mr President, I would simply like to know why on such an important issue as that of Greece - to which I am going to devote a few minutes, although, I repeat, the word does not even appear in one of the paragraphs of the conclusions of this Council - Spain was not present in that mini-summit or permanent directory - I do not know exactly how to refer to that type of meeting - and I would also like to know your opinion on whether that is a precedent for solving major problems or was purely a coincidence and the assistants were chosen on the basis of interests which you will undoubtedly clarify in this House. On Greece I just want to say two things: firstly, that there have been counterproductive attitudes, information or gestures on the part of both the Community institutions and the Greek side and, secondly, that I do not think it is fair or positive that the European institutions should insinuate the possibility of the exit of the euro from Greece because, while it is true that it simply represents 2% of the European gross domestic product, it is also true that, to the extent that Greece came out of the euro, it would mean that we would project the feeling that the euro is not an irreversible reality. And for the European interest - after all, we are talking not about domestic policy but about European policy, but also European policy today is already domestic policy for us - the irreversibility of the euro is undoubtedly one of the strongholds of the European Union's strength today. But Greece has also made mistakes. I believe that the Government of Greece is raising smokescreens. What's the point of seizing German goods? What is the point of this claim to Germany for World War II? From these examples we could go back to so many others, to claim compensation for various and varied issues. What is done is simply to raise smokescreens to try to justify that what is being implemented from the Government has nothing to do with what was promised throughout the electoral campaign. But Greece is necessarily the European Union, the European Union needs Greece and Greece needs the European Union. Of course, what Greece has to do is comply with the commitments made to the European Union. And the European Union must be very sensitive; it has been and we congratulate the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, when he allocates a large amount of billions of euros to alleviate the effects of a deep social crisis in Greece. It is true that what we are experiencing today is a result of previous governments, some with which my party - not the coalition - has been involved for many years. And not just this one, but also the Pasoc, the Socialist Party. The two major Greek parties are responsible for what has been the administration of the government, with the lack of a fiscal policy not only but also redistributive among the various contributing sectors in Greece. I am going to what is the subject of the Council's conclusions, what appears in them and what was formally discussed within them. As you have already mentioned, and as the conclusions themselves say, there are three basic themes: union for energy, growth and employment - the review of the semester - and external relations. In each area, Convergence i Unió would like to convey some reflection to you. With regard to energy union, no one will discuss Europe's need for a union in the field of energy. Europe needs unity in general and in particular in the field of energy. Not just in this area, but also - and a lot - in this area. You know, Mr President - and you must know all those who are listening to us - that the European Union imports more than half of the energy it consumes and that it has very significant deficits mainly because it imports 99.9% of the oil it consumes, as does 66.6% of the gas it consumes. In short, the energy bill we pay for all Europeans is €40 billion a year as a result of these shortcomings. It is proposed to unite for energy, today even more in the field of good words than in the field of concrete realities, although it is true - and then I will talk about it - that progress has been made in some respects. To the extent that it results in lower costs for both consumers, individuals and families, as well as for businesses, there is undoubtedly an increase in welfare, increased spending capacity for families and increased competitiveness for businesses. This same union for energy involves investment promotion. So, how are we not going to agree with her. This same union for energy involves increasing competition in the sector. Therefore, how are we not going to be in favour of it as we have always been. Convergence and Union in the field of union for energy has always defended electrical and gas interconnections. You will recall, Mr President, that the first time in this House that Medcat was spoken of was after a question asked by the spokesman for Convergence i Unió - your servant - to ask the government to bet on Medcat. And not simply that, but that he did everything in his power in the European Union and in his bilateral relationship with France to bet on Medcat. We are very happy with the electrical connection, which is one of the facts - not simply intentions, realities already - between France and Spain. You recently attended the L-Empordà installation of that electrical connection. It is true - and we have no reservations about it - that your Government has worked positively in that direction, as the Socialist Government has done before. And although you sometimes forget - because on some occasion, in terms of electoral slogans, I have heard: we do work -, I must remind you, Mr President of the Government, that only you could do what you have done - the government of the State, now of the PP, before the Socialist Party - but Convergence i Unió has given its face on the ground. And it has done so at the expense of electoral sacrifices, sometimes at the expense of losing candidates and councillors. Why? Because above the party interest was the country interest; Catalonia, as Spain is interested in, was interested in this electrical interconnection. Therefore, of course we are happy with these interconnections. I repeat to you again, as regards what I mentioned earlier about the Medcat, that, since there are European funds to deal with the Medcat, the French political will seems to me to be so much or more important. Therefore, Mr President of the Government, take any opportunity on the bilateral agenda with France to emphasize the need to consider Medcat as a gas connection that will give Spain great geopolitical importance. We also value the agreement between France, Portugal and Spain, through the Commission of the European Union, and the EIB - no harm to remember it. We believe that this is another positive step. The advantages of an energy union, which is what this European Council defines, are many and clear. The interconnection of entry markets makes Europe and Spain more stable. Both of them have great geopolitical value. But I do not want to analyse this union of energy simply from the perspective of economic costs, which is already very positive. I believe that we must also look at the union of energy from a geopolitical perspective, from the added value it gives to European foreign policy, because as Europeans we are, we want a common foreign policy to exist. This is what brings - now I'm going to try to explain it - the union for energy. The United States, to give an example, with the so-called revolution in non-conventional hydrocarbons, especially shale gas, has done a 20% reduction in prices. Apart from the prices, which is where I want to go, what else do you get? By ensuring non-dependence on third parties in energy terms, the United States is more powerful and can change its foreign policy. Well, to the extent that the Energy Union does not simply have economic repercussions for Europe, for citizens, for families and for businesses, it will also have them in another European objective, which is foreign policy. Or should we not have dealt differently with the crisis in Ukraine having - as we now have - or not having Russia's energy dependence? Of course I do. We would be more sovereign, if I may say so, as Europeans in foreign policy if we had that energy independence that we certainly do not have today. Today the European Union is clearly vulnerable. It is so much because of this threat which is sometimes enshrined in terms of energy cuts on the part of Russia as because of the instability of the Middle East, on the one hand, and North Africa, on the other. That is why we stress the value of this energy union also from this point of view. The more sufficient we are, the better we can play our cards in foreign policy. For the union of energy we need, however, to go beyond good intentions, beyond interconnections, and I have already put into value what I said before about a few of them. We need efficiency, which is also being demanded by the European Union itself. There is a directive for this. Why is there such a directive on efficiency - I will use the title of an article used by Professor Alfredo Pastor - not done? Why is there a plan - of which the humorist and architect Peridis would explain to us all kinds of details - that could be applied to a park of houses and public buildings, an investment plan, not of consumption, that would involve being able to occupy part of the workers of thirty, forty or fifty years product of the real estate bubble, some of them without other type of formation, does not apply that plan, which on the other hand in terms of costs would certainly be positive? A plan that, in short, would be positive for the long-term unemployed, for the training of workers without a job that the field of construction did not in its day allow them to realize, and that at the same time would reduce our energy bill and serve to mitigate the negative impact that the economic crisis has had on the construction sector. Therefore, if the plan exists and if the European Union asks us to do so and the conclusions of this European Council itself talk about energy efficiency, why, Mr President of the Government, Spain does not implement a plan, this or another concrete one, to help and influence energy efficiency? We need not only to have a European energy framework, Mr President - I have told you repeatedly from this rostrum and my colleagues, especially those responsible for energy or industrial policies - we also need a framework at state level, a framework at Spanish level. In Spain there is no energy policy - I have said it a thousand times - there is a tax policy on energy, which is different. In this House, in this Parliament, a special subcommittee was set up in the previous legislature, within the Committee on Energy, to agree on all the parliamentary groups, or at least the large majority, in a future mix that could make clear what the energy plan for the whole state is for the next twenty-five or thirty years. In the end, it was his parliamentary group that took off. This, ours, that of Convergence i Unió - which, by the way, promoted, along with you, the creation of that subcommission -, continues today to demand the need for a plan, for an agreement between the more political forces better, which defines what are the energy priorities of the whole State. Therefore, not just a European energy framework, but also an energy framework at the state level. Second chapter of the European Council: growth and employment in the context of this reflection on the semester. I would like to recall - it is nothing more than reading the conclusions - that the European Council endorsed the three main pillars of the annual forward-looking study on growth, i.e. investment, structural reforms and fiscal consolidation. Allow me to reflect a little deeper on the subject of investment. Mr Sánchez referred to the Juncker Plan - you, too, in your speech - and I would like to give some thought to that. The Juncker Plan exists to unlock private investments, and to do so, we must optimize all the forecasts, the effects of the plan being not insufficient, not late and the effects being modest. On the other hand, from now on - and we have also repeated this on several occasions in this House since Convergence i Unió - when we talk about investments, and that is the Juncker Plan philosophy, that is the philosophy of the European Union, we must bear in mind that investments must be made not by strictly political criteria, but also by political criteria, but must be prioritized on the basis of the quality and effectiveness of the project, and that they promote growth, that they promote competitiveness, that they promote occupation. This Holy Week I had the opportunity to visit a Spanish autonomous community, beautiful by the way, and I saw - now I was commenting with Pere Macias - very small villages that at the exit had a kilometer or a little more than a kilometer of a very wide sidewalk with lights that illuminate throughout the day, or viewpoints with bicycles to do gymnastics, all fruit of an investment plan that bears the name of PlanE, Plan España, Plan Zapatero; that is not investment. The other day at the Spanish-Italian Forum held in Barcelona, the entrepreneurs or institutional representatives were talking about ending the investments of cathedrals in the desert. I think the metaphor is good, we have to end the investment of cathedrals in the desert, we have to invest where there is productivity. In this sense, certain investments in AVE continue to be questioned by our parliamentary group; it is not that our parliamentary group questions this; it is that Fedea has recently drawn two reports on 25 March, when this debate was to be held which had to be postponed for what we explained earlier, in which it was said that there was no sense of a certain type of investment in high speed as we had fewer users per kilometre of track length than any other country with AVE structure. Solidarity and territorial cohesion were excused from the Ministry of Development. That is not true, it is not territorial cohesion because high speed does not help to deconcentrate economic activity, Mr President. The high speed what it does is to concentrate more economic activity. Therefore, high speed is not in favour of territorial cohesion, high speed affects territorial cohesion. Another thing is that for reasons of this territorial cohesion, of territorial balance, of knowing that it is important for the rural world, of knowing that it is not simply important for large cities to make railway connections of speed that are acceptable for them to be united. But the great problem of this type of investment is nothing other than, Mr President, to continue with the obsession of radial Spain. That is, for me, the fundamental axis of rail investment policy, and that is the reason why the unwarranted investment that even its bodies, and in any case the academic world, consider to be completely useless and very expensive for all citizens. We are close to St. Jordi, I know that in many plenarys it is fashionable to come down and give a book to the President. I am not going to do that, but I do recommend reading a book, Spain, capital Paris, by Germà Bel, which was in its day a Member of this House; a good book to understand, from concrete facts and figures, why the barbarity of continuing with that radial investment. The second issue I would like to stress in this economic area is the negotiations with the United States on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. Mr President, we need Europe to explain to the United States that it is very important that the negotiations on this agreement be concluded during the current term of office of President Obama. Again with another Administration, and more so if the Administration changed its political colour, it would be very negative for European interests. Speaking of that treaty with the United States, I am aware that in public opinion there must be the imagination that the agreement is negative for Europe and for our economic and commercial interests, among other reasons because politicians and their own Government speak little about this treaty, what its contents are. We have to explain to the public, we have to give this public the reasons, which are several, for which this treaty is positive. First of all, it is especially so for SMEs. Any multinational has the capacity to penetrate the American market. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not have that capacity, and from the content of this future treaty, the necessary frameworks for strengthening and enabling these SMEs to enter the American market are emerging. On the other hand, Spain, and especially Catalonia, has a very strong agri-food sector, a sector that is very difficult to penetrate into the American market. It must be explained that the conditions of that treaty would also be positive in terms of being able to break the borders that exist today. Are there sectors concerned about this treaty? Yeah, there's always been. He recalled the other day that in the Italian-Spanish Forum, a director-general of the Commission said that when the European treaty with Korea was negotiated there was a lot of reluctance on the part of Europeans and many other sectors, including the car sector. What happened next? That we have reinvested the figures of the trade relationship with Korea. We had deficit and today we have surplus. Europe must therefore not be afraid and as Europeans we must not be afraid of opening up markets because it is positive for Europeans, it is positive for our entrepreneurs, it is positive for job creation, it is positive for wealth generation and therefore for the ability to distribute it. One must remember once and a thousand times that if wealth is not created, it cannot be divided, by many promises of paradise made that the day after winning the elections will be done this, that or that beyond. Therefore, Mr President, our support for the negotiation. Of course, we need to see the small letter to know whether or not we fully support that treaty that is being negotiated with the United States. And, if I may, I would like to congratulate the Commission, not its Government, on the efforts to ensure transparency in this negotiation. There is a European Union website that provides timely information on all the contents of the negotiation, a website that does not exist in the US Administration. As an example of what I think is a spirit of work for the new Juncker Commission, in positive terms is the presence here a few weeks ago of Commissioner Cecilia Malmström, responsible for this negotiation. For me these are two examples of transparency on the part of the Commission of the European Union. I now turn to two issues of the chapters dealt with at the European Council, namely foreign relations, that of Russia-Ukraine and that of Libya. President Prodi said this week in a statement following his last book, Mission Unfulfilled, that Ukraine should be the bridge between Russia and the European Union, not a battlefield. And what Ukraine is being is not a bridge between the European Union and Russia but a battlefield. I believe that, after the reflection of President Prodi, the Russians and the European Union should guide policy in that direction. Russia must know that it needs the European Union, but the European Union must not have Russia as its enemy; that is a mistake. The other thing is that, from a situation which Russia basically created, we have been forced into the Minsk, I and II agreements, and that it is logically necessary for the European Union to demand compliance with those agreements. And another thing is the sanctions that can be derived from these agreements, sanctions that I hope the European Union will renew. If you are going to renew them, Mr President, I am already asking your Government, your Minister of Agriculture - which I do not see at the moment in your seat, but which was previously in plenary - and the European Union itself to prepare the alternative plan for the consequences of the renewal of the measures against Russia. Why? Because last year it was the agricultural and livestock sector that paid the bill. Therefore, in time, you prepare the effects of that new veto of sale of goods to Russia so that you do not re-pay the bill the same as you did last year. Let us also make Russia understand that it weakens its confrontation with the European Union and we understand - and it is very important - that Russia needs to keep a safe area. I know, Mr President - and that would put an end to my thinking because time is also running out - that there are different sensibilities in the European Union. How can I not understand it! It cannot be the same sensitivity as that of the President of Poland as that of the President of Spain. I know that and it is logical that this should be the case and, therefore, the synthesis of these sensitivities sometimes leads to decisions that we have not just enjoyed at all. I also know that in the framework of the Atlantic Alliance American sensibility is not the same as European sensibility, but I refer again to the one I mentioned at the beginning of this chapter when dealing with the issue of Russia-Ukraine, which is President Prodi. America - said Prodi, and I completely agree - is our great friend, but it is not Europe. Europe therefore has and must have its position that it does not necessarily have and must be identical to that of the United States. Finally, I'm going to talk to you about Libya, Mr. President. Libya is a failed show of state. A country divided into two parts, the western part touching Tunisia with what is - and then I will refer to it - all the power of jihadism in that area. The deterioration of Libya is, in our view, a challenge and also a threat. Challenge, why? Because it means the inability not only of Europe but of Europe and the United States, for the many efforts made by the international community - and in this regard we thank and applaud Bernardino León, on behalf of the United Nations - to replace the State of Gaddafi with another democratic State. It is not the first case in which Europe and the Western world fail and it is not the first case of failed statehood. But now we are talking about Libya, because Libya is talking about the conclusions of the European Council. Therefore, there is a failure and a challenge there, which is also the inability to control immigration. Mr Sánchez referred earlier to the news - which I do not know if it is confirmed - that 400 people, most of them children, have left their lives in a barge trying to get to European shores, and not only is it a tragedy but it is a shame for the Western world and a shame especially for the European world, because we do not spend what we should spend in those African countries to avoid immigration, we do not act as we should in the first place. It's a threat too. Why? Because, as you saw in Tunisia's bombing, the two of you...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u7	Mr. Duran, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u8	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. Then, in any case, if there is nothing very serious, I will eat the replica and not intervene. He said that the two perpetrators of the attack in Tunisia are two persons formed in Libya, formed within the jihadist framework. One thing is happening to us with Libya, which can be a runner for Boko Haram from Nigeria and we can meet a second caliphate a few kilometers from the European coasts. And that's of extreme gravity. Therefore, Mr President, the question of Libya must be taken very, very seriously. We are celebrating the meeting of Foreign Ministers on Monday in Barcelona and the right to convene that meeting. The conclusions are positive: there is a lot of good intention, but we have to go further. It is true that, as stated in the conclusions of that meeting, it is necessary to be effective from the legal-police perspective, of course, and this parliamentary group will always be happy with any success of the police. Never will this parliamentary group, none of our leaders, make any kind of statement to distract public opinion from the success of the Police, whether it be the Catalan or any other state security corps or force, be it the Mosso d'Esquadra, the National Police or the Civil Guard - congratulations to each other -. He points out that if we are in an international struggle, we must give the Ertzaintza, the Mosso d'Esquadra the instruments of connection with the International Police, because we are facing an international challenge but some policemen do not have the same capacity to fight as others. I am not going to fuel any controversy with what I am going to say next, Mr President, but I want to make it very clear that we are not in a religious struggle; we are not in a struggle against Islamic leaders. It's another thing, it's the struggle of civilization against barbarism. We represent civilization, and seeking differences between those who represent civilization in order to obtain political revenues is an irresponsibility. Therefore, from this point of view, we will always support any attitude of any police force, I insist, to fight, as is its obligation, against jihadism. Attention! - sometimes we don't realize - because Islamophobia is growing, and that's not good. It is not good in the line of defense of the coexistence of religions in our societies. It is not independence or I don't know what else jihadism promotes; there are jihadists everywhere, in Catalonia, in Spain, in Europe. I end up with two thoughts. Why is this happening to us, Mr. President? Well, in my opinion, for two reasons basically. First, a reality is occurring, as the secularisation of Europe is increasing - not a Christian Democrat says it but Hartmann, for example, although I agree with him - at the same time the conversions to Islam are increasing. A serious, in-depth debate on this issue must be opened. And, second - let us not forget -, beyond these conversions, which occur very often, there are where lack of values coincide - the need to seek some reference in terms of values - with poverty, exclusion and misery. In this - I repeat - with tranquillity, with common sense, without demagogy, without prejudice, a debate must be opened, and without any kind of fundamentalism, either of one or of the other. Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your benevolence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Duran. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, I do not know if you are aware, but the first thing that must be seen today is that it is beginning to be unsustainable for the dignity of our country that you appear in the European Councils once in a while with the backpack increasingly charged with corruption. [[The lady]] We have to say this because the question that needs to be asked is: what credibility can a country that has as president of the government the president of a party that is corrupted by corruption? This is not just a problem of political weight, but of legitimacy, of moral authority, and unfortunately corruption is not a good companion for that. That may possibly be the reason why you, in order to be forgiven for that democratic scourge, that lack of legitimacy, behaves like the hammer of heretics against all those who oppose the policies of the troika. This is the only way to explain the aggressiveness that you and your Government have had, that role that has been self-governed by the government and the Greek people, which you inconceivably do against the interests of Spanish citizens. Mr Rajoy, you understand once and for all that the Spanish people are interested in opening the way to proposals for debt restructuring. Don't you ever do the same to me again, confuse that with default or exit from the euro; don't cheat. We are talking about debt restructuring as has always been done in all financial crises of this nature; a restructuring that will allow for the rebalancing of efforts and sacrifices between debtors and creditors. For that you must stop bullying the government and the Greek people, you cannot bear that aggression that you are maintaining. The indebtedness, Mr Rajoy, is not explained by that Lutheran vision of exemplary savers and irresponsible debtors. This is a manipulation of public opinion - you know it - although you are the main Spanish accomplice since the beginning of this legislature and against our interests and the image of the Spanish people. The origin of our debt is not an excess of public spending, but of indebtedness up to the eyebrows of financial institutions that reaped out of self-interest a speculative machine and that now want - they will succeed - to come out of rositas. You say you are opposed to debt restructuring because debts have to be paid. Mr Rajoy, if you have been the President of the Government who has imposed the most unfair of the restructurings and reorganizations of the debt. What, if not, is the conversion of the private debt of banks into public debt that you have imposed in this country? What have you done during this legislature? That is an anti-social reorganization and restructuring of debt because it has taken private debt and turned it into public debt. They now claim that for years generations of Spaniards are working to satisfy the interests of creditors who at least are necessary accomplices to this disaster. It is true that this is increasingly complicated because you, like other European governments, have turned that private debt into public debt and now the debate is how and how this cost is borne. By the way, Mr. Rajoy, let's see if you're telling the Spanish the truth once and for all. He began by saying that the rescue was not going to cost the citizens anything; in one way or another he has been insisting on it, but already yesterday his governor of the Banco de España acknowledged that at least 40 billion euros - I repeat, at least - will not be recovered and will be paid by the citizens for a double, with taxes, cuts and indebtedness in future generations. This Council, as you have reminded us, has also been the Energy Union Council and has ended with a laudable declaration of good intentions. Let me tell you that, in our view, the Council's proposals do not point to a coherent and sustainable model that guarantees energy sovereignty. Mr Rajoy, there is no guarantee of sustainability or energy sovereignty by betting on massive imports of gas or by prolonging the lives of nuclear power plants or by massive authorizations for the extraction of unconventional hydrocarbons, fracking. Understand this once and for all and listen to the alternatives that we are proposing to you: strategies of energy efficiency and reduction of consumption, a commitment decided by the renewables, addressing the human drama of energy poverty and a system of interconnection that is not at the service of the big corporations but of a change of model. Renewables, Mr Rajoy, are the best bet to reduce greenhouse gases and can be one of Europe's major economic drivers, as confirmed by a recent report by the European Environment Agency. Instead, you and your Government are heading in the opposite direction. They have deployed an extraordinary aggressiveness against renewables and self-consumption, with the argument of the cost in the form of subsidies to those energies, renewables, forgetting the combined cycle power plants and the great fraud that at the moment is supposed to be paying for investments that were only of interest to the builders, and that we are now idle. Of course, when the wind blows things go well, especially if the wind blows in favor, Mr Rajoy; small truth has you said today. Its energy policy is the sum of a lack of transparency, improvisation and, above all, submission to the electric lobby of this country, with unbearable costs for the citizens. It is already clear that his Government lied in this House with non-existent reports to justify the reduction of aid for renewable energy. He has made Spain one of the most insecure countries in the world to invest, except - of course - for his friends. They have caused hundreds of judicial claims that can cost one fortune - another - to the citizenry. It's raining on wet. They do not claim the EUR 3.4 billion overpaid to electricians in costs of transition to competition. They indemnify the owners of Castor for a failed investment of which they are at least co-responsible. You are right; in those matters, in those fiascos, the merit is not only yours, but you share it, and quite well, with the Zapatero Government. That these barbarities are not only his merit and that they have been perpetrated with two hands confirms an even more serious aspect, that the Governments of this country end up being kidnapped by the electric oligopoly. That's the real problem. Get rid of those ties, of those attachments, agree to negotiate with the other groups, implement a policy of transparency. Why do they not once and for all commission an independent audit of the electricity tariff deficit that allows a stable system once and for all, which does not change every six months? They present an energy transition plan in which they bet on energy savings and efficiency, renewables and self-consumption. Let's all bet on sustainable mobility with the railway boost, to the detriment of the fuel lobby that is profited when the price of oil rises and also when it falls. Mr Rajoy, this is our alternative so that you don't tell us after we don't make proposals to you. As for the Juncker Plan, Europe needs sustainable growth, and that requires the leadership of the public sector, exactly the opposite of what the Juncker Plan does, which has as much credibility as the character that gives it name, none. Someone who has dedicated himself in his country during his responsibility, in his Government, to allowing the circumvention of large corporations should not be at the head of any institution in Europe, because he has no authority to address the drama of tax havens and tax circumvention. The Juncker Plan currently has more of a milk story than anything else, as has happened before with the Barroso Plan 2012 or the Youth Guarantee Plan. Mr Rajoy, will you at some point present us with a review of the Youth Guarantee Plan so that we know exactly whether your music has any specific lyrics or impact on the young people of this country? I'm afraid not because you're not providing us with the information we're asking for. It is not credible, Mr Rajoy, that every euro of public investment should become 15 euros of private investment; giving in to private initiative is the guarantee that once again investments will be made not with criteria of economic efficiency and social cohesion but according to the interests of large corporations. That is not an accusation in the air, it is the evidence, as demonstrated by the AVE's unbridled bet to the detriment of the nearby railway in this country; something that has no logic from an economic or social point of view. You have referred, Mr Rajoy, to fiscal policies, but the councils - you know very well - are important for what they deal with but also for what they ignore. This Council has once again ignored the great problem of Europe, which is nothing other than a globalised economy without political governance and, above all, without a common fiscal policy. Steps have been taken, no doubt, but they are turtle-like and, in some case, backward or much worse. At the moment there is still a policy of tax dumping between European states, where fiscal harmonisation is competitive, downward fiscal harmonisation with tolerance for tax havens. Or what does it mean that we have to learn about what is happening in BPA through the intervention of the US authorities and us, who are close and who seem to have some links with Andorra - some more than others - let us continue with that, tax dumping, competitive tax harmonization and tax havens? It's the great drama. Meanwhile Europe is bleeding because it is not possible to make policies from anywhere if there is no fiscal capacity to do so and, above all, if tolerance is maintained with a financial system that acts as a four-lane highway to channel opaque money - black, and also red, yes, red, stained with blood -. That is the unfortunate reality of Europe right now. His policies, I insist, are scarce and slow. Why do you not apply the same speed to fiscal policies to combat tax havens that, for example, have applied to labour deregulation and to the bet against collective bargaining that you have practiced under the troika's dictate in the memorandum? Why for some things turtle speed and other cheetah speed? The reason, in short, I will give it to you: to fight tax havens is to fight your tax havens, yours and those of your protégés, who evade taxes while imposing social cuts and spend the day bragging about patriotism. Some patriots compete with other patriots while all are tax evaders. Minister Wert is very grateful for my comment on his tax havens, but soon he will have to ask himself to raise his hand on this side of the bench who does not have his money out of this country in an opaque or hidden way. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Soon; soon you'll have to ask yourself that. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u11	Mr. Coscubala, your debate is with the president... [[The Rumors Continue]] Silence! Its debate is with the President of the Government, not with the parliamentary group or with the voters of his party. So, please, in order not to have to give the floor to anyone, return to the debate with the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u12	I'm sorry, but I still don't understand the rules of this Congress and above all the vice president's concept of democracy. [[Rumors]] But I'll go...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u13	The Vice-President has a mission as long as she is President of this House: to respect the 350 Members who make up her. [[Applauds]] You cannot accuse Members who are not going to intervene of having tax havens; I don't care what they are, including yours. It is something I understand I must do, and I think that is democracy, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u14	I'm going on. If I may, I continue and then you read again and see that I have asked only one question. [[Rumors]] If anyone feels alluded to, it should be because maybe he understands that Mr. Mouse... [[The rumors continue.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u15	Continue the debate, Mr Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u16	I continue, Mrs Villalobos, Madam Vice-President, by saying what I think I have to say in the use of democratic legitimacy granted to me by the citizens who voted for me, whether you allow it or not. Do you understand? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I'm going on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u17	Mr. Coscubiela... [[The Rumors Continue]] Please, keep quiet! Mr. Coscubiela, that's not the point. You have to respect all the Members, that's all I've said to you, whatever the bench is. That is my obligation and I will continue to do so, Mr Coscubiela, no matter how much you scream. Continue the debate, Mr Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u18	I will continue the debate by recalling that there appear to be some leaders of the People's Party, including Rat, who have evaded their taxes, have evaded their fiscal responsibilities while insisting on calling for cuts in social rights and patriotism. I keep saying what I wanted to say, which is what that is; everyone knows it because in some cases it is even in the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, it does; the truth always does, of course. I continue with the transatlantic free trade agreement. Mr. Rajoy, since you're asking me to just discuss it with you, I'm going to try. It is another attack on the sovereignty of citizens and subjection to the markets. They present us as an area of free trade what can be - if we do not avoid it - another step in an economic globalization without political government. You know that this is an obscurantist negotiation, without information to the citizens, with total opacity. Even MEPs who ask for information and see the documentation are denied, or the information is offered under unworthy conditions, as our colleague Ernest Urtasun has denounced, who was put in a dark room with documentation without even being able to take handwritten notes. That is total obscurantism; if obscurantism is, it is because you cannot explain exactly what is behind that treaty. It is not a free trade area, it is not an economic area. It is an attempt to create another large economic space in which only private corporations govern, and which has no political government or, worse, that part of that political government is privatized, as in the resolution of conflicts, subjecting them not to the courts of justice but to private arbitration systems, which can be useful among individuals but which in no way can imply the imposition on States of policies as it is at some point happening. We have warned you and you have said this, it is a process of regulatory harmonisation, yes, of regulatory harmonisation. If the free trade agreement on investment and trade is put in place, if that treaty is put in place, there will be regulatory harmonization, but at a low level, in terms of less protection of the environment, public health, consumers and working conditions. I'm afraid you're an impenitent cynic. I'm sorry to tell you. You are crying about the lack of a common policy in the European Union that has made it possible to deal with the crisis; while you are crying about the lack of political depth in Europe, you are committed to creating another large economic area without political governance. That is his great goal: a globalization without rights, without rules and without democratic government that has the next stage in the TTIP. That is why our group, together with other social entities, called for global mobilizations this Saturday, April 18th on the streets of Europe: because we think that this battle can be won. Mr Rajoy, today you have not told us anything about the crisis being history even if its consequences are not. The consequences of the crisis are not history because the increase in precariousness and growing inequality and the enquisition and worsening of poverty are not the result of the crisis, they are the results of policies that have used the crisis as an alibi, as an opportunity to impose an antisocial and authoritarian model of society. What you call an exit from the crisis is nothing more than a shift to mass unemployment, widespread unemployment and structural underemployment. You are trying to make us believe that what is happening right now is the improvement of the labour market, and ultimately what is going on - that is the result of the labour reform voted for by the People's Group and Convergence i Unió - is that a model of the labour market and labour relations is being imposed that is increasingly precarious, with more and more wage degradation. That is the origin among others of the country's greatest inequality and poverty. Mr Rajoy, today there are 723,600 less full-time jobs in Spain than when you came to the government, today there are a million more long-term unemployed than in December 2011. Its exit road map leads us to more precariousness, more inequality and more poverty. Today there are more than 2 million people unemployed, 500,000 more than when you came to the government. That is unfortunately the reality, and it is not a problem of tendency, but that you lead us to a model of society in which working does not guarantee conditions of dignity. For this reason, poor workers are increasing; 12.3% of the working population have incomes below the poverty line. That is why, at the moment, having a part-time contract, that crown jewel of your labor reform, is a way to unsolidarily distribute the employment that punishes especially young people and women, we want you to talk about that. Let us also tell you that your policies are causing a bubble, an overoffer of precarious labour; so, with that overoffer of precarious labour it is impossible to have a productive tissue that is minimally competitive, because it feeds an idle productive tissue, and you know it. You have come up with a social project during this legislature that is based primarily on four levels: labour deregulation and wage degradation; privatization of public services, behind which there is usually business; centralisation of the state and at the same time a profoundly authoritarian model. You want a society that is silent, and if it is not silent, you try to silence it; that has a lot to do with a model in which some in Europe want to accompany you. We remind you again very briefly and to conclude, Mr Rajoy, what are the pillars of our European policy. We have asked you, today is the time to address it together - you should support it -: a European conference on debt restructuring and a more balanced distribution of sacrifices between debtors and creditors. It is time to address a public investment plan. You take up the proposals of the European Trade Union Confederation and activate the European Investment Bank, which is idle and underutilised today. Advance in the political construction of Europe, especially in the area of taxation. Let us address the issue of the mutualisation of public debt, also the fiscal harmonization that ends with this tax dumping and equips the European States and the European Union with fiscal musculature. We are pursuing a policy of wage and social income growth with the creation in the European Union of guaranteed minimum income for citizens, as proposed by the Economic and Social Committee. Revert the counter-reforms of the social state, beginning with the reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, in which we hope to have some ally soon if that arises. It is clear that these policies are possible, although not with you in the Government, Mr Rajoy, despite the professionalism you demonstrate. I have to tell you that in one thing I agree with you: you are good professionals; good professionals of precariousness and low wages, of increasing inequality and poverty; professionals of cutting social spending and privatization of public services; professionals of centralization of the state...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u19	Let me conclude, Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u20	...professionals of repression of democratic freedoms, professionals - the best - in the management of corruption. Mr Rajoy, this country needs good professionals, but not its specialty, no doubt. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u21	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u22	Thank you, Madam President, for this speaking time. Mr President, thank you for the information on the March European Council. Your detailed intervention - and unbalanced - has seemed curiously unEuropean in two ways - I will explain it: on the one hand, because you continue to blame Europe for certain consequences of policies that are purely national, for example energy policy - I will now comment on it - and, on the other hand, because you convey the message that everything is going very well in Europe and unfortunately that message of everything is going well, much remains to be done, and so on, it is largely illusory. I say this because the impression I have taken from what you have put forward is that in the European Council what is still being done is to try, on the one hand, to exercise the self-pump of the governments of how well the reforms are going, the magnificent economic prospects that we have, although the data often do not only confirm it, but rather to make us suspect that we are continuing with the original problems, that they are not largely solved precisely by national selfish interests, and, on the other hand, because they put every possible brake on genuine political, social and democratic integration of European policy, which is being missed more and more every day. It is a question of principles: a monetary union, a political, commercial and economic union like that which Europe has in a democracy is not sustainable, it will not work if there is no greater political integration, greater social integration and political and social objectives in both directions. Let's go over some of the things you said. For example, when he spoke about the economy - which he has naturally devoted a large part of his speech to - he has done much more about the success of his government policies than about the economic policies that are being done in the euro area and in general in the European Union; in fact, I have hardly found that there has been any talk of European economic policy, beyond a series of notes on very concrete things. We believe that we still lack an overall idea of what the European Council will do, which has a fundamental responsibility in this area, to prevent the recurrence of monetary crises in the European Union, of fiscal crises, therefore, of economic crises, of increasing imbalances and inequality within the eurozone, between countries and within the society of the respective countries, which in the case of Spain is particularly worrying because we continue to be the country that has had the greatest increase in poverty, inequality and unemployment in the whole of the eurozone, and of course among the important developed countries of the eurozone. When you talk about fiscal improvement between States, it is very good that we know more about tax transfers between States and that something more is known about it, but this contrasts strongly with the fact that in Spain in particular your Government remains an extraordinary fiscal opacity; we still do not know, for example, what is news these days: how many former senior government officials, high offices or whatever, people dedicated to public service, have benefited from the tax amnesty. It is quite shocking that, on the one hand, there is a presumption of progress in transparency and the exchange of tax information and, on the other hand, in our country in particular, what is clearly a setback. You have not said anything about Greece - you have remembered - which is worrying because Greece is not just another country with particular problems within the eurozone. The problem we have is that there are still countries, or governments, which seem to see Greece leaving the euro as a solution. As you know perfectly well, the departure of Greece from the euro would be a bad news for the euro. If it was already a mistake to accept that at the time Greece would enter the euro area with a rigged accounting, with completely fantastic expectations of its economic health, now its exit would be even worse, because it would leave us with a monetary system with the worst of the two worlds: with a fixed rate change that we cannot change as a country and with absolute political instability because the euro countries would look like a monetary club that does not really have sufficient economic governance. And they have told us nothing about what the European Council intends to do about it, which is, of course, a further lack of democratic control over the decisions of the European governments, which are essential, above the Commission, for decision-making within the Union. What other things? The same has happened to us with some notes of international policy. You have spoken about Tunisia, Libya, jihadism, which are undoubtedly issues of primary importance, strategic; indeed, more strategic and important than what is recognised in the speech and in the national political debate, but what will the European Union do or how does the Council see support for Tunisia? Because the case of Tunisia is very particular, it is the only one of the Arab countries in which the famous democratic spring has given way to a pluralistic democratic state, with the deficiencies that are desired but undoubtedly democratic and pluralistic. It seems that it would make a special effort to support Tunisia and that Tunisia remains a model of a state of reference vis-à-vis many Islamic, Islamist or Islamist States, in which there were nevertheless democratic Springs, in an example of very worrying political degeneration and which is a grave danger to Europe. Anyway, we've missed, as I say, a lot of things. Obviously, you will be able to take refuge in that there is no time to talk about everything and you have to select the messages, but, here it is, I am very interested in what messages you have selected. For example, he spoke of energy union with great enthusiasm. We share - we have always said this - the impetus for European energy interconnection because, indeed, it was a serious deficit that the European Union had as an integrated economy and, in fact, it was an example of how much was missing for economic integration; let me tell you, however, that it is very expensive, really excessive, to blame, as you have done, the European energy disconnection from the increase in the electricity bill in Spain. If Spain - in reality the Iberian peninsula, not Spain - was disconnected or with a huge disconnection from the rest of Europe, that meant that it was an autonomous energy market that was not only influenced by market decisions from other countries, then in no way can Europe be blamed for the fact that the electricity bill here has risen a lot because it turns out that we were not connected with the rest of Europe; rather, it has been the reverse, because what we had in Spain and we continue to have is an energy market that is deeply involved by governments, by political interests, and that has resulted in this market, which is full of abnormal elements, some scandalous, such as the tariff deficit and others, which are a constant factor in disrupting the cost of electricity, and not disconnection. The disconnection, of course, is a problem to overcome, but not the one that is at the root of the shortcomings of the Spanish electricity market. In this sense, there is one worrying thing. You say that we are finally going to have a European energy market. Okay, but what's it gonna be like? Because since the model is Spanish, of course, it's to start shaking. Are you going to be an interventionist? Are the governments going to regulate energy flows and, therefore, prices? Is there going to continue to be darkness about the formation of electricity and gas prices or is it actually going to be a competitive, competitive market and that consumers, both domestic and industrial, can choose the best supply? They have said nothing about this, and there are some elements in the Council's decisions which are concerned that when we talk about a single European energy market, we are talking about dealings between States and contracts with large suppliers, but not about a supply, production and distribution market that facilitates competitiveness for domestic consumers and, above all, for industrial consumers. More stuff. Since you blame European energy policy for the shortcomings of Spanish policies, it would not be wrong for you to see that there are three European objectives in relation to which your Government has taken steps in the opposite direction; that is, that what your Government has adopted in Spain runs counter to European directives or Council decisions. For example, what has to do with savings, energy efficiency and research, i.e. R & D+i applied to energy, because its government, through a succession of real decree-laws, has penalized savings by raising precisely the cost of electricity contracts; it has penalized self-consumption, which takes us away from efficiency and research in R & D, and has also developed a legislative framework hostile to the development of digital applications that are closely related to the development of potentiality, efficiency and energy saving. So, of course, they're doing the opposite. It is very good to have more connections with France - we support it and we think it is great - but it seems to us that it will serve very little or nothing if its energy policy remains what it is so far: erratic, interventionist and very far from innovation, competition, efficiency and savings. It's the same thing with renewables. Of course, renewables are expensive to us, but for a completely crazy premium policy at the time that has never been properly corrected and that has once again burdened the failure of the premium policy on small investors in particular. Another issue that has powerfully caught my attention is what you have said or, rather, what you have not said about the TTIP. To praise or advocate how interesting it is to integrate the European and US trade zones and not to go to something that is creating in public opinion a growing distrust of this project - how it can affect European standards in social, labour, environmental and transparency - all it does is increase distrust and rejection of the TTIP. Negotiation is being obscurantist; it is not known I do not say in its details anymore, not even in the broad lines beyond statements like those you are making. In this respect, the European Council is in favour of the Commission, which has made some timid and insufficient efforts to provide some transparency and information to the public. You don't make any. We must therefore think that what is being negotiated is indeed a treaty behind the public opinions of the countries concerned, of the Europeans in particular, and that we must fear that more attention is being paid, that the oligopolistic interests of the big corporations are being prioritized over those of demanding an extension of the economic model, at least social, in its fundamental elements, as we have fortunately in Europe. Therefore, what we are asking the Government of Spain, which you represent at these Council meetings, to make a genuine, sincere and effective effort to demand more transparency and more information for the public and for the participation of civil society and economic and social actors involved in a negotiation that pursues an interesting objective, but which can achieve a completely opposite effect to what is being pursued: a rejection of economic integration in Europe and a rise in isolationist, economic-type nationalist discourses, which your Government, of course, also represents very well. To conclude, we find a lack of European nerve and ambition of the most worrying in the Council's speech, because Europe's objectives - economic integration, fiscal and monetary integration - are never going to be achieved with sufficient quality and can even fail altogether if they are not accompanied by greater political integration, greater fiscal integration and greater democratic quality, which is what this is all about. We are witnessing a truly worrying phenomenon, and it is that the more interdependence there is of the European countries, the more is increasing however the isolationist and nationalist discourses of the main political forces, including in this case the executives. This is creating a tension that threatens the future of a European project that has always been accompanied by the goal of social integration, which is nothing more than creating European citizenship. It is not a question of pursuing objectives contrary to capitalism or such slogans that we certainly do not share, but of ending the European nationalist discourses of governments once and for all, that what they are doing is transferring to public opinion the poisonous, poisoned idea that local economic problems are due to European policies and local economic successes are due to government policies. As you know very well, the timid economic progress that is taking place in Spain with regard to the exit from the crisis owes more to the policies of the European Bank and to certain European decisions than to national policies. When you also boast of Spain's great successes in the fight against unemployment, you always forget to say that that is very good, creating new jobs and increasing, for example, social security affiliations, but it serves very little if we move away from the European economic model to get closer to the Chinese. What do I mean? To an economic model of low wages, precarious work and low added value. I suppose you know the facts very well: the increase in social security affiliations has not been accompanied by an impact on higher social security income, in fact income has risen very little, and that is an indicator that what is being created is very poor quality employment, precarious employment, jobs that come from the division of previous jobs into two or more. A work model is being fostered that is of course unsustainable. If you tell us that it is a first step towards a return to an economic model based on quality employment, it will seem very good to us, but we see self-satisfaction and that is a little the objective: that Spain looks more like Morocco or China than Denmark or Austria. And that is a mistake that our group does not share and we do not want to be accomplices to such a decision. And the TTIP, exactly the same. If the objective is to achieve a free trade area with greater global weight to achieve greater economic development and competition, welcome be it, but where is that commitment when it turns out that nothing can be told about what is being negotiated, when it is not possible to inform the public about what is being traded on standards of environmental, labour, social, health, public information and transparency? No, the opposite is true, for those who put it in the fork as an example of degeneration from democracy to a virtually nineteenth-century oligarchy where economic governance depends on the big corporations and not on the will of democratic societies. Anyway, I'm done. What conveys to us its explanation of what the European Council has been about is that we actually have less Europe, more governments of the countries, more conservatism and more economic nationalist discourse, and of course absolutely insufficient explanations about those things that really matter to people, such as their future work, their social future, through decisions such as the TTIP. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u23	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u24	Allow me, Mr President, to make a small parenthesis at first to address Mr Sánchez and welcome his announcement or, rather, his change of mind - that of his parliamentary group - as to whether the debates can be held before the summits are held. As Mr Hernando well knows, the last time I proposed it was answered by the two majority groups that the law says what it says and that it has to be a posteriori because, if not, that would be to mortgage the policies of the State, etc. I am pleased that you have another opinion and I hope that in the next parliamentary term, among all of us, we can make that change. Mr President, it is true that the Greek issue does not appear as the subject of the summit, in particular at this last summit, but most of the speakers have mentioned it because it is true that it is something that has been flying over those dates and around what was happening outside that summit. The truth is that, looking at what is happening, I have to say that, although it seems to me that we must first of all preserve European unity, the political good of European unity, so far the Greek bazaars are not making me understandable. On the one hand it seems clear that it will be paid, a payment has been made recently, but the reforms are still not closed and it seems that time is being saved. Here, even by some European political leader, the exit from the euro has been raised. I don't know if it would have an impact on the markets right now, probably the markets have already discounted that possibility. At another similar juncture it could have had more repercussions, but it would certainly not be responsible to admit it in political terms, and in that regard we must find a solution. But what concerns me above all about this matter, which is leading to both of us, the Greek Government and European officials, to certain statements, even I would say that sometimes exaggerated gestures are where this European project is placed. In an article, philosopher Daniel Innerarity recently recalled that on this tour by Mr Varoufakis from various European countries, at his meeting with the German minister Schäuble, Varoufakis alluded to the commitments that the Greek Government had made with its electorate and that this did not allow him to move on certain issues, and that Schäuble in turn talked about that he also has commitments with his own electorate and that in any case it does not make sense to enter into commitments at the expense of third parties. And what happens is that States have to move from a contractual responsibility towards their citizens to a sovereignty that commits them to the outside world in relation to certain common goods. If that, after the years we have been in the European project, we have not yet understood it, it is that something is wrong. I would like to quote two paragraphs from Mr Innerarity's article because I believe that, beyond agreements that we can have in the energy field, and so on, are the key to what the future of all of us as European citizens can be. He said that the normative core of representative democracy is that representatives have an obligation to be accountable to those who represent, and only to them, because it was supposed - in classical theory - that there were no effects worthy of consideration out there that could not be protected by reason of State or undervalued as neutral externality. But as interaction between States and their mutual duties increases, the area of those to whom political decisions themselves must be justified is broadened to the extent that they are significantly affected. Precisely the failure of the Union - Innerarity continues - to solve the current economic crisis is due to the gap between the political instruments and the nature of the problems, to which the States have been unable to internalize the consequences of interdependence, continue to impose externalities on each other and are unable to regulate the transnational forms of power that escape their control. In the end, responsibility remains only internal. In short, on the economy, politics overwhelms, and the political and fiscal integration of the European institutions overwhelms. That is why I think it is important to have that faith in the European model and the desire for integration, and it does not seem that the latest Greek gestures, for example to bring out the issue of debt for Nazi crimes, contribute to dialogue. That the amount that Greece owes is now being claimed is rather curious and does not seem to contribute to the dialogue either. And of course what is worrying to me is the visit to Russia and the gestures that have been shown. In the end, what was coming to be said is: because of internal problems, because of problems of response to my own citizens I threaten to break European unity, European unanimity in external positions. That is why I am talking about this double responsibility to which we cannot take away any political responsibility, nor the Greek responsibility. I would say, Mr President, that the battle before public opinion about whether Europe has done well in the economic sphere in recent years in general in Europe - then I will move to Spain - Europe is losing it to the United States, because we are now talking about a revulsive, a change in economic policy, but what have these six years been? They have been a failure compared to what American politics has been, because we have been late in the measures that have proved to work with that country. The easing of debt, now we are talking more about it; the serious action of the European Central Bank, there were those statements in July 2012 that stopped the markets a little bit but it is now when a massive purchase of bonds is taking place, which comes late and now intensely. We are being helped by short-term factors, which undoubtedly need to be taken advantage of, but which also, because they do not depend on the European authorities themselves, are fragile: read the fall in oil prices and read the almost parity, not yet exact, between the euro and the dollar. I think there is a bad conscience for not having made that investment and not having adopted those economic injection policies before and then we now take out the Juncker Plan. I insist again on what I said to you last time we were here debating, Mr President: that you do not know what it is, nor can Katainen explain it, nor when we have made any trip to Brussels we have been able to explain there by the responsibles themselves and now, at the European Summit, you are talking about that the fund must be implemented and already closed by 2015. In any case, that fund is ultimately detracting money that was in the European budget for other objectives for a kind of fund to which the EIB joins, but in reality what is done is a bank and putting money that is intended rather to cover the failures of those operations that can occur in that future Juncker Plan. When it comes to 350,000 we don't know what there can be, not even if there is going to be a single euro for the Juncker Plan. There is a bad conscience that we do not know how to fix and unfortunately we still need to see black on white what the European institutions as a whole want to do. The truth is that seeing how it has gone and the sufferings that, above all, southern Europe has had, the citizens of southern Europe, during these six years, if Europe had had a country government like the United States could have had all these cuts would have been unnecessary in many cases because there could have been a greater gap in time and I think that they should even have resigned. In the area of economic growth, the Spanish landscape is improving, that is unquestionably, but let us not forget some data, Mr President. If the Spanish wage in 2008 was 76.3% of the European average, we are currently at 72.6%, with the unemployment we have. But the quality of the work and income of the Spaniards have also fallen substantially since then, and this is due to specific policies that have been carried out by his Government, with European pressure as well as by his Government. And, Mr President, some of the duties we had have not been carried out, because the public deficit has not been substantially reduced. That's still there. The effort, another spokesman said earlier, has been done especially by the autonomous communities and the municipalities, under pressure under the legislation of their Government. But the General Administration of the State has done little and what it has done has been decompensated with the deficit of Social Security. We have therefore made very little progress there, despite all the efforts that have been made. There's something else I'm worried about. We said that the tremendous increase in unemployment was due to the structure of the Spanish economy and that a reform should be made in the economic and labour fields. I have not seen these structural reforms in order for the services sector to take other forms, for the industrial sector to grow, for the R & D & I sector to be consolidated in the Spanish sector. I have not seen those policies taken seriously during these years to face the future. And, the truth, also the discomfort that some things that we are seeing one day and another, and another, produce in citizenship. The last one was Mr. Rat's. I have to say this, Mr President, because we are not talking about anyone, we are talking about a person who could perhaps have been sitting in the bank you occupy now and we are talking about a person who had direct responsibility for the fight against money laundering, for the fight against fraud, directly. And now when you were asked whether or not you went to the tax amnesty of your government, Mr Montoro's, he did not deny it and it was very easy to say no. I don't know how this thing's gonna end, but it's demoralizing, it's honestly another pack, one more. In this case, Mr President, given the responsibility of this person and his closeness to his parliamentary group and his Government, if confirmed, he would require a demonstration, statements on his part. It is also noted that there is, Mr President, a bad conscience for these policies of cuts and drowning citizens. His Government had rectified the whole issue of the Law on Judicial Fees; whether it had not been urged by the opposition not to approve it, had put forward initiatives to change it and, in the end, had had to be its Government on its own initiative. Primary care for immigrants in an irregular situation, we said, endangers the whole of Spanish health care and the health system. You guys, you're wrong, you're wrong, you're not, and now you've changed it again. Even denied warnings of lowering cultural VAT in a newspaper normally well informed of what is happening in the government, although the next day, I imagine, the Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro, would say that he did not immediately cut off the subject of culture VAT and the news that appeared in the press. An untapped legislature, with the absolute majority at its disposal, to resolve some of the structural problems of the Spanish State, and I am referring to specific territorial tensions, because by its absolute majority it could have reached political agreements rather than confrontation, as has been chosen. Your position - no one was going to doubt your loyalty to Spain and as a Spanish patriot - could have helped to solve things; however, you have not used that absolute majority but to get in the way of your positions, not to try the dialogue and - I will tell you more - also to modify by decree-law the distribution of power of the autonomous communities that, based on the statutes of autonomy - organic laws - has been made. The power map of the autonomous communities and the state is different when this legislature began from when it will end, and you have changed it not by changing things as they have to do, by amending the statutes of autonomy or the Constitution itself, but by means of decree-laws. By the way, Mr President, tomorrow there is a decree on official enlargement. Yes, but for the State Administration: places for inspectors, for judicial secretaries, for national enablers - to control more the municipalities -. And at the same time, the autonomous communities that expand the places of doctors are being denied, which is increasingly problematic in the autonomous communities, or the places for teachers; absolute restriction on the autonomous communities; and, as you have the magic wand that opens and closes it, enlargement when it suits you for the State Administration. That's a small decentralized country we have! [[The Lord]] Mr President, as far as energy is concerned, it is true that progress has been made. The agreement reached between France, Portugal and Spain plus the EIB is certainly a very positive step, but we are at 2.7 and we need to reach 10% by 2020. You'll have to run a lot to get there. But do you know what disappointed me the most? There are very interesting measures and a willingness to move forward in this common market, but in the end it leaves it to the impetus of regional agreements that certain countries may take. It does not give the impression that there is a strategy marked by Europe, but that as France and Portugal are coming to an agreement, as the Scandinavian countries are coming to an agreement, those policies, let us say, regional are being implemented between governments and then, from there, we will be building. But there is no direct idea of what Europe wants. Regional progress is being driven, but without clearer guidelines. Mr President, I have to ask you for a compromise today, here - and I hope you will come out - on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement with the United States. In what way? In the sense of giving us information, Mr President, to this Parliament. The Members, the Members, the Senators and the Senators have no information about what is being negotiated, what is the Spanish position, what is the European position, what things are going to be called into question and what is needed - democratically necessary - for this Parliament to know that; transparency is necessary. They are demanding it from the European Parliament, but I too am demanding it for this Parliament. Because, in this sense, the conclusions of the European Summit speak of improving dialogue with the civilian population. How will dialogue with the civilian population be improved if there is not even transparency with parliaments? Mr President, to the extent that you can take that decision with regard to your Government and to parliamentarianism in the case of the Spanish State, compromise yourself that we will be given information immediately, in the coming weeks, on how the negotiations on this subject are going. With regard to Ukraine, Mr President, we remain stagnant, but there is one issue that we are not dealing with and I believe that Europe has to emphasize: the internal problem of Ukraine. I am not going to go into the Russian issue, where there is a common position against the Russian pretensions, but within Ukraine we find ourselves with an absolutely unstructured country. We are talking not about union, but about partnership, not about integration, but about partnership with all of us, with these six countries of Eastern Europe, about which the results of the summit speak. Ukraine is a country where 60% of its economy, 60% of its economy, is a submerged economy and a country in which the oligarchic clans dominate. It is no longer a matter of negotiations between political parties; even political parties are of oligarchic clans: there is the Donetsk clan, the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called It is not a country that is in a position for a firm and lasting partnership with Europe. Let us not forget that there is not only the side of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, but that Ukraine must be demanded and assisted in certain things, and this is a firm, democratic development and respect for human rights within it. By the way, some of the laws that are also announced, which can be understood a little bit in the war context in which they live, the prohibition of symbols, etc., are not much understood. Mr President, this is something that does not seem to have been discussed at the summit. We are always talking about Ukraine as if it were all one and a normalized country that we could compare with our own; we already know that Russia is neither and the limits that Russia has, but with Russia we are not going to an association and we do want to do so with Ukraine. This inner side must not be forgotten. With regard to Libya, frankly, it is a letter to the Magi that is stated in the conclusions of the summit. To urge the Libyan parties to quickly reach an agreement to form a Government of national unity, everyone knows that it is impossible, no matter how much Bernardino León has the will to do so. It is impossible, and also with other factors, for example, the entry of Daesh and radical Islamism, which has a part of Libya that is controlling. Therefore, Mr President, Europe is obliged to look at the Libyan crisis in another way, in a more direct way, with a very concrete plan, also knowing that everything is related - it is related and great - to the crisis in the Middle East, and that with these simple appeals to a government of national unity we are not going to get anywhere. One might even wonder whether Libya would have no future or whether agreement could be reached in a Libyan departure in two countries. As far as immigration is concerned - although I have already gone over time - the paragraph I read every time there is a summit, on the conclusions, is exactly the same and has also coincided, as some Members have already pointed out, with another tragedy, seems to be, on that southern border near Italy. Let us hope that this immigration policy, which has to be humanitarian at the same time, can come to fruition and progress once and for all in the near future. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. I would like to inform your ladies and gentlemen that you are with us at the rostrum of Margarita Popova, Vice-President of the Republic of Bulgaria, whom I warmly greet. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. We continue with the Joint Parliamentary Group which accumulates in this turn, as always, its turn of reply. Mr Larreina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, you have started your speech by referring to the air tragedy that took place on the dates following the summit. I want to join in solidarity with all the families of these affected people, but I also want to refer to the tragedy of the poor, to those 400 people who died yesterday in that blue cemetery, already filled with thousands of people and which goes from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean, passing through the coasts of the Canary Islands, the Iberian peninsula and the italic peninsula. There are 400 people, thousands of people who are questioning the citizens of Europe, who are questioning all governments and all European institutions, who are questioning our sense of humanity and the meaning and raison d'être of the European Union. It is important to raise this reflection and accept that inquiry. You have made an exciting and triumphant speech about the European Union in your speech. You often tell me that I only look at negative things and it is not true, but it is my obligation to also propose alternatives to what you say and to insist many times on those deficits. The problem with the European Union is that it is going the way that crabs do, that is, it is going backwards. He is betraying the spirit of the founding fathers and is returning to his origins. They are turning it - all the institutions and people who have that responsibility right now, including you - into simply a market. They are returning to their origins, to the coal and steel market, while the idea of Europe was something else, it was a Europe of citizens, it was a Europe of rights, it was a Europe of respect for all the identities, national and cultural that make up it. You guys are just focusing on the market. He spoke about the issues on the summit agenda, which were fundamentally economic and linked to markets. They have talked about the union of energy, growth and employment, the transatlantic partnership, with the treaty with the United States. All these issues are focused on the market, on the interests of large companies, not on the interests of citizens, not on the interests of Europe's real economy, not on the interests of the proximity economy, which provides a solid basis for Europe and social cohesion, which is very important. He has also commented on the response to jihadist terrorism, but the fundamental solution is not simply in repression. The police have to do their job, which is to safeguard the rights of citizens, mainly fundamental rights; not to suppress them, but to safeguard them. From the point of view of policy, we must also do our job, which is to convince, to move forward, to go to the root of the problems. Behind jihadist terrorism in Europe there is a problem in which the whole of the European Union must act, which is to reduce inequality, increase social cohesion, reduce poverty. That is a fundamental element and they are not acting there. They are working in the field of large companies. For example, with regard to energy union, none of the measures will correct the structural deficits of the Spanish State and the cost of energy remains very high and remains one of the factors limiting the competitiveness of the Spanish State, mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises and, in particular, of the companies in my country, Euskal Herria. You still don't act on the price of light. According to Facula, a 12.7% increase has been made over the past year and, moreover, the agreement of the European Court of Justice is not being complied with, which says that users must be informed beforehand of the increases in energy tariffs, and that is not being done either. This is an element that needs to be addressed. Energy interconnection is fine, but it's much better to see what energy model we're going to start: if we're going to support sustainable energies, and in this we're doing the opposite. They have talked about growth and employment, employment grows but temporality grows, precariousness grows, that is, we are not talking about jobs with rights, with sufficient rights. You also talk about the Transatlantic Partnership, and there you follow with obscurantism because you know very little; you do not know at all the proposals, for example, of the United States, which is a basic element in any negotiation. It is not what we want to safeguard, but what others demand, and there is no information on it. The Transatlantic Partnership is moving towards a European model based on the market of large companies and turning its back on the neighbouring economy, turning its back on the cohesion of the European Union and can turn its back on basic rights of citizens such as food security and others. That is why the answer on 18 April, at least in Euskal Herria, will be important and throughout the European Union it will also be important by rejecting this agreement in the current terms and perspective which, as I said before, encourages and supports large companies and turns its back on the real economy. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. You were also talking about taxation, which is an important issue, but here you are also acting from the back to the reality, to the reality of the people of the street, to the reality of small and medium-sized enterprises. You have to bring there a very clear proposal, which is to end the Sicav, and you have to do it at European Union level because it is the biggest tax haven, it is one of the biggest roots of insolidity, which is behind all the economic bubbles that are behind all the crises that have occurred in the past. You talk about the importance of large companies in the American market, which are the big builders, and that they do not create jobs here but there. They bring the money from there and put it in the Sicav, not impacting on wealth and solidarity with the rest of the citizenship of the Spanish State and with the rest of the citizenship of the European State. It is an element that is pending, that is on the agenda and that needs to be addressed. That is why we - and I am sure so, Mr President - are advocating another model of Europe, we are advocating another way of building Europe, based more on the principles proposed by the founding fathers and, above all, on the recognition of the different realities within the European Union and, from the point of view, on the recognition of our national identity and the right of Euskal Herria to decide its future and to be part of that Europe on equal terms with the rest of the peoples of Europe. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rajoy, do you think Don Jorge Fernández Díaz is a bad person? I am convinced that I agree with you that no, absolutely not; indeed, if Mr Fernández Díaz were a bad person I would be somewhat relieved because I would think that associating jihadism with independence is a product of the mind of a bad person, but I am convinced that Mr Fernández Díaz is not. Moreover, I assure you that he is not a bad person because I know him and I know how he thinks, which is even more worrying because it means that he responds to a political position, and that is what is causing us panic. How far are they willing to go to derail a hypothetical - I repeat: hypothetical - democratic will of Catalan citizens to decide their future? - I repeat again: hypothetical and democratic. Everything okay? Don't you think it is very perverse to associate Muslim religion and jihadism with independence as an independentist position of a Catalan Muslim or a Catalan close to another fellow Muslim? When is this spiral going to stop?, within three weeks?, when are we about to call an election that, whether you like it or not, will have a plebiscite character, not because Esquerra Republicana says it, but because perhaps the majority of Catalan citizens say it? Because if they now get here, how far will they get when we are in the final process, when we are at the door - I repeat: perhaps - to declare independence? A democratic society should put a stop to these spirals. Otherwise, we will suffer and democracy will suffer. What's your goal, get us all in jail, get Catalonia in jail? The good people - I repeat: I believe that he and I are; I can't speak for you because I don't know you personally, maybe, I think, that you are yourself - we should avoid this. Moreover, it is absurd not to talk about the real causes of jihadism. The real causes of jihadism are found in the failed states, in the criminal states very friendly to European democracies, at least some - perhaps not Scandinavian - and in the dismantling of the welfare state. Since so much has been said about energy, in this last meeting, have you already reminded your partners of the 30 billion - illegitimate debt - that they have contracted with the energy oligopolies - five companies - in order and effect to accumulate capital beyond what had been foreseen as a symptom and desire for modernity, to make complicit citizens in all that had to do with renewables?, how many families that believed in an energetically sustainable future have been ruined? To finish...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u29	Mr. Tardà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u30	Finally, I ask you, Mr Rajoy: a few Members of all parliamentary groups within a couple of hours will go to Barajas, where there is a citizen, a lady, a person, in this case a woman from an African republic who is very important to be given asylum. It's very important because apparently because of your sexual tendencies, if you were repatriated, you might lose your life. I am convinced that both the comrades of the People's Party and the comrades of the various parliamentary groups will do some action, together with the ministry, in order to ensure that something does not happen, and that we will then get out of our hairs. It's a few hours and it's in your hand, in a few hours, to do something. I'm asking you - I'm nobody to ask - because it's an urgent matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy, you will understand that in three minutes you do not have much time to expand on the issues you dealt with this morning in relation to the Council of Europe; but on the subject of what you have said here, I have some thoughts that I would like to convey to you and some questions to ask you. You outlined the progress made in relation to the crisis and, above all, the growth and job creation that is being promoted in the European Union, but specifically in the Spanish State. He gave concrete data on both growth and job creation and spoke of a figure of approximately 500,000 jobs that were created in the last year 2014 and as of 2015. And that figure, which we already know, allows us to reflect - to which we would like, if possible, for you to answer us - on how it is understood that with these 500,000 new jobs, which are high, social security affiliations, the increase in social security can only be 0.96% when by previous data, by a similar employment figure, would mean more than 8%. We understand that this is a consequence of the precarious work with which this recruitment is being made and, above all, the impoverishment of the workers. Therefore, it does not seem strange to us what you say about the territory of the Spanish State being a desirable territory for foreign capital to the extent that it can allow for business; it is not surprising with this precarious employment that exists in the Spanish State. On this point, I link up with the free trade agreement between Europe and the United States because, as you know, the debate in the Employment Committee of the European Parliament has shown, because of the limited data available, that this agreement will have a very large impact on employment in Europe and, therefore, will also have an impact on the Spanish State. If I have no bad memory, this is the first time that you have dealt with this subject when you talk about the European Council in the Congress of Deputies, and I suppose that will be the reason for that very small information provision that is currently being made on this subject. Mr President, in this matter we are concerned that negotiations will continue behind the back of the citizens; we do not say this, the European Ombudsman is calling for more transparency, especially because this agreement has the great back of the big multinationals and that, of course, scares us. We are very afraid, Mr President, because, because of the news that is going on, now that some information is being transferred in the debates in the European Parliament, it is clear that employment alone is not going to be affected, but also the rights of people and many of our productive sectors. We therefore call on you from the BNG, for an in-depth debate on this issue in plenary, to come forward to explain what is happening with this treaty and the position of the Spanish Government on it. I would like to remind you that the European media say that the lack of information is a consequence of the imposition that the governments of the European Union are putting on. The Spanish Government is appointed - Mr Rajoy, his name appears as one of those who does not allow it - as one of those who prevents him from being properly informed on this matter. Finally, because I have run out of time, I want to tell you that we are also concerned about the famous Juncker Plan in so far as, as far as it goes, it is not known whether it will be carried out because it is not known how it will be financed. At this point it is not very clear, although theoretically there is a funding line because it seems that it is not possible. We would ask you if you can tell us anything about this in your answer. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr. Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, after listening to it, we were surprised that you were pleased with the conclusions of this European Council that we are dealing with because - despite the usual self-congratulation with the outcome of the European Councils - it is striking that the Spanish Government has not received a severe reprimand that we did not find at the European Council. I give you two examples: growth and employment policies, which are an amendment to all the policies that your Government has been developing over the course of these four years, because it is supposed to be in favour of investment and growth. If we analyze your General State Budgets, we analyze what your investment policies have been - rather than disinvestment - and we analyze the facts of reality, not macroeconomics, you will see how here what has increased is poverty and inequality. I do not understand how we can share this result that we share with the European Council, this line of intervention, because it is contrary to what you practice. In relation to the union of energy, the need for the union of energy with a future climate policy is stressed. In complete agreement, the small problem is that this is exactly the opposite of the policies that you have developed in the field of energy: Spain is the third state of the European Union with the most expensive energy, the Spanish energy companies are the ones that receive the most benefits from the whole European Union, the least competitive sector of the European Union is Spanish, and there is the scandalous increase in the energy poverty that this country suffers. This has nothing to do with what is being proposed here because we are well aware of your obsession with renewable energies. The Canary Islands have suffered the affront of oil explorations - it will not be that we have not asked you in all possible ways to dialogue on this issue - and an aggression with a result, as you know, which is not exactly the best. In addition, there is an attack on the development of renewable energies; we have 6% of the renewable energy penetration - which is a low scandal - in a place like the Canary Islands that should be the paradise of renewable energies; we also have a permanent institutional conflict that blocks the development of this type of energy. Of course, we do not reach the European Union's 2020 target in this area in any way; in 2030 we do not know, but in 2020 we do not meet those targets. There is also a monumental scandal because two platforms associated with renewable energy have had to report to Anti-corruption that measures against renewable energy were not supported by reports, as has been said, that they are paid but not used. We are surprised that you can be satisfied with the outcome of this summit, but if it means that it serves to review your policies, then perhaps it has been worth something. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u36	I promise you today I won't do anything, Mr. Rajoy. [[Laughter]] In the conclusions you have presented to us, especially with regard to the union of energy, you say that you are in the right direction, but you are in the opposite direction. The conclusions of energy efficiency are discussed in order to contribute to the moderation of demand, and here the receipts of light discourage savings and efficiency because the part devoted to consumption is very small. We are talking about the decarbonisation of the economy, and you continue to bet on the dirty energies: there is your commitment in fracking - I mention it because the Minister of Industry is here - or in the oil prescriptions. We are talking about research and innovation, and you in the State General Budgets, except this year that you have gone back slightly, have systematically reduced R & D & I spending and have led to the flight of brains or scientists who have had to emigrate. It is also mentioned in the conclusions of incentivizing indigenous resources, safe and sustainable low-carbon technologies, and in absolute terms this, which is the country of the sun, has only 4,700 megawatts installed. Germany - which sure has much less sun than Spain - has 36,000, nine times more; and Italy, 17,000, four times more. We're undermining a very important potential. In relative terms, the Spanish state has only 100 watts installed per inhabitant and we are the 11th number of the European Union. We are talking about designing a more efficient and flexible market and here we are fined by Competition to the electric oligopoly with 61 million for drowning the market, for agreeing prices, for hindering the change of company. The Audience has removed those 61 million because it cancels that inspection, not because they were not really negotiating prices and making it difficult for the company to change. This is your effective and flexible market. We are also talking about helping to integrate renewable energies, but they are on the opposite line because they want to approve the back-up toll that makes the development of self-consumption impossible. As far as growth and employment are concerned, as you have always taken out some figures - the ones that suit you - but you have a problem, as Mr Floriano rightly said in that lengthy talk of living room that he shared with you, with Mrs Cospedal and Mr Arenas and Mr Pons: you need to skin every figure you give. We are going to try to make the figures worse: according to the CIS, the concerns of the Spaniards point to unemployment and corruption, things that have a lot to do with you; to inequality, which has increased; to social justice, where we occupy the 21st place in the European Union. More skin: evictions, which increased by 7.4 in 2014; the coverage of the unemployed has fallen to 55%, by 7% less. Finally - and I am finishing - despite its triumphant employment figures, Social Security achieved a historical deficit in 2014: 15 billion, due, of course, to precarious employment and the devaluation of wages; moreover, they have removed 24 billion from the pension pool. That's the real skin of the citizens. Their motto for this campaign is to work, to do and to grow; to work, to do and to grow inequality, social injustice or precariousness. I'm done. With the free trade treaty they should strive...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u37	You must finish, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u38	I've got 30 seconds left. Mr. Sanchez's been nine minutes, and I don't care.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u39	It has to be measured on a percentage basis.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u40	Okay. I've got 15 seconds left. It states in its conclusions that efforts should be made to communicate the benefits of the agreement and improve dialogue with civil society. This is an authentic sarcasm, because here we only see secrecy - it hides information - and what is needed is light and tachographs. Therefore, I join Mr. Esteban's request and say to him: Mr. Rajoy, when will you tell us the benefits of that agreement, when will you tell us? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr. Alvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, on 25 March it was the date on which, due to the tragic end of the German plane accident, there was an extension of this appearance and I take the opportunity of regretting, of course, this situation and of solidarity with the victims and their families of this unfortunate event. It seems clear, Mr President, that, according to your words, the summit already far away on 19 March focused on foreign policy issues in Ukraine, on anti-terrorist security issues and on the still persistent problems of the possible default of Greece treated in a mini-summit reductionist and night to which you were not invited, and to me, frankly, I would like to know the causes, because the kingdom has lent a part of the 240 billion euros of the ransom, which comes out something expensive for the forty-seven seconds that, in your view, you have devoted to this problem of Greece. It tells us that a little more time was spent on the problems of internal energy growth, decreasing our energy profile and our own energy dependence, which amounts to almost 98%. The new law on hydrocarbons, in parliamentary procedure - which I amended unsuccessfully because the Forum cannot be accepted in general terms - deals with nuclear and updates this important issue, such as support for field research on conventional and non-conventional hydrocarbons. I would be interested to know your real opinion about research on new non-conventional sources of energy, in this case gas productions, so-called fracking, etc., for the purposes of our own country and, of course, those communities that have this viability. Another of the issues surrounding the meetings was to give impetus to the investment plan, which is absolutely necessary for job creation and growth. In the past debate of the state of the Nation I presented to you unsuccessfully an essential initiative for Asturias and the neighbouring communities of north-west and north of Spain and then a non-law proposal referring to the Palencia-Gijón corridor and its incursion into the Atlantic corridor, corridor which, as you know, was within the nine trans-European corridors and in financing programmes for these infrastructures, in which there have been some important financial developments - you have already quoted them -: through the ICO they have been given 1.5 billion euros; 8,000 has given France and 8,000 has given Germany. What I want to say, Mr Rajoy, is that now, as a result of the electoral winds, the Ministry of Development has taken out the Gijón-Avilés section of public information a few days ago, within the line of AVE Madrid-Asturias, but it is confusing it all, the AVE and the improvement of the railways of closeness in itineraries and material. I beg you not to deceive us any more, I ask you please; I know that you are always generous in many matters and I ask you to be generous in this one. It is a fact that since Leon there will not be high speed for Asturias, and the reason is that without this requirement, that his ministry does not meet, there will be no European funding for something that is not high speed. Is it not true that they have already had to count in Brussels that the Iberian width of the variant is provisional because if they do not have to return funds already received? If I'm confused, I beg you to get me out of that mistake and I'll thank you. Don't make me believe that everything is part of the Rajoy model.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u42	Mr. Alvarez, you have to finish. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: I am finished, Mr President. A model that, apart from rhetoric, consists of three years of non-compliance and two months of activation of promises ad graeca calendars. We are facing a vital funding line for Asturias, for neighbouring communities, and I ask you, with European help, that we have that opportunity, to finish the works and connect Asturias with the Atlantic Corridor and the rest of the European Corridors. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, there are three issues covered in the short document this time of conclusions: the energy union, the economic situation and a few external issues. In the Navarro People's Union we welcome the Council's willingness to establish an energy union. In our opinion, in order for this complicated puzzle, or rather this sudoku, to have some coherence and usefulness for Spain, we should act under various premises, at least internally. One, as your group's energy spokesperson often repeats, should not fall into the temptation to ideologize generation technologies. There are no right-wing or left-wing technologies; this is a diabolical debate. Let us avoid debates that can make us lose a historic opportunity to achieve the two priority objectives to which Spain must aspire: one, to stop being an energy island and the other, to become an alternative and reliable energy provider for the whole of Europe. We also need to take advantage of our strengths to be leaders where we can bring our experience and the entire curve of investment, industry and effort learning, such as that which has been done in the renewable energy sector, something which in Navarre, Mr President, you know very well, we have done, and we have worked hard. On the second point, the follow-up to the economic situation in Europe, little remains to be said unless, in fact, we have to continue to carry out national reforms and activate stability and convergence programmes, and that right now, it is true, we should take advantage of the European Fund for Strategic Investments and to launch as many projects as possible and also benefit Spain. I would like to put forward an idea, recommendation or suggestion on the partnership agreement with the United States. We hope that this will be ambitious, global, mutually beneficial and fair, and when I say just I mean balanced. And one more point: if we believe that we can compete on equal terms with the Americans, we will have to put on the table the best of ourselves, that is obvious, but I am sure that will entail further efforts. We should therefore explain this very well to the citizens, so that we know how or how it will improve European society and the lives of all its citizens with such an ambitious partnership. The third point mentions a population of issues: European Neighbourhood Policy, Eastern Partnership Summit, the conflict in Ukraine or the crisis in Libya. In the abstract - because I obviously cannot go into any detail - I would say to you: let us seek a single European voice that defends our interests and values in all these issues; let us be cautious so that we can be right in the allies or with the allies and in the strategies, and let us accompany all the efforts of those who want to create conditions to improve the lives of the citizens. I would like to make three suggestions on immigration, which is a sensitive and painful issue: we need to increase the Union's support for countries of origin and transit; we need to keep the surveillance, control and sanction of the mafias who traffic with people, and we also need to coordinate the humanitarian security response, which I believe will be the objective of the European immigration programme to be seen in the near future. The conclusions on terrorism and Greece say nothing, and I would like to say something. On terrorism, let us not lower our guard and continue to act together, which is how we will act with greater strength. On Greece, it is true that they are in a problem and we have a problem. Let us seek to be just, and when I say fair I mean to be pondered, but without components and without shortcuts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Finally, as the last speaker in the Joint Group, Mrs Barkos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u46	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, this debate on the Council of 19 and 20 March is late because of the air accident in the Alps, and I would like to take the opportunity to convey the condolences of my training to the families of the victims. But it is also today, and so long after, that we continue to witness a humanitarian tragedy, and it is directly related, in our view, to the Council's own tasks, such as migration; migration, which - I would like to remind you, some of the spokespersons have also pointed out, did so by the President of the Government himself - has pushed four hundred people to the sea, in this case to the Mediterranean, which are still being sought today, although certainly the prospects are little or nothing flattering and much less as the hours pass. In any case, Mr Rajoy, the Mediterranean has been a special chapter in this Council. I fear - here I would like to underline the criticism - that, as far as the security agenda is concerned, it is true that the threat - a certain threat, no one questions it - of jihadism remains, in our view, unjustly ahead of the certain threat of poverty. We understand, as I say, that the emergencies, which are in certain circumstances, cannot at all be above those matters of vital importance, as, I repeat, dramatically this situation which is currently being experienced in the Mediterranean points to us. The European Union undoubtedly has a challenge and a responsibility to strengthen security in the area, but they cannot divorce this commitment from the same challenge and responsibility that the European Union has in combating poverty in the same area. This was the first matter we wanted to discuss, but I will deal with two more. Juncker plan. The participation through the Institute of Official Credit of Spain with a contribution of 1.5 billion euros, finances for the European Fund for Strategic Investments, is sanctioned in the Council, but it remains to be seen what about the plan, I would say that ambitious - at the time we greeted it - that Minister De Guindos presented in his day, last December, an investment of 53 billion euros, which was what the Juncker plan requested for Spain for the period 2015-2017. As I say, since the last December in which it was raised, we understand that some ground-breaking and capable news should be getting to know us. I'm done. Energy union. In Geroa Bai's view, we are losing the real possibility of being a renewable energy reference in the future, a position, by the way, which is being taken over by other countries outside the Union and also with a huge conviction on this point. I'm talking about the United States, I think it's a little suspicious of being making investments and strategies that don't match what the sector's drift can propose to us. Therefore, we are losing that real possibility and you are choosing the easy way to get to the trans port of what other interests mark in Europe when we talk about energy union. We are losing certain positions in terms of energy sovereignty. It seems to us that this is a point that you should take back. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Barkos. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Rafael Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u48	Mr President of the Government, today we are celebrating this appearance, postponed after the terrible accident and catastrophe of the A320 of the Germanwings company that occurred in the Alps on Tuesday 24 March, which plunged all the citizens of the countries concerned, and especially the citizens of Germany and Spain, into deep pain. I would therefore like to begin by conveying my condolences and those of my group to all the relatives of the victims and to all their friends. We are deeply moved by a tragedy of these dimensions, and we trust that the investigation will shed all the necessary light to provide the victims with the greatest possible comfort and reparation. A week earlier, there had also been an atrocious act of terrorism in Tunisia with the death and murder of two compatriots. We also condemn this cowardly terrorist attack and reiterate our solidarity with the Tunisian authorities in their fight against terrorism and with the Tunisian people. Spain and the People's Party have been and will always be on the side of the victims of any terrorist act. Despite its very different nature, I wanted to refer to both cases at the beginning of my intervention, first of all, for respect and in memory of the victims, but also because both are examples of close cooperation, both from the point of view of research and of the joint work of the teams on the ground and solidarity, with our European partners and our southern neighbours, more united, more solidarity and stronger in the fight against unreasonableness. I would also like to thank the efforts of the people and the French Government to help all the victims of this terrible tragedy, as I said earlier, of the sinister plane. The President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, has focused his speech today on a crucial issue for our interests: promoting and achieving energy union in Europe. As you know, this government gave a very important boost to the European Council's energy and climate change package in October 2014, dedicating the need to boost interconnections to a minimum level of 10% and linking this target to renewable energy targets. But, ladies and gentlemen, if today we get our European partners to take on a priority that is of vital importance to us, such as this of the interconnections of all the Member States, it is thanks to the fact that we have carried out the necessary reforms, demonstrating that we have a serious, reliable government and that it defends the general interest rather than the particular one. I understand that Mr Sánchez has spent more time this morning defending Greece or Greece's interests than the Spanish or our electricity sector, but we could not present ourselves to our Community partners with an electricity system that we inherited from the socialist government, a system on the verge of economic and financial collapse, with 106,000 megawatts of production capacity, 68,000 of permanent capacity and only 43,000 of real consumption, which had to pay the whole sector. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a system in which the tariff deficit, i.e. costs and revenues, was growing, which started to fire from 2008 above the EUR 5 billion per year, which accumulated more than EUR 26 billion by the end of 2012 and which, if no action had been taken, would have meant more than EUR 10 billion more last year and an electric rise of 40% automatically to deal with this problem. I understand Mr. Sánchez doesn't want to talk about this this morning. All this despite the fact that the receipt of the light paid for by all had grown by 70% between 2004 and 2011, becoming one of the most expensive in Europe, a real machine to impoverish Spanish, small and medium-sized enterprises and all industries. All this for disastrous energy planning, which turned the opportunity offered by the technological development of new technologies, especially renewable technologies, into a financial product that came to guarantee profitability from 20% to twenty-five years. What a fool, ladies and gentlemen! These premiums were paid by consumers through so-called regulated costs, which had increased by more than 200 % since 2005, particularly highlighting the growth of renewable premiums by more than 760 % over that period. At the expense of the green, ladies and gentlemen, some of them were wearing purple. All this also for China's technological development. As it is complicated, let me quote an expert's explanation: The photovoltaic bubble occurred in the spring of 2008 in front of the government's own noses. The premiums are actually a transfer of income from SMEs and the innovative manufacturing and exporting industry to landowners or financiers who deployed solar gardens throughout Europe. Solving the tariff deficit is not only crucial to providing certainty to the sector; it is also a necessary condition for genuine liberalisation of the sector. I am sure that Mr Sánchez is familiar with these words because they belong to his teacher, Mr Sebastián, a gentleman who, by the way, has not yet explained to us why if he knew this analysis in 2010, he authorized 2,500 extraordinary megawatts with premiums for gas production in which 15% of production was remunerated with absolutely exorbitant prices and premiums that impoverished all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] A game, ladies and gentlemen, of zero sum. What producers earned, consumers paid. In this case, not only the current ones; our descendants as well as future generations, because there was the tariff deficit that was not currently paid. The incredible thing is not that this system was set up to enrich a few at the expense of all, not even that its ideologist and minister of industry has acknowledged that it was wrong. The incredible thing is that when the head of the opposition, Mr Sánchez, talks about this matter, he says that when the Socialist Party re-rules Spain, the remuneration of photovoltaics will be restored. I hope this can never happen. This electrical system that you have not said a word about, nor was it financially sustainable, nor was it sustainable for citizens, nor did it bring any financial stability. That is why we had to make the reforms before we presented ourselves in Europe. We made them here in Parliament, with light and stenographers, not as you did, in the offices and behind the backs of all the citizens; that is so, meeting with investors not only in Europe, but also in the whole world, who were profiting from their investments at the expense of all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And so, ladies and gentlemen, we adapt the remuneration of regulated activities of the electricity system, ensuring a reasonable return for the sector of 7.5%. We eliminate the problem of the tariff deficit and establish a regulatory framework that implies and allows this to never be repeated again. We have also managed to lower the rates paid by consumers by 2.5% in 2013, by 4.5% in 2014 and by 2015 they will also continue to fall. In addition, in 2014, something happened that when you were ruling it was absolutely unusual to think, that the electrics returned 400 million euros to Spanish consumers for what they had overcharged, thanks to the system that you set up to favor those companies. With these reforms and results, we have begun to take steps and to move forward in Europe in the energy union. We broke the loop of the energy island with the inauguration, on 20 February, of the electricity interconnection between Spain and France, Santa Llogaia-Baixàs. We also led the Madrid Energy Interconnection Summit on 4 March with the Prime Minister of Portugal, the Presidents of France, the European Commission and the EIB. The European Commission presented on 25 February a programme on energy union which includes a general strategy for Spain. Moreover, as has also been recognised in this House today, with the adoption of the Hydrocarbons Act we have taken necessary steps to take advantage of our strategic situation in the face of the Maghreb gas and to turn Spain into a gas hub that strengthens the eastern axis of gas and ensures the supply of the whole of Europe, giving transparency and efficiency to the sector. In this support and alignment of Spanish interests with those of the rest of the European countries in the field of energy, it is necessary to highlight the role played by European Commissioner Miguel Arias Cañete. From the very beginning, the President of Spain fought in Brussels to assign a portfolio of strategic relevance and interest to the appointed Spanish Commissioner. That was despite the unprecedented act of disloyalty exercised by the Socialist Party, voting not only against the candidacy of the Spanish Commissioner but against the general interest of all Spaniards in an irresponsible and shameful act that they should ever regret. Ladies and gentlemen, this European Council has given clear support to our Government's leadership in the work it is doing to achieve a single market in the energy sector; a support that is clearly reflected in its conclusions, which calls for speeding up infrastructure projects, both for electricity and gas, and especially for peripheral regions, namely Spain. Full integration of the energy market will result in direct savings for consumers in our country and across Europe. There is no doubt that, thanks to this Government, it is going down and the price of electricity will fall even further. Because we have aimed to ensure a safe, affordable and sustainable energy, as a key element in strengthening the competitiveness of Spanish industry and thereby growth and job creation and consumer protection. Ladies and gentlemen, it was others who gave money - 3.5 billion - to the electricians with the extra cost of the transition, those who negotiated as they negotiated the resolution of the Castor problem or those who, according to the Court of Auditors' report, allowed some coal entrepreneurs to receive numerous subsidies irregularly which they did not have to repay thanks to the favors of the previous government. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is a solidarity government that, in view of the situations of energy poverty - those which you have compulsively created - has given access to the electric social bond to 2.5 million Spanish families, who have had help to pay their bills for the light. While some are also annoyed, this is a Government that has fought and made decisions against climate change. It has done so by incorporating ideas and legislation in a cross-cutting way into all the rules that we have adopted and that have to do with this matter. We have done so in the Environmental Responsibility Act, in the Environmental Assessment Act, in the Air Plan, in the efficiency of buildings or in the Coast Act, betting, as I said before, on savings, energy efficiency and improving and enabling economic activity and job creation. This is how we fight climate change. When you were ruling, Socialist Party gentlemen, what was being done was to pay €770 million to buy carbon rights; now, ladies and gentlemen, only €42 million is being paid, fortunately, and this is thanks to the policy of the People's Party government. In other words, let me, ladies and gentlemen, also speak of growth and job creation. We have seen that this summit has also promoted and given impetus to the Juncker Plan, which is very important for the creation of infrastructure, in this case road infrastructure, also in our country, those which some seem to want to paralyse, but which are essential to vertebrate the country and to give the same opportunities to all citizens, regardless of where they live. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has spent three years in the tail van of the European Union, being an unreliable partner that did not meet its commitments and posing a major threat to Europe's future to lead growth and job creation in the euro area, to re-establishing itself as a reference partner with other countries and ultimately regaining the prestige that we should never have lost. We have squared the accounts by reducing the public deficit and paying, in turn, the puffs and bills that others left in the Administration. We have chained up six consecutive months growing at increasing rates. This growth has been made possible thanks to the recovery of the competitiveness of our companies and has allowed it to turn abroad and record exports in goods and services, more than 240 billion euros in 2014. External sales already account for more than 33 % of GDP. But, Mr. Sánchez, what country do you live in? It's 35% more than it was exported abroad when you were ruling in 2011. The strength of the external sector is also being accompanied by the domestic demand that is taking over as an engine of growth. Consumption is growing at 3%, investment in equipment at 7% and, for the first time in a decade, the construction sector recovers as the industrial sector does, in an unprecedented process of industrial relocation in our country. And all this with negative inflation, that is, benefiting also those who have less resources. In 2014 we have been visited by more than 65 million tourists, many of whom want to return, and we have become the second country in per capita income by number of tourists, this country of which some speak only in negative and of which every day they throw plagues, but which apparently there are many, also outside, who like and are happy with what they find here. In 2014 there has been a substantial change for the first time since 2007, ladies and gentlemen. The number of unemployed fell by 253,000, social security membership increased by 417,000 and one in two people who are leaving unemployment in the euro area are currently doing so in Spain. One in two young people who found a job, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 in Europe did so in our country, and this is a big change. When the People's Party came to the government, unemployment increased by 9.2% annually and is now reduced by 7.2, and they're not figures, they're people. Full-time indefinite recruitment has grown by 29% in year-on-year terms; in our country three out of four workers have an indefinite contract, and they are not figures, they are people. Today we have 536,000 members of Social Security more than a year ago, and they're not figures, they're people. [[Applauds]] We are moving in the right direction to meet our employment objectives, which are to create at least one million jobs between 2014 and 2015 and reach the 20 million active workers in the coming years. They're not figures, they're people, ladies and gentlemen. This is the commitment made by the President of the Government and the People's Party in the previous debate on the state of the nation and we will not rest until we comply. That is why it is so important at this time to appeal to risk, as some with their offers, unknown or known in the past, put at risk this situation that we know today. And this is not by chance, either, Mr Sánchez, for oil. It is because the duties have been done, because the process and the project have been done to be able to recover Spain, because, in the end, very broad, structural reforms have been made of a government that, in fulfilling an electoral programme, has allowed to find for the Spanish citizens an opportunity of hope, an opportunity of illusion and an opportunity of personal development also to find a job, because, ladies and gentlemen, the best social policy that exists is one that serves to create employment, and this is the soul of this government. Others represent unemployment. They're going to allow me to make a reference to a few words spoken here by some spokesman. Mr Coscubiela, I am very sorry that every time you come up to this rostrum you have not to use arguments but insults to defend your ideas. I don't know if you intend to become an emulum of the Balbontin now contemporary, but it seems to me that that is insufficient. I ask you, please, to apologize for the formulation and the very serious accusation you made this morning against all the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group. To insult is not democracy, Mr Coscubala, to reason, yes; to argue, too, but what you usually do when you come up to this rostrum has nothing to do with the last. It has to do unfortunately with a feeling of democracy which is not suitable for the times that run, nor of course for the future, but so it goes. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government's reform programme has been very intense. Here it is no longer worth what some say: we can but did not make the PSOE; nor that of those who appeal to: we ask for the rescue, even to the Portuguese; much less that of: we can do, to become referents of other countries that we are seeing, in which neither the most basic human rights are respected. We are and this Government is ours, that of fulfilling an electoral program that now leads us to present a program that has to do with three words: working, doing, growing, something so different from what others have done in the past or what some bet for the future. Faced with that, Mr Sánchez's coloring policies, this of the blues or the reds, or the populism of some can only lead to the worst, to change to return to the past, because the change to go out and advance towards the future is what this government has been doing. They will allow me to refer also to the successes that have taken place at this summit and to the subsequent conference that took place in Tunisia on the European Neighbourhood Policy. I think it is a success to bring together 36 foreign ministers from such a conflictive area as the Mediterranean, where we have so many things to overcome, challenges that refer to terrorism or the problems of emigration and the exploitation of people by the mafias who trade with people, with their illusions and with their hopes, and that they achieve such tragic results as the death of 400 people yesterday and that they reflect that, unfortunately, this is a matter on which we have to work. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this Council has shown the two sides of the same coin, one that the Spanish interests are the interests of Europe and another that our Government's priorities are today - because they were not yesterday - the priorities of the European institutions. The European Union has been fully committed to the creation of a single energy market that will put an end to the isolation of the Iberian peninsula in this area and this is very positive for us. It has also endorsed our programme of reforms and our fiscal stability policies, which have enabled us to lead growth and job creation, as I have said before, and is supporting our leadership in our cooperation with southern partners through the European Neighbourhood Policy, a central axis of our foreign policy. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Spain and Europe are moving forward aligned, aligned towards a future of greater prosperity, in which we want all Spaniards to be integrated, especially the more than 4.5 million people who are still unemployed and who, thanks to the People's Party Government, today are waiting for personal development. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. I give the floor to the President of the Government to respond to what the groups have said.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many things have been said here this morning. Some of the speeches have referred to the issues that have been dealt with at the last European Council, which is what you mentioned here today; others relate to issues related to the European Council, although they have not been dealt with in it, and then there are some speakers who have introduced in their speeches issues that have nothing to do with or have no relation to the European Council. In any case, I will try to give a complete answer, without extending too much over time, to the various interventions that have occurred, in the understanding that, since there are many interveners - on the other hand, totally logical - who have referred to the same matters, the answer to some will, as it is natural, serve as an answer for the rest of the speakers. Mr Sánchez has started his speech on a point of procedure: this should have been dealt with earlier. It was actually dealt with earlier, because there was an appearance, as has always been the case throughout history, by the Secretary of State for the European Union to explain in the relevant Commission the issues to be discussed and to hear what the various speakers had to say. In any case, the only thing we have done is what is being done throughout the history of Spain, who governs, when there were debates of these characteristics, which have been many, which does not mean that a criterion cannot be changed, but does not mean that it cannot be maintained, because things have not worked badly. In any case, as some other speaker has also raised, I am prepared to speak on this matter. A few comments have been made on the weight and influence in Europe to which I have to respond, more than anything so that they are not left simply in the "Diary of Sessions" and someone can interpret that I have given my acquiescence to these statements. We've lost a vice president. In fact, neither France, nor Germany, nor the United Kingdom, nor Spain, nor the major countries of the European Union have a vice-presidency, what they have are portfolios with content. Spain has the Energy portfolio, which previously had Germany, and also the Climate Change portfolio, which previously had Denmark, and then there are some vice presidents, but the portfolios have France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Spain. Reference has also been made to the Governor of the Banco de España. I am not going to refer to the former governor of the Banco de España, who was talking about the time when labor reform and issues that had nothing to do with his own competences, which came from the Secretariat of State for Finance, but I am going to say that he did something that if he had not done so he would have avoided many problems in the future, because it is no longer a matter of declarations. Probably, if as a regulator we had been alert to credit performance in Spain, we would have saved ourselves much of the very serious external debt problems that we have suffered over the years. [[Applauds]] But, finally, let us leave history on its site, even if this is the subject to which I have just referred to a subject which has caused many problems for all the Spaniards in the future and which is one of the issues which has undoubtedly contributed to the very serious economic crisis from which fortunately we have already begun to emerge. To talk about the influence in Europe of the Spanish Government on dates such as those we are living in, I think it makes little sense at all to say that the influence of the Spanish Government in Europe has increased over the last few years. I say this because a meeting was held here on 4 March, attended by the President of the French Republic, the President of the Government of Portugal, the President of the European Investment Bank and the President of the European Commission to discuss one of the most important issues for Europe and Spain, such as the energy debate, which has been discussed so many times here this morning. I believe that this shows, among other things, that the Spanish Government has sufficient influence to bring this matter to the European Councils, to hold a meeting here at the highest level and to make public commitments. There is also little point in talking about this loss of influence when, on Monday of the same week, 32 out of 36 foreign ministers from the European Union and from the northern Mediterranean in Africa attended a meeting in Barcelona dealing with issues that are also central to the European Union's agenda, the issue of jihadist terrorism, for example, the issue of emigration and the unfortunate events and events to which many spokesmen have referred and to which I will also refer in the rest of my speech. In the same way, it makes little sense when, after taking possession of its responsibilities, both the President of the European Council and the President of the Commission have come to Madrid, the first, to deal with issues affecting the Mediterranean, which are very important for the European Union, when he has not yet gone to other major Mediterranean countries. In fact, I will tell the ladies and gentlemen that the influence comes basically from doing things right. I came to the government at the end of 2011, but it was 2012 when I attended European Council meetings for the first time and I saw what was happening then with our country and I see how our country is being treated today. If you - it is a very important issue - see Spain's assessment in the documents of the European Semester, you will be able to see how things have changed and that when you win influence, credit and respect is when you do things right and not when you do them wrong. I do not want to exhaust them, but there are some aspects that should be left in the minutes of the meeting we are holding today. In the European Semester 2012, when we arrived at the Government, the Commission concluded that Spain was experiencing very serious imbalances - that is to say, with these words - which had to be resolved urgently. Three years later, in the report for 2015, it considers that progress has been made in adjusting imbalances and that the resumption of growth has reduced risks. In these conclusions of the European Commission, Spain is better valued than France, Italy or Portugal, and I will not go into any more details because they do not do so. As for the macroeconomic situation, in 2012 it was said: The high indebtedness of the private sector and an unprecedented level of unemployment continue to obscure the prospects for Spain. The situation has been aggravated by the rigid labour market and the low wage adjustment. In 2015, the outlook is very different. The Commission points out that, after three years of recession, growth resumed in 2014 and prospects for 2015 and 2016 are improving, domestic demand driven by private consumption continues to propel growth and investment was one of the main factors for recovery. On the external sector and competitiveness, in 2012 it was said: The high external debt - a problem I referred to earlier when I spoke about the former governor of the Banco de España - poses serious risks and must lead to a sustainable debt. In 2015, the report on this issue says: The current account balance has been reversed, from a maximum deficit of 9.6% of GDP in 2007 to a surplus of 1.5% in 2013. Thus, the adjustment of the current account balance led the economy to regain its net financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world. As for private sector debt, in 2012 it was said: The large accumulated private sector debt is very worrying. The magnitude and extent of the necessary deleveraging implies a reduction in domestic demand in the medium term. Economic growth is therefore expected to be weak, with adverse implications for the debt repayment capacity of households and businesses. This was said in 2012 and they were right, as we saw in 2012 and 2013. However, in 2015 they say: Households and businesses are reducing their over-indebtedness. In addition, aggregate deleveraging is taking place selectively with a financial sector willing to finance healthier companies with favourable growth prospects. The Commission considers that the process of decoupling in Spain has so far been successful. Well, we could talk about what they say about the labour market, 2012: Unemployment has reached an unprecedented level and employability and segmentation of the labour market are significant bottlenecks. In 2015 they say that unemployment remains very high, which is true, but the trend has changed completely. There is an improvement in labour market conditions supported by a revival of the economy and a moderate rise in wages. We could talk about what they say in education and training policies and then it also has some negative aspects, such as when they say that we have not done the law of professional services, that there has been no progress, or when they refer to the mechanisms of control of the autonomous and local administrations, but anyone who compares with a minimum of objectivity what the European Commission said about Spain in the first half of 2012 and what it says today, in the first half of 2015, can only acknowledge that there has been a change in our country, fortunately to be better, although we still have a lot to do. Therefore, I cannot accept - and that is why, as I said earlier, I am referring to this part of your speech, Mr Sánchez - that we talk about the weight and influence of Spain as opposed to saying that it has improved with regard to previous situations. There is a different matter than that which I did not refer to in my speech, plainly and plainly because it was not spoken of or, rather, as I think Mr Sostres recalled in his speech, only for forty-seven seconds, which is the situation on Greece. The only thing that was said about Greece by the President of the European Council was that there was a meeting, but that meeting was not going to change at all, as it could not be otherwise, the decisions that had been taken in the Eurogroup. Forty-seven seconds was what was said about Greece, because it was not on the agenda and because it was a topic that was being dealt with who has the competence to do so, which is the Eurogroup, at that time. Having said that, as all speakers have spoken of Greece, I also feel obliged, because it is also an important issue, to speak of Greece. I will try, as clearly as possible, to express my opinion on what has happened and what may happen in the future. The first thing I want to say is that I do not want Greece to leave the euro. I think it is bad, first of all for Greek citizens, it is bad for the rest of the countries of the European Union and it is bad for the whole of the European project. Secondly, I want to be in solidarity with Greece and in fact my party has voted here - and the vast majority of this House too - all the decisions that have been taken on Greece, the first, the granting of a credit in 2010 of almost 7 billion euros that the government that presided over Mr Rodríguez Zapatero presented and that we support. We therefore want Greece to remain in the euro, we want to be in solidarity with Greece, but we also want Greece to fulfil its commitments as others do. I have to say in connection with some intervention that has taken place here that the position that the Spanish Government has maintained is exactly the same as that which the rest of the European governments have maintained regardless of their ideology, regardless of their ideology. That is to say, anyone who says that in the Eurogroup we have maintained a different position from the rest of the European governments does not tell the truth. From there, what has happened in Greece in the last few days? Greece had a program, it was a country that lived under program because it had been rescued. The program ended in November last year. What was being discussed was whether or not Greece had fulfilled its commitments. If Greece fulfilled its commitments, it would receive the last aid, EUR 7.2 billion, half of the International Monetary Fund, the rest of the European Central Bank and the MED. As elections were convened in Greece, it was decided that this evaluation would be extended and not done until the end of February. In this situation, a new Government accepted the responsibility to lead Greece's destinations. The new government said it was not going to meet its commitments, demanded unconditional money from the rest of its European partners, called for a World War II repair conference, announced that it would back off some of the measures the previous government had taken and announced an increase in public spending against its commitments. In the meantime, Greece has to pay its debts. You don't have to pay your debts to Europe. Mr Coscubiela spoke here about debt restructuring. The debt that Greece has with Spain is a debt whose principal begins to be paid in thirty years, that is, we can restructure or not, it can start within fifty or one thousand, but it starts to pay in thirty years, and the interest within ten, that is, the loan of 7,000 million and the guarantees to the MEDE of 18 billion that Spain has makes us talk about something that is for thirty years and the interest for ten years. It is true that he has to pay to the International Monetary Fund - and in fact he made a payment last week - and also to the European Central Bank, but his most important creditors are the European partners, we want to continue helping him and we are not going to tell him that what he has to start paying in thirty years' time he is paying now. What we will have to say to him is that he fulfils his commitments. On 20 February this year, Greece, realizing that Europe had to maintain what we had all agreed together, says it accepts conditionality, that it is going to meet budgetary objectives, that it is not going to reverse the measures of the previous government, that it is going to talk to the troika, although it is now called otherwise but they are exactly the same interlocutors, and that it is going to bring about reforms. He is told that this is a step forward, Greece is asked to implement those reforms, and the situation we are in now is exactly that. If Greece implements those reforms - and I think there will be flexibility on the part of everyone, of course I am in favour of that - Greece will give an important signal of seriousness, of compliance with commitments and I believe that we can start a positive path. That is the situation in Greece right now, and that is what the Spanish Government thinks, which is exactly what the rest of the governments think. Having said that, I believe that the main problem Greece has in my opinion is the need to grow and create jobs. He has no problem paying debt, because, as I said earlier, the bulk of the debt is owed to the European countries and to the MEDE and the interest is not beginning to be paid until ten years from now. So much so that I say that Greece, in proportion to its GDP, pays less interest, for example, than Spain, Italy or Ireland. There are probably very few countries in the Union that pay less. Once I have finished this chapter of Greece, on which many of the honourable Members have taken an interest, I would like to make a few brief comments on some of the statements that have been made regarding economic recovery and some economic lessons. Naturally, I tend to what everyone says, but there are some who by their trajectory do not have too much moral authority to give economic lessons, because I have arrived here and I have met a country on the verge of bankruptcy, on the verge of rescue, with a risk premium for the air that came to be above 600 points, I have encountered that there were public institutions in Spain, among others, autonomous communities, that could not go to the markets, I have encountered all the imbalances that existed and because there was, the public deficit, the deficit of the foreign sector, the financial system as it was, a negative economic growth for several years and a job creation that was not such, because every day that happened more employment was destroyed. Some things have changed. We are now growing to 1.4 last year and this year we are going to be the euro area country that we are growing most clearly. We're already creating jobs. Then they stick to everything, but after seven years of job destruction, last year 440,000 jobs were created and this year will be more, and this year in March 160,000 people have been able to join Social Security. It's positive data. I know there's a lot left to do, but, man, let's not give any lessons on these matters. There's talk of inequality. Well, the 80/20 index, the Gini index and the Arope index began to improve for the first time in many years in 2013; we still don't have the data for 2014, but you will see how much better they are. These are positive facts and I understand that the opposition often has to criticize because it does, but the issues could be chosen a little better. Just like when we talk about the welfare state. To maintain and improve the welfare state there is something that is crucial and that everyone understands, you have to create employment, and who makes decisions that generate in a legislature the loss of 3,400,000 jobs should not give lessons on this issue, because that led to the loss of 70 billion euros of revenue - that is what the whole House knows - and, of course, if there is 70 billion euros less income, it is not so easy to handle things. [[Applauds]] We still handled them, because the pension system is there, and this party has never frozen pensions. The health system is there, and there are 800,000 more Spaniards with a health card now than at the end of 2012. They have therefore had to make decisions, but this is a country that can now be proud of its welfare model. I am going to make some comments on energy that have naturally occupied the vast majority of the speakers. I am pleased that Mr Sánchez is in favour of the single energy market - I did not think otherwise - and that he is concerned about energy poverty, that he is concerned about the situation of renewables, energy efficiency and that he agrees with 10% of interconnection. That's fine with me. I am not going to go into any more details, because we have already had a debate on this matter here. However, yesterday the INE gave the light price data for this quarter, the first of this year, and there was a decrease in the electricity price above 2%; last year, 2014, there was also it; the only year in which there was a significant increase was in 2012, when we had just arrived at the government. Then, when I answer other speakers, I will comment on the situation of renewable energy, because I think it is important that I do. On the objectives of the deficit, another matter to which Mr Sánchez also referred in his speech, hearing this makes it difficult for me, because I came to the government at the end of 2011 and they told me: in 2011 we will have a deficit of 6 and suddenly it was 9 -3 points more - and the one who had to face, as was natural, for that was the president of the government, it was me. We are negotiating with the European Union, we have been reducing the deficit and it has been very difficult, because reducing the deficit with two years in recession is not easy. This year we had the target of 5.8%, which was set by the European Union, and we said: we believe that we can reach 5.5 - we were ambitious -; in the end it was 5.7 but it was motivated by the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg on the health cent, which gave us a tenth longer than GDP; if not, we would be at 5.5, although the Commission's objective was 5.8. Therefore, it does not seem fair to me that you are now talking about the public deficit, not because of your history and your party, nor because of what has happened over these three years in our country. Free trade agreement. It is an important issue to which many of the speakers have referred. There is no problem in appearing in the Courts, and I will therefore give instructions for such appearance to take place as quickly as possible. As far as immigration is concerned, I certainly agree with what the vast majority of the people who have spoken here have said. Yesterday in Italy more than 400 people lost their lives. It is a dramatic event because life is the most important thing people have, and it adds to everything that is happening over the last few days in that country. While I was in Barcelona last Monday, also near the coast of Libya, destined for Italy, 9 people lost their lives. Then I will go into more detail on some issues related to this policy. I shall now reply to Mr Duran's speech, which began by talking about Greece, and then entered the Council's three subjects: energy, employment and foreign policy. My position on the subject of Greece is sufficiently clear: we want Greece to remain in the euro - I repeat - we believe that it is good for everyone, we need to make an important effort for Greece to remain in the euro, but when someone is in a club and voluntarily assumes rules of play it is essential that those rules of play comply with them, because if we do not end up having a problem, and if every time there is a change of government in a certain country of the European Union the new government says that it is going to do the policies that it considers appropriate and appropriate, I could have said that it was not responsible for the public deficit that was in 2011, and that it was not going to come down, which, as anyone can understand, is somewhat absurd. I would like to refer to an issue that other speakers have also taken up in their speech, and that is why we were not at that meeting. That meeting was organized by Mr Tsipras and only invited the presidents of France and Germany - it was he who invited - not the president of Italy who was not at that meeting. That meeting did not have as you all know the value of any kind, and as I pointed out earlier in the forty-seven-second speech on this matter from Mr Tusk at the European Council, so it was made known to the people who were there, that we were the heads of State and Government of the different countries of the Union. I agree primarily with all of the speeches you have made on energy, but I would like to make a few comments, not many, because I have already referred to some things in the reply to Mr Sánchez. I agree that this is not just an economic issue; that is to say, this has political significance, and you said well when you brought back what is happening in Ukraine and Russia: simply with the interconnection of gas in Spain, 40% going from Russia to the rest of the countries of the European Union could have been sent, and therefore could have bought gas from Algeria from the rest of the countries of the European Union. I think that's a fact that says it all and corroborates the statement you've made here. This is therefore an important issue from all points of view, and it affects, for example, even immigration: if there are good electricity interconnections, electricity can be produced, and there are those who are willing to invest in North Africa, which is good for those countries and good for the whole of the European Union that would have more sources of supply. I therefore agree with what you have just said, and indeed all of us, Europe, would be more sovereign. There is another issue on which I would also like to make a brief comment, and it is the subject of energy efficiency. If we have done things in Spain, and in fact we have approved a National Energy Efficiency Action Plan 2014-2020 that will allow Spain to meet the savings objectives that derive from the directive, and very recently the Ministry of Industry itself, through the Institute for Diversification and Energy Saving, has allocated 168 million euros for energy efficiency and saving projects, with four lines of action: the energy rehabilitation of buildings, transport, SMEs and the large enterprise in the industrial sector and outdoor lighting, and the savings produced by these programs amount to the annual consumption of more than 150,000 families, which will avoid the annual emission to the atmosphere of more than 440,000 tons of CO2. Therefore, this is an issue that concerns us, it is an issue that we have devoted ourselves to, as is our obligation, and it is an issue on which we will continue in the future. I now turn to the subject of employment, not without saying that in energy policy there are two issues which are crucial. The first, the interconnections. They are a real problem for us. Before we talked here - I think it was Mr Martínez Gorriaran - about the price. Yes; if at a certain point in Spain it doesn't rain or it doesn't rain and we don't have interconnections, we have to have what we have, which are gas cycles, combined cycles that are not working normally, but which we have to have, because if we don't run out of energy. If we had the interconnection we would import it without any problem, and Spain could also export energy, because at the moment it produces much more electricity than it consumes. This issue is therefore important, and interconnections are the first priority, at least from my point of view, to achieve the great objective of lowering the price of light. Mr Duran also referred in his speech to employment, budgetary consolidation and reforms. He has talked about investment, which needs to be done and prioritized for the quality of projects that generate employment and growth. I agree, but I am not with any of the other statements you have made regarding high-speed trains. Luckily in Spain we have a good high speed network and that has been very good, because it has improved tourism, improved movements, investments in cities, and indeed in the vast majority of them - you know better those of Catalonia - are very happy to have there the high speed train. On the agreement with the USA you say that it should end in Obama's time. That's the goal. Obama ends his term as everyone knows at the end of 2016. The idea is that this can be closed at the beginning of 2016. As I said earlier, I am prepared to give rise to a debate on this matter in this House. I have to say that I am in favour of the free trade agreement with the United States. This is fundamental, the world goes that way. To oppose free trade does not know if it would make sense five centuries ago; it is now thought of by very few. We are the two big areas of the world where you trade most. We have a very important part of world GDP, we can set rules for all, and at this time the most important problem there is, the key, the decisive one, refers to the difficulties in resolving investor disputes, that is, whether or not arbitration mechanisms exist. Various speakers have spoken on this subject. There's been talk of multinationals saying there are multinationals who don't want to. This is really going to be very positive for small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe, and also for those in the United States. Here whenever it comes to opposing someone you have to give someone else a stake. No, some multinationals are against this free trade agreement. In foreign policy, the issue of Ukraine and Russia is certainly complex and very difficult to resolve. We also have to deal with it as it has been said here - I think it was Mr Esteban in his speech -: one thing is the Russia-Ukraine problem, another thing is how Ukraine works, what it has to do and what it does not have to do. I believe that at the moment the solution that has been adopted and the position that the European Union maintains is the most sensible. That is to say, at the moment it is a question of compliance with the Minsk agreements, even if only for two reasons: because they are the only agreements that exist, and because they have led to a ceasefire, with exceptions, that there are, but that is already a positive fact in itself. We know very well the situation in the agricultural and livestock sector - up to that point we could get there - and last year we worked in the European Union, before the Commission, for compensation and we are prepared for anything that might happen in the future. I turn to the subject of Libya and take the opportunity to speak briefly about immigration policy, because it is the position I have always held, since I was Minister of the Interior a few years ago and I had to attend JHA meetings in Brussels. Libya is indeed a failed State today. Some intervener - I think it was Mr Esteban - was saying: this of them agreeing for a government of national unity everyone knows that this is not going to happen. We'll see about that. I don't think - and I don't know anyone who has - of a different alternative. We are working intensively, the UN together with the European Union, we have the same person at the head of operations, and at the moment what needs to be done is to try to have a government of national unity. What cannot be there are two parliaments, two governments and only one bank in Libya, which is the only thing that works there, I suppose. This is a subject that affects many things, including immigration. The issue of immigration is crucial. I do not know whether, as Mrs Barkos said in her speech, it is necessary to put it at a level above jihadism. I think we have to deal with both things at once, because they are certainly important issues, but the solution is ultimately to agree with the countries of origin and transit where these people come from, and to fight against the mafia and improve cooperation. I agree with what has been said, that the main problem in these countries is poverty, probably along with human rights. We would certainly be in an infinitely better situation if we were to make progress in those two matters - others would come later. Therefore, Mr Duran, I agree with what you have said about immigration, and that this is not a religious war, but between civilization and barbarism, and in fact many Muslims have also been killed by these groups, which are still fanatical and terrorist groups. I shall now reply to Mr Coscubiela's speech. I have explained my position on the subject of Greece, which was the first thing he was concerned about in his speech. I told him about the debt restructuring. I have pointed it out here, but I insist on what I have pointed out to you before. The problem is economic growth and employment. I have explained how the Greek debt situation is, and I think it is best for everyone to have an understanding between the Eurogroup, which ultimately represents - because they are there - all the countries of the European Union, and the Greek Government. He's made a number of statements. On energy issues there is one issue that I think is good for the whole House to know. We came to the government with a broken system, because there were 26 billion euros of debt that each year were increasing by 7,000 or 8,000 more, and we had to do something. If this resulted in a fall in the price of light, it turns out that in the last eight years the light had increased by 6.9%. Either we did something or we had a problem. Why did this happen? For many reasons, but the most important one was that given in his speech by the spokesman for the People's Group, Mr Hernando. I am not against renewables - how am I going to be? - and what I am against is that they have a profitability of between 20% and 25%. I recommend that you read, because it is very illustrative, an article that I used here on one occasion - I am not going to go into detail now - of the former Minister of Industry, Mr Sebastián, because I think it is good that we do not act with prejudice, but that we really know what has happened. When someone knows a subject and knows that he has made mistakes and has the intellectual decency to publish it, he will not normally give bad advice to people who are willing to read his article, which I insist that I have read, seems very important to me, and they should all read it. I have to say that renewables today have a 7.5 % annual guarantee, which is not the 20 % or 25 % State guaranteed remuneration, but 7.5 % annually seems to me to be quite positive. I insist on what I told you before. He talks about the argument of legal certainty. The Supreme Court has given reason to the Government of Spain when it took decisions on this matter. I don't know what legal certainty will be like in our country. What I do know is that the latest data published by the OECD say that Spain is the country of the European Union that is receiving the most foreign investment in recent times. We are the ninth in the world, and from the western countries we are outnumbered by the United States, Canada and Australia. This is a positive fact, and it is also important that we all have it in our heads. He said that little progress had been made in the areas of fiscal policy, fiscal harmonisation and so on. The European Union is probably not going at the speed at which it should go. Then, referring to some other intervention, I will touch on this subject. We have been in favour of greater integration. The banking union has already been made, and it has been made in this period. When I came to the government, we had not started talking about the banking union, that is, that things are already being done. There is one very important issue: fiscal union, which is not going to be easy, because it affects nuclear aspects of the sovereignty of individual countries, and then there is the issue of political union. I agree that - as you said in your speech, I believe that Mr Esteban - what has happened, these debates that have taken place and that we have seen in public opinion, do not do much to help European political union. Finally, he also referred to the issue of the free trade treaty with the United States. I have already given my opinion before, I think it is an issue that can indeed be discussed, but I have already said where the main difficulties on the part of everyone are at present. He has also spoken in his economic intervention, and says that the exit from the crisis is the move to massive unemployment. I understand that you have to criticize the government, but as my colleague in the parliamentary group said, you should be a little more thoughtful of your statements, because that would also give you more credibility, believe me that I say this for your sake and not in a spirit different from what I have just mentioned in this part of my speech. There is an important fact, since you have talked about inequality: if you pick up indicator 80/20 - I have it here - or pick up Gini indicator or poverty rate indicator - all are the figures published by Eurostat - the years 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 were very bad, but 2013 we improved. In the case of indicator 80/20 we are already better than in 2009; in the case of the Gini indicator we are already better than in 2009, and in the case of the poverty rate we are already as in 2009. This does not satisfy me, but it is clear that the change in trend has taken place, and that some of the decisions that are being made are fortunately having beneficial effects for the citizens as a whole. It is important, and this is the end of the renewable energy section, that all honourable Members know that at this time the bulk of the energy being consumed in Spain is renewable energy. It is also increasing compared to 2012, that is, that one thing is that they have fewer premiums, and another is that they increase. The first is renewable energy, almost 50%, and the second is nuclear energy, 20%. We are in favour, in fact, of improving the use of renewables in our time. What we want are interconnections that lower the price of light and have no tariff deficit. You come up here and always talk about multinationals; we have nothing to do with any multinational, we have had problems - and everyone knows it - with the electricity companies, we have tried to explain our position to them, they have criticized us and they are in their right if they think that what we do is not right, but we are to defend general interests. I insist, general interests of all citizens, and not even partisan interests, let alone those to which you refer in your intervention. Mr Gorriarán says that I have not spoken about European economic policy. He says that some positive data observed in Spanish policy are fundamentally - as Mr Esteban also says in his speech - a consequence of European decisions, and not of Spanish decisions. I cannot agree with that statement, and I have also explained it on numerous occasions in this very rostrum. We propose a policy based on five points: firstly, fiscal consolidation in Spain; secondly, structural reforms in Spain; and thirdly, fourthly and fifthly, Europe. Much progress has been made in economic reforms in economic union; integration, banking union has been made, and liquidity, it is true that the European Central Bank has now taken decisions that I would have liked to have already taken in 2012. But if all this had occurred only by European decisions someone would have to explain to me why Spain is growing much more than the rest of the great countries of the European Union, with the exception of Germany. That is to say, what has been done in our country has undoubtedly been very useful to avoid much of the problems, and to ensure that we are now in a different situation. I repeat the arguments. You have also referred to this issue on the subject of Greece. He also spoke of poverty, inequality and unemployment. He talked about Tunisia. I agree. Tunisia needs special attention, because it is a country that has been modelled on its territory, has been able to make democratic elections with an unappealable result. He has referred to energy issues, and I repeat that the objectives are those I have previously pointed out. I do not agree with the premium policies that have been made to renewables. I would urge you to read the previous Minister of Industry's article because it is very illustrative. But I repeat that I agree with the renewables, and with this I have responded to the bulk of their interventions. Mr. Esteban started talking about Mr. Varoufakis and Mr. Schäuble. I've answered this matter. I don't have to go into any more details. I agree that political and fiscal integration in Europe is necessary. I think it is going to happen, I think Europe is going to shoot, but the progress is always in the right direction. Europe loses the economic battle and we are late in some decisions? I'm not going to say no, because I've been making some decisions, which fortunately have happened, since I got there. But some progress has been made. Progress has been made in the internal market. It is still to be completed. Fiscal and political integration remains, as I have just pointed out and you recalled. The ECB has already taken some important decisions. There have been consequences that come to us as well as the exchange rate situation, which allows us to export and that is good for our economic growth. But I think the Juncker Plan is a step in the right direction. I hope that this will become a reality - I have been asked here - and that from June onwards investment decisions can be taken by all the citizens. He has commented on the situation of the Spanish economy. He has started by acknowledging that economic and employment growth is taking place, but from there I have not seen him very generous with the actions of the economic leaders of the Government and its President. There are very positive data, Mr Esteban, because, among other things, prices have been falling for many months, and that is very good for the competitiveness of the economy and for the maintenance of purchasing power. There are data that indicate that things are improving. They're not macroeconomic anymore, it's microeconomy. The increases that have occurred in the sale of homes or the record for the sale of cars in this first quarter mean that someone will have bought them. Retail trade data, after six years of demolition, are beginning to be much better. Reference has been made to tourism data and to other data which are undoubtedly very positive for the Spanish economy. I reiterate what I said in relation to the public deficit when I answered Mr Sánchez. Also what I said about the welfare state. There is one issue I would like to point out on territorial issues. We have not done as they might have the temptation, and one said in this rostrum at some time, that each one should endure his candle. With us each one did not hold his candle, because there were thousands and thousands of suppliers, and thousands and thousands of unpaid bills, public institutions that could not go to markets, public institutions that could not pay their dues, and there was the Spanish State. That is very important and we should all be proud that that has been so, because this has been an operation that, believe me, has not been easy. It's about the officials. The replacement rate was 10%. This year has risen to 50%. This affects the Basque Government, the rest of the Governments of that country and the Government of Spain. 50 % replacement rate. As things get better, we can make decisions that you might like best. But we're starting at 10% and now we're at 50%. Mr Esteban also spoke about Ukraine, Libya, and the agreement with the United States. I believe that I have already referred to these issues. In particular, in the case of Ukraine, he referred to the submerged economy, the oligarchs, etc., and in the case of Libya, I believe that I have given him a timely answer before, when he answered another speaker. Mr Larreina, I agree with what you said about the unfortunate events that took place yesterday. As I pointed out earlier, 400 people have lost their lives, and that requires dedication, strength, and that this issue is the priority of European decisions. I believe that it is very difficult for there to be a European Council in which I do not put this matter on the table, and in fact the meeting we held in Barcelona this Monday with all the Mediterranean countries had two objectives: one was terrorism, and the other was the problems that are arising in the area of immigration. So this is an important issue that we certainly have to worry about, not from the economic point of view. Europe is not just an economy, I agree with you, but the Coal and Steel Community you mentioned in your speech was not an economy; that had its origin in World War II, even if it wanted to do so in the First: the great problems that occurred among the great European powers. Here it was said: we are going to put all this in common here; from there we are going towards a political union, although then in time economic union was actually given priority. But I am convinced that in terms of security, justice, freedom, foreign and defence policy, Europe is going to move forward and will do so in the near future more intensively than before. I've already explained what's going on with the price of light. I think it is a positive fact that the INI said yesterday that it has lowered the price of light in the first quarter of this year. We are working to ensure that this continues to happen in the future. Today there are fewer temporary workers than at the end of 2011, but there are some sectors where it is very difficult to make indefinite contracts by the very structure of these sectors. But if you look at the latest data from the EPA, you will see that the number of indefinite contracts in our country is increasing. Mr. Tardà, you've made some disquisitions. I believe that the Minister of the Interior explained yesterday with meridian clarity in the Senate what his position was on this matter. I agree with you on what you have indicated about the Minister of the Interior. You and I do not know each other because we have not had the opportunity to do so; it is clear that we can disagree on very important political issues, but one thing is politics, and the other undoubtedly the various issues. I believe that the issue of jihadism is a very important one. I do not agree with what you have said about electricity. I also recommend that you read the article of the former Minister of Industry because it is extremely important. Illustrate everyone about what to do. And I have given instructions to resolve as quickly as possible, if the Government has the opportunity to do so, the matter in which you have been concerned, that of the person who has applied for asylum in our country. Mrs Fernández Davila says Social Security is growing to 0.96. Social Security data is social security data, and everyone knows them who has the least interest in seeing them. I bring them here because I normally go with Social Security data, and I have no inconvenience in putting them at your disposal, because I update them every month. The number of members of Social Security in Spain began to decline in June 2008, and since then it has been steadily decreasing for almost six years, until February 2014, and since February 2014 it has been rising every month. Today, the latest data, which is March, shows that we already have 536.00 members of Social Security more than in March last year. This is a very positive fact because we had months during the crisis in which, if I compared one month to the month of the previous year, more than a million members had been lost. I therefore believe that this is a positive fact; we are going in the right direction, although much remains to be done. But in relation to January 2012, which was our first month is the Government, in that month there were only 100,000 more affiliates than now. I am convinced that in just a few months we will already be in a better situation - also here - than at the beginning of the legislature. I don't understand numerical discussions when really, although almost everything is opinionable in this life, numbers are hardly questionable. I have taken very good note of what you have said about the free trade agreement with the United States. I actually answered when I did it to other speakers, because you were the one who made the reference to the multinationals. I do not know if the foreign newspapers say that I am against informing the public about the free trade agreement. Be absolutely certain that that's not the case, I've never said that, and I don't think so. I will not recommend that you ignore what the foreign newspapers say, but you do read them between lines or if you ask me, as you have done today. Mr Quevedo, there is nothing good, not in Mr Quevedo's intervention, but in Spain according to Mr Quevedo's intervention. I believe that in terms of economic growth and employment, things are improving in our country and we will continue to persevere so that this will continue to happen in the future. The same applies to energy. I do not share, from what I have explained, some of the statements you have made here, but I can understand them. With regard to energy, my position is that there should be interconnections, that the price of light should be lowered and that there should be renewables, but that they should not be subject to genuinely abusive prices. I am pleased that Mr Baldoví made the promise he made at the beginning of his speech. Believe me, I'm really happy, I tell you heartily, that you did it. In his speech he referred to the issue of renewable energies, also to R & D+i. It seems to me to be a very important issue. We are the tenth country in the world but we must aspire to more. We have had to reduce, for the reasons you know, in the 2012 and 2013 budgets, already in 2014 we have improved the position and this year 2015 is one of the budget items to which we have devoted special attention. On the subject of growth and employment, my position is that which I have just referred to now and which you know. Inequality has not increased, the last year it increased was in 2012. Now - as I told you before - the Gini 80/20 and Arope indices are improving, and I hope that when we get to know the results of 2014 we will have a joy. And on the issue of unemployment coverage, the unemployment expenditure that has been made in Spain in recent years, because there were many people in unemployment, has been very important, more than 30 billion euros; it has been the second item after pensions in the government budget that I chair. And we have taken two important decisions: the first, extending the Plan Prepares indefinitely, a plan that was being extended every six months, which was left to the free will of the Government; and the second, making an agreement with the unions in December last year so that those people who were in special difficulty, who were unemployed for a long time, would also have help and could be trained to have more access to the labour market. Therefore, recognizing the difficulties, which have been and many of them have been and still remain, no one can deny that the situation of the Spanish economy today has absolutely nothing to do with that of 2012. Mr Álvarez Sostres, the main source of infrastructure financing in Spain is the General Budgets of the State, but let us not forget that European funds only subsidise a percentage of investment that has to be advanced by the State. The Ministry of Development is currently driving the Asturias line and as far as the execution of the corridor is concerned, the works between Valladolid and León are moving quickly towards its commissioning and in the variant of Pajares are also very advanced all the infrastructure works. The Palencia - Gijón Corridor is being promoted by the Ministry of Development, as projects for the León-La Robla section were launched in April last year. The information study of Pola de Lena-Oviedo-Gijón has also been advanced, in which the geotechnical campaign between Pola de Lena and Oviedo has been carried out, which is a very complex area, as you know, and it is also intended that the high speed reaches Aviles. As for integration in Gijón, progress has been made in the development of the liberated soils known as El Solarón. Finally, as far as European financing is concerned, this line has already been allocated European funds from the ERDF amounting to EUR 887 million, both for projects and platform works and facilities of the variant of Places and for the platform works of Sale of Baths-Palencia-Leon, and in the new financing period funds have been requested from the Connecting Europe Facility to implement an investment of EUR 547 million, which includes actions in both the Palencia-Gijón corridor and the León-La Robla section and the installation of the Ertms. Therefore, the works continue and this Government, despite the situation of difficulty that is gradually improving, does not forget its commitments. He has spoken about energy, growth, foreign policy, he has expressed conflicting positions with those of the Government, not in all cases, and he has also spoken about Greece, but I think I have already explained my position and I do not want to go too far because we would never finish this debate. I agree with a statement made by Mr Salvador and I have to say that, as far as I am concerned, it is absolutely true. Let's not ideologicalize energy. What is at stake is to make the interconnections so that we can provide energy to the cheapest and most environmentally friendly terms. But let us not ideologicalize energy because that does not lead to anything and, of course, does not solve any problems. I agree with what you said about the European Semester; I also bet on investing with European funds and I share that view. The treaty with the United States must be a fair treaty. I'm glad you supported him, too. On Greece he has used four words that I fully subscribe to: the agreement has to be fair, weighted, uncomposed and unmatched. It is true, otherwise said, that we must help Greece, we want it to remain in the euro, but we all have to fulfil the commitments because if not, it would be impossible for it to work. I agree with the single European voice on the outside - on immigration issues it would certainly be very important - and I am glad to say - and we will not - that we should not lower our guard on terrorism matters. Mrs Barkos referred in her speech to the sad and unfortunate events that took place yesterday in Italy. He also referred to the fact that at the Mediterranean Summit we are dealing more with issues of terrorism than with these real human misfortunes. I don't think so. This is an issue that concerns us and concerns us. We need to give him all the attention we can and, above all, we need to be more effective. In Spain, some things have been done with some African countries in other legislatures that we have also maintained in this Parliament, but the European Union, acting as a whole, has more strength than the national States, doing it individually, especially with the situation that is going through at this time Libya, where the dialogue is of immense complexity, which makes things very difficult. I agree that fighting poverty is crucial but, as I said earlier, poverty and human rights. If we intend to have fifteen goals at once, in the end, we will not achieve any. The Juncker Plan will run in June. As far as renewables are concerned, we are not missing any real opportunity. We've tried to be fair. As I have said before, it has been and continues to be today - and since we have come to the government even more - who generate greater electricity capacity in our country. I am grateful for the support of the People's Parliamentary Group and I agree with the statement made by its spokesman, who made a very clear statement about what has happened with renewable energies in the past. It has supported the Government's position on interconnections. It is a very important goal for our country. Indeed, the Commissioner for Energy - this influences, knows our country -, as it could not be otherwise, is doing what he has to do. In fact, since the arrival of the new Commission, which was only six months ago, the issues to which the European Council has paid the most attention have been those relating to energy. As far as economic growth and employment are concerned, there are some very positive data to which you referred in your intervention - I had not been able to do so in mine - which are very positive. Exports have risen a lot in Spain, and that is a hugely important fact. If you analyze the economic history of Spain you will see that whenever we have gone abroad, whenever we have looked out we have been in a better situation. The tourism data are really remarkable, we are in the most important figures of our history. It is very positive that the construction sector is starting to lift its head. It is also very positive - as he said in his speech - a negative inflation and it is very positive that investment in equipment is growing. The unemployment and social security figures are very good. What is now a question of persevering, maintaining the same path and not changing an economic policy that has allowed us to emerge from a situation of enormous complexity and which, in my opinion, will lead us to figures of economic growth that we have not seen in our country for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I have overstretched my speech, but it is certainly complex to try to answer all the questions that have been raised by so many speakers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. We entered a replica shift and, I insist, as I said at the spokesperson meeting, I'm going to be very strict. I haven't been in the first intervention, but now I am for the time we are. Mr Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, you are talking about influence and I will remind you of the words of Mario Draghi, the governor of the European Central Bank, when he was precisely criticising the management of Spain in the rescue of Bankia. I quote Mr. Draghi: That is the worst possible way to do things because in the end everyone ends up doing the right thing, but at the maximum cost and at the possible price. That is to say, as you commented that Spain's influence today is greater because things are well done, Mario Draghi, and in relation to Bankia's rescue, Mr Rajoy, I think I amend the plan. By the way, yesterday we knew the figures given by the president of FROB at a meeting at the Congress of Deputies, where he gave up 40 billion euros of the financial bailout, when his government promised that Spanish citizens would not be costing a hundred euros the financial bailout you have made. So it's not doing things right, it's doing things wrong and eventually making mistakes for the Spanish taxpayer to pay them with their taxes. Mr. Rajoy, I have to beat the tax consolidation figures. You have made a fiscal adjustment that is purely ideological, it is a fiscal adjustment against the welfare state because at the end of which you have rested that fiscal adjustment, Mr Rajoy, it was precisely in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities. I'll give you some figures. According to the General Intervention of the State, the deficit of the Central Administration, that is, the General Administration of the State and Social Security - we are not talking about the number of affiliates, Mr Rajoy, we are talking about the collection as a result of that number of affiliates in the Treasury of Social Security - which depends on you, on your management, has increased by 15.8 billion euros since 2011. Spain is now the third developed country with the highest level of public deficit: 5.7% compared to the OECD average of thirty-four countries, which is 2.2%. It is the second developed country with the highest rate, the highest level of debt between 2011 and 2014; that is, you have applied budgetary rigour precisely to the welfare state, to those institutions and administrations that have competence with regard to public education, public health, dependence and also social policies. The autonomous communities have been cut between 2011 and 2014 by €37 billion. So, Mr Rajoy, when you talk about budgetary rigour you always assume it but, in the end, it is other public administrations that apply that budgetary rigour. This also happens with Social Security. You previously replied to the Member of the Gallego Nationalist Block, but both she and I in my intervention did not talk about the number of contributors, but about the perverse effects that labour reform is having on the collection of social security. I will tell you one thing, Mr Rajoy: since you have been governing the social security deficit by ten times, it has increased from 0.1 to 1.1 %, which has to do with wage devaluation, job insecurity, the kind of contracts that are being created in this country as a result of the labour reform, which I assure you we are going to repeal the socialists as soon as we reach the government. That's what we're gonna do. [[Applauds]] We are going to adopt a new workers' statute that will restore the lost labour rights as a result of their reform. You assume that there are more fixed contracts right now, but 92% of contracts in this country are temporary, i.e. precarious contracts; only 8% are indefinite. By the way, that 8% we are talking about includes fixed breaks and also part-time contracts, Mr Rajoy. So please put all the figures on the table so as not to give a distorted view of the dramatic reality of the labour market that has been caused precisely by its labour reform. I say this to you, Mr Rajoy, because, returning to Europe, the European Semester is here and we have a public deficit problem that we have to control and it is not the autonomous communities and the municipalities that have a budget surplus, the ones that have to make the effort, but the general administration of the state. I told him in my first speech that right now countries like France and Italy have asked the European Commission for greater flexibility in meeting these public deficit targets. What I want you to do is to do the same, Mr Rajoy, to talk to the European Commission, to Mr Juncker and to ask that those expenses linked to the Juncker Plan do not amount to the public deficit in our country. And finally, Mr Rajoy, when we talk about influence - to end where I started - we gain influence by having credibility in the European Union, by doing things right and above all by being consistent with the past. Mr Rajoy, you have had at the head of the economic departments - and even with your support when I was President of Caja Madrid - a person whom we discovered a few hours ago who welcomed the tax amnesty approved by your Government and which we have so much criticized, Mr Montoro - and you know it well - from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. So I insist on my statement: lessons from the Spanish Government on tax fraud, none; now, on tax amnesty, Mr Montoro, Mr Rajoy, all. Because here there has been a great teacher of tax amnesties who has applied a great student of those tax amnesties. The teacher has been Rat and the applied student has been precisely Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]] And I ask you from here, Mr Montoro - and with this I finish - that you, out of political decency, abandon your seat and resign as Minister of Finance. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, very briefly and, if I can, with proposals; and yes, I can because I do and you know it. I have already recognized you before that the energy sector disaster is not strictly your responsibility because it is two-handed; but that does not make it less serious but precisely more worrying. My proposal is: to remember an energy audit that once and for all allows us to identify the problems of tariff deficit and the problems of our energy system, and to establish a stable regulatory system that also guarantees access to basic goods such as energy to people who suffer from energy poverty today. I hope you are right and this time it is not the citizens who have to pay out of their pocket the cost of the decisions taken by your Government. But at the moment, we have hundreds of claims in the courts resulting from the decision to change the legal framework for the investment of renewables, and when one Government changes the legal framework of another, it generates legal uncertainty for a lot of reason that you want to say you have, and that unfortunately is raining on wet. As far as employment is concerned, I haven't explained myself wrong or wanted to hear it wrong. What I have said is that you have set us a road map that leads us from massive unemployment to widespread unemployment and structural underemployment, structural underemployment, and that is ultimately your part-time contract model. But I would like to make you another offer: you have a monographic debate on employment. It makes no sense that after the times we have raised it, you have not devoted a monographic debate to the country's first problem and are about to end the legislature. Accept to discuss in depth diagnoses and alternatives. On the transatlantic trade and investment treaty, do not trap us; no one is against trade and free trade. We are against and oppose a transatlantic investment and trade treaty whose main objective is to create a large economic area without any kind of political control mechanism, and that we already know, from the experience of the European Union, where it leads us. It basically leads us to a situation of the displacement of political power from citizens and their institutions to markets, which are the ones who end up imposing policies, which is what has happened to this country with its employment policies, with labour reform, with its connivance and with the dictate of the troika. We do not want that, and that is why we oppose that transatlantic treaty in those terms. And above all to the establishment of a replacement of courts of justice by arbitral tribunals. Arbitral mechanisms are good for resolving conflicts between parties voluntarily, but you know that at the moment some of these arbitration mechanisms have forced European and non-European States to change their policies because a private arbitral body has decided that these policies should be changed. That's what we're not willing to accept. In any case, we demand transparency; if there is something opaque and dark in Europe right now, it is the transatlantic treaty and you do not want the citizens to know what is being discussed. Finally, out of courtesy with Mr Hernando, who asks me to make a correction or to apologize, that for the case it would be the same, and he does it to me concretely and directly that I have no proposals or arguments and only insults, let me tell him that if anything I have demonstrated during these three years is that I do not lack arguments and alternatives. Be a little more cautious, because I remind you that you are the Member who has come here to explain to us that that of climate change looks quite like the Mayan prophecy of the end of the world. I mean, I'm asking you for prudence in personal imputations. Let's get to the point. I don't insult you, I simply tell you what you don't like to hear. I tell you by echoing what many people are telling me right now, not everyone, but citizenship tells me on many occasions. You would like this Congress to be a bubble; indeed, look at your reaction. Someone comes here, puts a mirror on them and teaches them their reality, which they don't like because in some ways it's quite embarrassing, and instead of changing it, you kick the mirror and want to muzzle and shut up the mirror wearer. And that can't be, they're going to have to get used to us telling them something obvious and it's that this legislature is full of situations - not only of the previous period but of the present - in which leaders of the People's Party are immersed in situations of corruption. Did I make it up? [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: Will you apologize?]] I'll get there. Did I make it up? I didn't make it up. He shows up today. They are not any, they are top-level leaders with the connivance - and I have said so - of the President of the Spanish Government, because if there are not some things that could not happen like what we have discovered today from Mr Rat.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u55	Mr. Coscubiela, I warned you I wouldn't give you any more time. You have ten seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u56	I have to explain it to Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u57	No, you do it later in writing. You say whatever you want, but you've got 20 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u58	Since I am not a descendant of Zoroaster, I am not one of those who believe that all good is on one side and all evil is on the other. Of course, I would never think of saying that a human group is all corrupt and that a human group is all honest, what I can tell you is that there are human groups that promote, tolerate, defend and protect corruption. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: Will you apologize?]] However, there is a very clear mechanism for Mr Montoro to fulfil his promise to give transparency to tax fraud, to give transparency to the tax amnesty and we will all know that. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: Will you apologize?]] If there is anyone who has felt offended, I will personally ask them; as a group I do not have to apologize, I have to ask for responsibilities. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u59	Mr Coscubala, you have finished your speech. [[Applauds]] For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll speak briefly. I thank you, Mr Rajoy, for the tone with which you gave the answer. Starting with the things that we seem to agree on - which is always a satisfaction even if it doesn't seem like it - I think it's great that you have the same opinion as many of us about the terrible news that Greece would come out of the euro and support Tunisia. In this regard, I believe that the governments in the European Council should be much more proactive because we must send explicit messages of support to those who risk democracy as they do in Tunisia and also in Greece, why not. Because the kind of communication from the European Union to Greece has often been trumped with bureaucratic hostility and that gets the rise of populisms, right-wing and left-wing, and putting under strain essential aspects of European agreements and that can be avoided. It can be avoided by explaining things as they are and of course by adopting the example you have mentioned - with which we agree - of supporting Greece in exchange for fulfilling those commitments and then there will be flexibility. That should be the dominant message and not others who have been the dominant ones, perhaps sometimes not because they are the ones you want, we already know how this works, but that is why we must insist much more. In this regard, and in his explanation of the role of Europe and the role of national policy in economic consolidation, it is our duty as an opposition to remind him of this. It is easy to heal sectors even as complex and large as financial if we start from the principle of socializing losses and privatizing profits; it is not surprising then that everyone comes excited if they have sufficient resources of all kinds, political and monetary, to invest. Because if it happens as in Spain, that the FROB itself warns that probably 70% of the public aid for the sanitation of the financial sector - read Cajas - is irrecoverable, of course anyone would be happy to be healed, change cabbage! That is not capitalism, that is something else and that is what we insist that we must overcome. Just like the investment in debt. It is very good that we are now issuing debt even with negative interests, but it is a bubble and a dangerous mirage because the threat of the debt crisis is still there, which has been precisely the one at the origin of the euro crisis, and that has us, like many other people in Spain, extremely worried. We would like a correction in that regard, we cannot finance ourselves with debt in a perpetual way and then congratulate ourselves on placing more because the interests are negative. We think, on the other hand, that there would be more investment and that it would be of better quality if there was a better regulatory framework and more legal certainty precisely for investments in emerging sectors, the digital economy and others, which remain an outstanding issue for his Government. Just like the energy. It has previously given a contradictory explanation as to why the lack of European connectivity led to an increase in the electricity bill in Spain. If we have, as we have, surplus of electrical production - and I agree with you, we have said it many times, so it is very convenient and very important for Spain to increase the connection -, there can be that surplus of supply of electrical production and at the same time a constant and sustained increase of the invoice price because there have been no peaks, but it has been constant and sustained. The origin of the problem is not in the wind, it is in the market model, and that is why we insist that it is essential that the Council be very clear - and the decisions it takes on it are very transparent - what kind of European energy market will be launched, because if the model is slightly similar to the interventionist we continue to suffer in Spain - which, by the way, suffer from both large companies and of course small investors and all users - it would be very bad news. I'm done. We continue to believe that it is essential that political, social and European integration be genuinely promoted from the government, and that means that governments must accept to renounce part of their power in exchange for greater democratic control by the European Parliament and by the independent supervisory bodies, and of course by the participation of European citizens. Without that, the European project will be increasingly subjected to unbearable tensions and could end badly, and it is in our hands to avoid it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Basque Group? [[Denials]] Thank you very much. Mr Hernando, for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u62	Mr President, just by making a reply for allusions to what Mr Coscubiela has said. Mr Coscubiela, you have made some very serious accusations to my parliamentary group and have used, as you often do every time you come up to the rostrum, a mantra that includes all people, especially the members of my group, and I want to come out here to claim the decency and honesty of my parliamentary group and this Government, with this government at the head. [[Applauds]] Mr Coscubala, this has been the government that has done most against corruption and in the fight against fraud, it has done so with the president of the government and with the rest of the government, also with Mr Montoro; and I do not accept that others who have done nothing in the past and have created situations that we all have to endure today come to give lessons here from nothing either to my parliamentary group or to this government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I promise to be brief and to start this for me this morning's third speaking time by making a brief comment to complete something I said earlier on renewable energies. Look at you, ladies and gentlemen, what the reform that the government has done - regardless of whether the government understands that there are some people who cannot share it - has meant: the production of renewable energy in Spain has increased between 2012 and 2014 from 80,000 gigawatts/hour to almost 110,000 gigawatts/hour. In 2014, renewable energy produced more electricity in Spain than any other energy source. 42.8 % of peninsular electricity demand in 2014 was covered by renewable energy sources; nuclear covered 21.9 %, gas covered 18.9 % and coal covered 16.4 %. Electricity production in the peninsula from renewable sources has increased from 31.9% of total electricity in 2012 to 42.8% in 2014. Now I'm going to give another important fact as well. Spain remains above the 20% renewable target by 2020, surpassing the countries in our environment. Spain reached 16.6% in 2013 - in 2011 it was 15.1% - and the rest of the countries in our environment have: United Kingdom 3.8%, Italy and France 11.5% and Germany 12.3%. Therefore, I encourage all of you to study this matter, which is complex and difficult, and to be considered in your judgment. They should understand that the only thing that a government cannot accept is that the light goes up continuously, as well as the tariff deficit, and that we have the system on the verge of bankruptcy and that there are those who receive bonuses or returns of 20 or 25% per year guaranteed by the state. That would be an irresponsibility of the Government of Spain. I'm going on dates now. He mentioned Mr Sánchez in his speech to Mr Draghi. I too will start with a reference to Mr Draghi, who is not as old as Mr Sánchez's. It is more modern, it has been published in a Spanish newspaper only forty-eight hours ago: Spain is the country that has best fulfilled its obligations, which is why it is at the head of the economic recovery - Mr Draghi -. Something similar happened to me at the G-20 when I went to Australia. In Brisbane - believe me that I did not ask and was surprised after attending in 2012, in Mexico, the meeting of the G-20 and having received there all kinds of "parabians" - I was asked to give a presentation on how economic reforms can lead to recovery. Therefore, there are some that do not coincide - I the first - with the diagnosis you have made. You are fully free to make the diagnosis you consider appropriate and convenient, but there are some things you will understand that will give me a certain surprise. How can you talk about the public deficit when you voted in favour of reforming article 135 of the Constitution against the deficit and then said that it was necessary to re-amend article 135 against the public deficit? [[Applauds]] You can't make that kind of claims here. How can you blame me for having a 5.7 deficit in Spain - that there is - after leaving us a deficit above 9? If they had left us a deficit, as was their obligation, of 6, Spain would now have a public deficit below 3%. [[Applauds]] How can you reproach me? How can you tell me, after that statement, to ask for a relaxation of the deficit when I was given one long before France and Italy, because I - I did not, Spain - had to meet 4.4 in 2012 and was allowed to be 6.8? How can you ask for flexibility after you said you wanted to load Article 135? Frankly, you have no authority to talk about this. I understand that you have to mess with me, but look for a subject in which you can have better arguments. [[Rumors]] It's the same as when he talks about 37,000 million euros less income for self-government. If you have lowered your collection as a result of your management by 70,000. Where were we going to get him? And the rest, less spending on the state. How can you talk about this? Or how can you talk about social security? In the last legislature, which was the one that led us to where it brought us, you lose 2,300,000 members of Social Security and now we, which in the last year we have managed to have five hundred thousand more members, blame us? What are you blaming us for? How can you make such statements? [[Applauds]] Precarity. 76% of employees today have an indefinite contract in Spain, which is more than when we arrived at the government in 2011. How can you make me that kind of reproach, please? [[Rumors]] Make me others, but there, simply, you're not right and, frankly, you don't look very good, and I don't go into more details anymore. Mr. Coscubiela tells me again about renewables. I believe that I have already given some evidence of what I have said, and this government is in favour of renewable energy. What you're in favour of is paying a 20 or 25 profit. I don't understand why there are so many people who are in favour of paying 20 or 25 returns, I don't understand it, especially because the alternative to that and the tariff deficit was a 42 % light rise. Well, now you can turn the light down. I, of course, am not prepared to turn the light on Spanish taxpayers by 42 %. He also talked about employment, and I have nothing to add. I agree with what you said about the free trade agreement with the United States. I will propitiate a debate here. With regard to Mr Gorriaran's speech, we will probably have to make a greater effort on the subject of Greece and, above all, on the subject of Tunisia. In Greece the effort has to be made by the European Union, but it is also appropriate for the Greek Government to make some effort, because the initial approaches were truly remarkable: since the markets do not lend me, it lends me Europe, I do not pay it and I have no economic conditioning. That is what I intend to do, too, and I suppose all the members of this House. You're right about that. As far as the sector is concerned, I would like to make a few comments on the banking aspect - I will send you a report -. If you saw the money spent on the sanitation of financial institutions countries such as the United Kingdom, Germany or others of the European Union in 2008, which was the strong one, you would be really surprised, because in some cases you were over 200 billion euros. In Spain, at that time we did nothing because - you will remember - we had the best financial system in the world, although then it seemed that it was not. In the last part, it began to give FROB money to make SIPs, cold, hot mergers, but it caused much greater chaos, which naturally paid the taxpayer. In a situation like that what we did was, in three years, change one financial system to another at this time, which has already passed the stress tests. We could have let some financial institutions break down, but I don't think it was the best solution, by the people working on them, by the depositors' deposits, by the fund holders and by the creditors. Frankly, in a situation of enormous difficulty today, SMEs and individuals have already been able to see how credit begins to increase, which during 2012 and 2013 was a serious problem, as you know, for our economy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u66	Questions addressed to the Government. We begin with the questions addressed to the President. Firstly, she asked Mrs Rosa Díez, Member of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u67	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, undocumented immigrants, as a result of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012, were left without health care. It was this royal decree that turned patients into clients and transformed the universality of the health system into insurance for those who could afford it. For my group, the protection of fundamental rights, of human rights, has always been above and beyond the roles that these human beings have or cease to have. That is why I ask you today, Mr Rajoy: What reasons does your Government have for changing a health policy that drove those who could not pay for it out of the system and, as I say, made universalization a mere guarantee for those who could pay for it? What has led you to change your position and to recognize that human beings cannot be left behind, whether they have papers or not?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u68	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u69	Thank you very much. I would like to make the following considerations. In Spain, for the first time, all Spaniards and foreigners legally residing have the right to health care; I insist, for the first time. [[Laughter]] It was the Government that in 2012 had extended health coverage to people who did not have it, who were many liberal professionals, and it had also guaranteed health care to people without work who had exhausted the unemployment benefit or benefit, because it was a colossal nonsense that they did not have such assistance. In fact, there are 800,000 more people with a health card in Spain today than there were in 2012. As for people who are in an irregular situation, the coverage in Spain is higher than in any country in Europe. Children under the age of eighteen have the same rights as Spaniards; women have care for pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum; emergencies are entitled to all and public health contingencies as well. What happened? That many people went to emergencies for some matters that did not have to do with them properly and in many autonomous communities they attend to them in primary care centres; we want it to work in the same way everywhere, just as it does with the health card. For this there will be a meeting - I suppose in the near future - between the Minister of Health and those responsible for health in the different autonomous communities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u71	Mr Rajoy, if that was true, that everything had been done well and that no one had been left without health protection, I do not know why the Minister of Health has rectified or said to rectify that political decision for reasons of public health; said the Minister of Health. If what you said was true, you would not have to rectify the public health policy on the grounds that it is an emergency problem, because the emergencies are saturated and to be more practical. I do not know what it means to be more practical; of course, you cannot say that because emergencies are saturated, because they have been saturated for a long time by a design of the primary health care system, of the primary sector, of the initial sector, and not of how emergencies work. Mr Rajoy, you have made a health policy that has driven hundreds of thousands of people who needed it out of the system. They have done so to save money, but they have neither saved money nor introduced any reform or improvement in the public system. What have they done? To throw out of the system those who need it and put at risk the public health system and public health of all Spaniards, because people who go down the street without papers and carry infectious viruses do not ask those who go next to them whether they have papers or not. You have created a serious public health problem and have also abandoned people who need it the most. Don't tell them to rectify for emergencies now. They rectify because they've done it wrong. By the way, tell me how you're going to rectify it, because the minister said he's not going to give you a card. How are they going to do it then? How are they going to do it and when are they going to do it?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u72	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u73	I disagree with your assertions. I'll explain what we've done. Firstly, as I have explained before, all Spanish and all foreigners legally resident in Spain are entitled to health care, today it is fully universal; secondly, to pay the EUR 16 billion due from health bills; thirdly, to control pharmaceutical expenditure and to ensure that those unemployed without benefits do not have to pay for medicines; fourthly, to ensure that suppliers, who paid at 525 days, cover within a reasonable period of time. Today we have a common health card. This has all been achieved. We have done away with health tourism, because it was the Court of Auditors itself that told us that there was expenditure of more than EUR 1 billion per year as a result of health tourism. We were paying for operations of people who lived outside, registered here, had their insurance and had to pay them; even people who operated in their country had to pay them. We've done all that here. Now what we do is that people who are treated in emergencies will be cared for in primary care. Therefore, we have placed order in a system that was going through enormous difficulties and we have made universal health for all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF CAYO LARA MOYA, OF THE Parliamentary GROUP OF IU, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, WHICH FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT MEASURES ARE YOU THINKING TO ADOPTE THE CITIZEN REINDICATIONS OF PAN, TECHO AND WORK? [[File number 180/001249]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u75	Question also addressed to the President of the Government, Mr Cayo Lara, from the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u76	Mr Rajoy, what steps does your Government intend to take following the demands of bread, roof and work of the marches for dignity?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u77	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have seen the recommendations of the so-called marches of dignity, I have also seen the political parties that support them. I do not agree with many of your demands, such as the exit from NATO, the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution, the opposition to the free trade agreement, the right to decide or the abolition of labour reform. Now, in economic affairs I can agree, because the economic policy that we have tried to carry out this legislature has one objective: to overcome the crisis, to grow and to create jobs. Fortunately, in this country we are already achieving results. Therefore, as I believe that employment is the best instrument for generating wealth and well-being, as well as for maintaining and improving public services, there would be agreement on the objectives at that point, although I fear that the instruments we would put in place would be different. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Lara.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u80	In addition to what you said, Mr Rajoy, marches required four important elements: bread, roof, work and dignity. Poverty, social exclusion and evictions have increased and unemployment remains unbearable. There are almost 13 million people on the poverty line, 5 million are in severe poverty; there are more than 180 executions of evictions per day; 3 million unemployed are without benefits or aid; there are almost 6 million workers who are below the inter-professional minimum wage, i.e. below €648. There are millions of people who are being trampled on by dignity one day yes and another too. The other day, in an act I had in Paterna, a woman gave me a handwritten note to read here today. The note says: I would like to know - that Mr Rajoy tells me - where my dignity is, as he says that the Spaniards live a dignified life. Where's my dignity, Mr. Rajoy? This woman is called Rosalía Gens Aguayo and is one of the 5 million people in Spain who are in severe poverty. That is why, Mr Rajoy, on your behalf I demand an urgent plan to combat poverty and social exclusion. On behalf of all those who cannot pay a mortgage and evict them from their homes the usurer bank, I ask you to withdraw the appeal to the Constitutional Court on the law promoted by the United Left in Andalusia that guaranteed the right to housing and bring here a similar law. On behalf of the unemployed, without benefits or assistance, I ask for a plan to combat unemployment; on behalf of all workers who are on contracts and wages, I demand that you increase the interprofessional minimum wage to 1,100 euros in three years. Mr Rajoy, put yourself once in your life in the skin of these people: of the people who drive out of your house, of those who are unemployed without help, of those who work long days for a wage of misery or of those who have to go to a social dining room. Put yourself on those people's skin and rule for them. Remembering Galeano, imagine that all these people are a bank, surely they would have saved them by now. Thank you, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u81	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u82	I will only ask you one thing, Mr Lara, to make your judgments of value with a little more balance. Spain is not the country you have just described now. Spain has experienced a very serious economic crisis. He's been on the verge of rescue, on the verge of bankruptcy. We have had a phase of recession, of negative economic growth, many jobs have been lost, there has been budgetary adjustment; but, fortunately, things have changed. The first thing that has changed is that Spain has escaped the rescue, because that would have been a serious problem for our country, as it has been - and this whole House knows it - for many other countries of the European Union. Moreover, we have been able to keep all the pillars of the welfare state in an extremely difficult situation. We have a public health like no one has; we have a public pension system like they have very few; education system, social services. The best thing is that jobs are now being created in our country. Last year 440,000 Spaniards found a job and this year it will be more than half a million. If we persevere in economic policy we will be able to have 20 million people working in our country in four years, which has to be the big target for the next few years. We already know that there are people who have difficulties, of course we do; that is why we have made decisions. We have already been able to start making tax cuts, there are more scholarships; as I said before, there are 800,000 more Spaniards with health cards; we have supported a plan against child poverty; we have created a social housing fund. There is no doubt that much remains to be done, but this country has made a leap forward in recent very important years and Spanish society has been able to overcome one of the most serious economic crises we have experienced in many years. Of course, speeches like yours do not help at all because Spain, fortunately, is not that country that you say, Mr Lara. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED PEDRO SÁNCHEZ PEREZ-CASTEJON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF HIS EDUCATIONAL POLICY? [[File number 180/001252]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u83	Question to the President of the Government by Mr Pedro Sánchez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rajoy, all I ask is that you tell the truth, that you don't lack the truth. [[Rumors]] It is not true that you have maintained the welfare state; you have made an adjustment against the welfare state. The test is the cuts that are suffering from public health as well as public education. So I'd like to know what balance you make of your educational policy, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u85	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u86	The biggest cut to the welfare state in the modern history of Spain was in the 2008-2011 legislature, when its political management led to 3,400,000 Spaniards being unemployed and when the state lost 70 billion euros in collection. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds.- A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.- Rumours]] The Government's economic policy has had the following objectives: that young people should not leave school, that their training should be of higher quality and that they could more easily obtain work in the future. I believe that over these three years we have made progress on these three objectives. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u88	Of course, Mr Rajoy, that is why we have a 51% youth unemployment rate and seven out of every ten contracts young people have are in precarious employment. [[Rumors]] Please, Mr. Rajoy, those things you say, say them at the rallies but don't say them at the Congress of Deputies, because nobody believes them. Inequality policies start with you when you should start equality policies, which is precisely in school. I have heard you say that education is the greatest guarantee of progress and, at the same time, has cut public investment in education 17 billion euros. I have heard you say that education is investing in the future, and what you have done has been to fire 30,000 public education teachers and increase the ratio of pupils to teachers. I have heard you say, Mr Rajoy, that education is a way of incorporating values into our children and at the same time they have suppressed civic education, subsidized segregated education between boys and girls and also imposed religion on the public education system. Mr Rajoy, you speak of normal human beings, but you impose inhuman resistance tests on both parents and teachers of public education as a result of their cuts. [[Rumors]] Last Monday, Mr Rajoy, I signed a commitment to the educational community, something you have not done in these three and a half years of government, which aims to incorporate and recover public education as a right in our country; law lost as a result of the cuts you are making. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Mr. Wert called me an apostle of equity. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] It is the mania that you have to always incorporate religion into the debate of education. I would say to Mr. Wert, Mr. Rajoy, that more than an apostle I am a defender, like millions of Spaniards, than what we want is a quality public education so that the professional and educational success of our children does not depend on the current account of their parents but on their effort and merit. I am a defender more than what he wants is to regain education as a right and avoid what you are trying from the first minute you arrived in Moncloa, to end precisely equal opportunities and public education. You know what, Mr. Rajoy? They're not gonna make it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u89	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u90	Thank you very much. The reform of the Education Act provides for universal, public and free education, but it also emphasizes some of the things you have forgotten: firstly, to improve the quality of education and, secondly, to improve the chances of finding work in the future of our young people and to set minimum common learning standards throughout Spain. We can present some positive things now, Mr. Sanchez. Early educational abandonment, which in 2011 when we arrived at the government was 26.3%, has fallen to 21.9. This is very important because there are already more young people who have a chance of finding work in the future. In vocational training, in 2011-2012, there were 610,000 students; there are now 793,000 students. This is a very positive fact because it will allow younger people to find work in the future. Dual vocational training, which in 2011-2012 had 4,292 pupils, now has four times more and there are ten times more companies that are working on dual training. The scholarships that in 2011 were 1.1 billion euros, in 2015 are 1.4 billion euros. In the 2013-2014 course we have the largest number of fellows in the history of Spain. The problem you have is the same as you had - I told Mr Pérez Rubalcaba publicly and privately on numerous occasions -: the education laws that have been made in Spain have always been yours. When we passed an education law, it was not allowed to enter into force, because at 48 hours of access to the Government decided to repeal it. They were in their right. [[Rumors]] The problem is that we cannot continue to maintain the same educational system when the world changes, and you have not realized that we have a quality problem, as the PISA report says, of first order. Therefore, their immobilisation, not change, wanting to leave things as more than thirty years ago causes enormous damage to the Spanish youth and the future of education in our country. I'm not willing to consent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO HERNANDO VERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY: DOES THE VICE-President THINK THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS ACTING CORRECTLY IN THE JUDICIAL CASES AFFECTING THE PEOPLE'S PARTICULAR? [[File number 180/001253]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u92	Question to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, by Mr Antonio Hernando, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, I ask you whether you consider that the Government is acting properly in the judicial cases affecting your party, the People's Party. Answer it, but no rodeos. What we want to know, first of all, is why the Ministry of Finance made this document - number 1 - on a report of the Tax Agency - number 2 - dated 16 March and which entered the National Court, physically, on 17 March at 9.30 a.m. [[Shows several documents]] The Tax Agency report says that the People's Party could have committed a fraud of 220.00 euros. Secondly, we want to know why the Ministry of Finance sent this argument to the media that reproduced in their editions of the day 17 textual phrases - documents 3 and 4-. These are two very concrete questions, so answer them without leaving the branches. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u94	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u95	Mr Hernando, at the first of your questions, I will answer you that this Government is cooperating and respecting justice in both the People's Party and the Socialist Party's causes, as well as in other parties in this House. Secondly, Mr Hernando, the reports are transmitted telematically and work with the Administration of Justice when the reports it requests are issued and when the simulations that are claimed are issued. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u97	Madam Vice-President, are you ever going to answer the questions I ask you rigorously? Or are you going to keep slipping the bundle and not face-to-face for your ministers? What has to be made clear to us today is why you made that report, and you have to tell us why you received the report before the National Hearing, because according to the metadata of the document, Hacienda started making it at 19.12 hours and the National Hearing did not arrive until 20 hours, according to the fax we have - Exhibit 6 -, Madam Vice-President. It follows that the Tax Agency sends the ministry the report so that it makes an argument to defend the People's Party. Conclusion: Finance and the Tax Agency are your law firm. The most serious thing is that in the argument they compare the People's Party with Caritas and the Red Cross. Indeed, Caritas and the Red Cross receive donations, legal donations for their food banks, for example. The People's Party received illegal donations and its treasurers opened bank accounts in Switzerland, paid election campaigns, paid you out of pay and paid works in the People's Party. Madam Vice-President, two very specific questions. Aren't you ashamed of these kinds of comparisons, as much as you would have to embarrass Mr. Rat's tax amnesty? Second question: Did you or the President of the Government instruct the Minister of Finance to make this argument by defending the People's Party, or was it his thing? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u98	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Hernando, the problem is that you come to talk about court cases on Wednesdays in Congress while Tuesdays and Thursdays declare yours before the Supreme Court; that is the problem. [[Protests.-Applause.]] The point is that on Wednesdays you come to ask the government for explanations, which you give them for those who are not, when the question people ask is why those who say Tuesdays and Thursdays are still on their bench, Your Honor. You can come perfectly on Wednesdays to make a particular accusation, as you certainly do in the lawsuit you are talking about in which you are a party, and then on Tuesdays and Thursdays it is up to you to be a private defender of those you have accused. That is very little political coherence. If you want us to really and seriously talk about what this Government has done, I will tell you the following. First, it has put more means in place to enable justice to function, more judicial places, more civil servants and more prosecutorial places. [[Protests]] And secondly, Mr Hernando, and I know that you are not going to like this but you are going to listen to it, the Transparency Act has taken it out by this government and this party, you have voted against; the illegal financing, which you claim to be a crime, has done so by this party, your vote against it; that the forgiveness of the parties is prohibited - now that you really like to talk about donations, let's talk about pardons -, credit waivers are not allowed because this government has said so and has opposed its party; the high offices have a tougher governance regime because it has voted it by this government and this party and has opposed its own. Mr Hernando, few lessons of democratic regeneration, because the Spaniards have one thing very clear: neither in democratic regeneration nor in economic recovery Spain nor the Spaniards owe the Socialist Party anything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA SORAYA RODRIGUEZ RAMOS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WILL THE GOVERNMENT CONTINUE WITH HIS PLANS REGARDING THE CIVIL REGISTRATION? [[File number 180/001255]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u101	Question to the Minister for Justice by Mrs Soraya Rodríguez of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I ask you whether you will continue with the plans to reform the Civil Registry, in which you intend to put the Civil Registry in the hands of the Registrars, privatizing a public service and making citizens pay for a service that is so far free. In court it must be said that most Registrars do not want the Civil Registry, but you and I know two at least that yes, your Director General of Records and Mariano Rajoy, the President Registrar. You say there is no privatization because the registrars are public officials. They are half-hearted, the Association of Registrars has already told it, they are not fully integrated into the General Administration of the State and are therefore not subject to a principle of hierarchical dependence or administrative control, they do not charge from the General Budgets of the State but their economic interests are private, from the tariffs paid by citizens; indeed, they also pay the Registrars to their workers, who have nothing to do with the Public Service. You say the Civil Registry is going to remain free, and you lie, and you know it. If you don't finance it from the general state budget, who's going to pay it? The loggers who run it? Oh, my God! This is so absurd that it doesn't hold for a minute. Citizens are going to pay it indirectly, in the back way, in the same way as in their reform, by the way negotiated only with the College of Registrars, they are trying to increase the legal acts that now do not have to be registered, so we do not have to pay tariffs for them, as a neighborhood, notarial powers, so that now citizens have to register them and pay tariffs, indirect tariffs, crossed tariffs, illegal. Citizens are going to pay more to receive less, because they will not be able to access the registers from their villages, they suppress the offices of the municipalities with one office per province, what barbarity! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Rodriguez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u104	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rodríguez, what we are doing, what this government is doing is nothing more or less than trying to implement a law proposed by the Socialist Party Government in 2011 and agreed by this House as a whole to carry out the judicialization of civil registrations, and it certainly makes a lot of sense, because what makes no sense today is that it is the judges who are responsible for a public registry, no matter how much there is to guarantee ownership, guarantees and data protection. And that is precisely what we are working on, in implementing a law passed by this Parliament, in a process of improving a public service that has much to improve, because there are waiting times, very high delay times in some services of the Civil Registry. And what we're doing is talking to the autonomous communities, talking to the unions and we'll be happy to receive some of their proposals, because I haven't heard any proposals yet about how you think the Civil Registry should work. Should the judges keep taking him? And what was Law 20/2011 made for? Should the court clerks take him? Should the city halls take him? We would love to know your proposals and work on them, I assure you that with maximum flexibility, because we are going to work for the Public Civil Registry, free of charge, telematics, and keeping the jobs of the officials currently working on those civil registers of the Administration of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u106	Not the loggers. The mere suspicion that the personal and intimate data of the Spaniards are being privatized by the Presidency of the Government with the sole aim of increasing the turnover of a profession to which it belongs, such as the President of the Government, and to which it can be returned is extremely serious. He looks at the heart of democracy, at the rule of law and shows how far you are able to go in the use and abuse of power. [[Applauds]] And then his partner Floriano says they lack skin. No, what they're missing is shame. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u107	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u108	Thank you, President. Mrs Rodríguez, I insist, I will be delighted to hear for the first time and understand - because I think this is the third time that I have appeared in this House to talk about this matter in addition to having appeared a couple of times in the Senate - what is the Socialist Party's proposal on civil registrations. We will be delighted to receive that proposal. I do not know what happens to you with some public officials, as in this case the Registrars. They are public officials under the Ministry of Justice, who are under the supervision of the Ministry and, therefore, this is an option. I'm willing to talk about other options, totally willing and I'd like to know what yours are. Having a public civil registry, free of charge, of quality, at the service of the citizen, telematics in the year 2015 seems to me to be a good proposal on which to work. For the time being, it seems that all you want is to deny the possibility that anyone in Spain today who is dedicated to managing databases, such as property records or business records, can do another function. We think it's one of the possibilities. Let us talk, propose alternatives that we will study them carefully, always with the commitment - and please do not intoxicate the debate - of a public register and free of charge for all citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u109	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: IS THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS WHO DOES EVERYTHING POSSIBLE TO AVOID THE CONSUSION BETWEEN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INTERESTS? [[File number 180/001256]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u110	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Pedro Saura of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you think you are working properly to avoid confusion between the public and private interests? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u112	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Saura, the answer is very obvious: yes. The task and responsibility of a Government in all its fields and especially in the economic sphere is precisely to avoid any confusion as you formulate, but any collision between private and public interests. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u114	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, it is two and a half in the afternoon and at this point, Mr Minister, you have not yet resigned. [[Laughter]] This morning, in fact, you should have come here to Congress at one thing, to deliver a letter, your letter of resignation to the President of the Government, who was here this morning. That's what you should have done this morning exclusively. Because he has made so many shameful decisions in his ministry that Mr. Rat's confession that he has taken up the tax amnesty is the height of shame. That person who has been the Minister of Economy and Finance, his head, has been the economic vice president of the Government and also his teacher. That confirms the Socialist Party's thesis over the past three years: that you approved the tax amnesty to favour friends and leaders of the People's Party. That's what you did. [[Applauds]] That's why he approved the tax amnesty. That's what we told him three years ago and it's confirmed. Mr. Montoro, what we want is to know the whole list of those who took over the tax amnesty, the whole list, whoever falls. So far it looks more like the wedding list, you know what wedding, you understand me perfectly. [[Laughter]] So, what we're asking you to do is drop whoever falls, the whole list. What we ask you, Minister, is that today - as they do not cease - you resign because there has not been a finance minister in the history of Spain who has done so much damage to the rule of law, democracy, fiscal conscience and the fight against fraud. You have been a real Attila for the Spanish Public Treasury. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u116	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Saura, I think the morning has been very well summarized, as Mr Sánchez has done, you have imitated him very well. The secretary general of the Socialist Party has a goal, which is the resignation of this humble public servant, minister of Finance and Public Administrations, and which is certainly one of the longest-running of democracy and the history of the Spanish Public Treasury. [[Laughter]] And, Mr Saura, does that have to do with economic recovery in Spain, as Mr Sánchez has acknowledged? Does that have to do with Spain creating jobs at the head of the European Union? [[Rumors]] Does this have to do with reducing the public deficit by preserving the welfare state by 27.5 % of gross domestic product? Does that have to do with the amount of resources declared abroad, more than 100 billion euros in three years - more than 100 billion euros, I repeat the figure - actually an impressive figure corresponding to 140,000 taxpayers? That had never happened in the history of the Spanish Treasury, and that is the fight against fraud. Behind this is a clarification of positions that should have been clarified earlier, but ask yourself why they were not and are not with this Government. With this government the institutions are working and are doing so with a rigour and with a contrasting efficiency in numbers, but you are not interested or interested in the debate on figures; you, with the previous spokesman, with the current speaker and with whom he is coming, and with Mr Sánchez at the head, what you want is for me to withdraw. [[Rumors]] Don't worry, I'll retire one day, but you're getting into the same obsession as Mr. Zapatero, who every time I went up to the rostrum referred to my modest person. [[Rumors]] Well, for one thing it will be, but the important thing is that Spain is in economic recovery and job creation. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u118	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN GONZALEZ CABAÑA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT REASONS HAVE THE GOVERNMENT TAKEN TO THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION THE PROJECT "NEW TERMINAL OF CADIZ CONTAINERS"? File number 180/001260).
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u119	Question also addressed to Mr Francisco González Cabaña, Minister for Finance and Public Administration of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, given your Numtino spirit and your resistance to resignation, please explain to me the reasons that have led the Government to withdraw the New Container Terminal project from Cadiz before the European Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u121	Thank you, Mr. González Cabaña. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr López, no Numtino spirit, I am fulfilling my duty, I have done so both when I have been in the opposition and when I am in the government. Therefore, no numtino spirit, simply consistent with the function one performs. With regard to the question raised, I have to inform you that the project for the New Container Terminal in Cadiz is continuing and the Government is going to keep the request for aid for its financing before the European Union. We consider it a fundamental project for the economic development of the Bay of Cadiz and no one at any time has questioned the continuity of it. What the Government has done in recent weeks is to try to speed up the grant of the €60 million aid with which the project will be subsidized through the Feder funds. Since this project exceeds EUR 50 million in total cost, it requires the express approval of the European Commission, which during the investigation phase has made several requests for information to Spain that have been duly addressed. The Commission recently asked Spain for further updated information to be included in the application for co-financing. In the view of the Community authorities, the presentation of the new version of the project with this additional information requires a new KIC number for its processing. They therefore called for the temporary withdrawal of the application only in order to replace it with a new one. Therefore, this is a purely technical requirement, we could say that bureaucratic, which does not affect the present or the future of the project at all. The Spanish administration considers that this procedure is not really necessary, but we do not try to enter into a debate with the European Commission on the procedure, we comply with its requirements and we have therefore chosen the method of speeding up the deadlines and that the European Commission can approve the aid as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. González Cabaña.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u124	Minister, I am not Mr López but Mr González, do not let him lose my identity too. I would first like to point out our rejection of the opacity that has presided over the temporary withdrawal of this project by the Spanish authorities and their Government. The Harbour Authority of Cadiz knew this decision through the media through a press conference, in Seville, of the commissariat Corina Cretu. Neither his ministry nor that of Promotion through Ports of the State communicated this unfortunate fact of delay and withdrawal to the Harbour Authority. As you well know, 2011 is the year in which the work is awarded. Ports of the State increases the aid of the Regional Development Fund up to 60 million euros, which is the final allocation. Two circumstances, alien to both the Harbour Authority, cause the release of funds for three Spanish ports to be delayed. In two of them it has been resolved: they were not Andalusian. The one in Cadiz has not been resolved: it was an Andalusian port. Without a doubt, in the case of the port of Cadiz, the decision to withdraw from the project clearly demonstrates the lack of dialogue and the limited capacity of its Government to influence or neglect, the Government of Spain, before Europe when defending an Andalusian project is concerned. The decision, Minister, is an extemporaneous decision, you know that 90% of the work has already been executed and that the tunnel of access to the terminal is being executed. It is also a missile in the flotation line of the most intense propagandistic project of the People's Party in recent times in the province of Cadiz, which is nothing other than that of the logistic platform of the South. You're going to sink it. But, with all this, we do not know what is more worrying, whether the temporary withdrawal of the project or the affirmation of the deputy mayor of Cadiz, Mrs Martínez, who a few days later said in the provincial press: If Brussels fails, the money puts it Rajoy. There's that! Take note, Mr. Montoro. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well! Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u125	Thank you, Mr. González Cabaña. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your honor is right, the services I have are very good, but they have confused me with my last name, Mr Gonzalez. I have explained to him that this is a purely bureaucratic approach, that we have chosen that path so that it is more operational, faster and can be resolved. If his lordship had listened to me, he would not have made the political speech because what has happened is a will of the Spanish government for Cadiz because actually Cadiz has an absolutely unacceptable unemployment rate...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u127	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT INFORMATION CAN FACILITATE THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR, AFTER HIS MANAGEMENT WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF MARRUECOS, ON THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE RECORD OF THE SPAINAL SPECIES ACCIDENTED IN THAT COUNTRY? [[File number 180/001254]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u128	Question to the Minister for the Interior, by Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, two of the three Andalucian speleologists in the Uandras River Canyon, south of Morocco, died seven days after the accident and four days after waiting for a rescue. During this agonistic period, the Andalusian Federation of Speleology immediately arranged a group of experts for the rescue. The Spanish Government had a plane with experts from the Civil Guard and the National Police. However, the Moroccan Government did not authorize the entry of the troops until Sunday, six days after the accident, reaching the area at six in the afternoon. A few hours after this, the second speleologist died after a disastrous rescue attempt. The Spanish agents were barely able to collaborate with the Moroccan gendarmes in the rescue of the third speleologist, who fortunately survived hard. Minister, what has happened is very serious and we want answers. The first, why it took so long to rescue the speleologists. The second, if you could have saved the life of the second mountaineer if you had arranged the necessary equipment and material, as all experts say. Thirdly, what justification did Morocco give for not accepting Spanish aid. And both you and the foreign official have pointed out that there have been dysfunctions in this tragedy, even when Spanish aid arrived it was already late. However, the President of the Government had praised the Moroccan Government's efforts in that regard. What are we left with? Were there any dysfunctions, yes or no? Who was responsible for those dysfunctions? Clarify it because this unfortunate experience or that suffered another Spanish speleologist in Peru - where the government did not get involved in the rescue - makes us reflect on the need for a protocol to be able to act in these situations. We can no longer do anything to avoid the painful loss of Gustavo Virués and José Antonio Martínez, to whose families I want to convey my deepest condolences on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but in his memory, his family has the right to clarify his doubts. Minister, the patriotism of the room which the government so presumes must be demonstrated on the ground, here and in Morocco. That is why I ask you, Minister, whether the Government has done everything possible, everything in its power to save the lives of our compatriots. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u130	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. I begin by saying that yesterday afternoon I answered this same question to the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Senate. You will understand that there can be no variations because there have not been since yesterday afternoon until today, but I will reiterate the answer because I also understand that an event of these characteristics deserves to be treated at the headquarters of national sovereignty and popular representation, as is the Congress of Deputies. But obviously I will not contradict myself in relation to what I said yesterday and what has been said since we have known the tragic outcome of that accident that occurred in the Moroccan Atlas. The honourable Member, from the outset, at 3.30 p.m. on Wednesday 30 March, when the first information was received about what had happened - that information was received at the Spanish consulate in Casablanca and came from the mountaineers accompanying the three who suffered the accident - we have been in constant contact day and night - and it is literal, not rhetorical expression - with the Moroccan authorities. Everything that was in our hands has been done to try to ensure that the rescue, complex and difficult as has been shown, of those injured people could bear fruit. But I am sure that you will understand and fully understand that Morocco is a sovereign State and that our offer of help and collaboration for that rescue had to be accepted by them. I have the firm conviction - because we talked with them repeatedly - that Morocco acted with just intention and with good faith since the conviction that they could carry out such a rescue by their own means. Unfortunately, we were able to check on Sunday, April 5, that it was not. At the time when we were authorized, we were asked for the technical and human resources that we had made available from the very first moment, they moved there and the four troops of GREM, the Rescue and Intervention Group in the Mountain of the Civil Guard. They were working twenty-six hours uninterruptedly, without rest, in very difficult circumstances, risking their lives and finally rescuing the bodies - as you know - already deceased unfortunately of the lords Virues and Martínez. I have been in contact with their families during those tragic days, before their deaths were known and after. Finally, I will tell you that his majesty the King and the President of the Government were, of course, interested and permanently informed of the developments and that there is an open judicial procedure in Morocco in which Juan Bolivar, the Spanish citizen national police... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u132	Thank you, Minister. [[The lady]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA GONZALEZ VERACRUZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF FOOD JUSTIFY THE ENJOYMENT OF THE CONVENTION PRESENTING TO SUPPORT THE TREATMENT OF AWAKE! BY THE CITY OF MURCIA? [[File number 180/001257]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u133	Questions to the Minister for Development. First of all, Mrs Veracruz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, how does the failure to comply with the 2006 agreement for the burial of the AVE in its passage through the city of Murcia justify? The facts show that his political will and that of the People's Party is null and void with the burial that the Bats demand, but also with the arrival of the AVE. We've known the new delay. What's the excuse now? Please, minister, tell me exactly how and especially when the AVE will arrive in the city of Murcia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u135	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister of Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Ministry of Development is working and doing all possible actions to ensure that high speed reaches Murcia as soon as possible. To this end, Your Honor, we have now allocated EUR 750 million to the railways in the Autonomous Community of Murcia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u137	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u138	Madam Minister, the case of Murcia with the AVE and the burial is quite a misconception and I think you know it well. They have given no interest to our land in these years; they have spent all this time without agreeing between you and this has seriously harmed the bats. I am talking about changes in criteria, contradictions between the different governments, all of them from the PP, constant delays in the works and even inconsistencies, such as saying that there will be expropriations but that this is provisional. In short, we have taken away from them at the stroke of manifest commitments that have proved to be false. And I say to him, stop deceiving the bats. My land deserves the AVE to arrive but also to recover the wound that divides the city, which breaks the city into two. The AVE did, of course, have to be already in the region, but buried. I speak to him not as a representative but trying to bring the voice of thousands of bats that we have expressed for this just claim, but also for those bats that every Tuesday go to the streets to claim a struggle that, as I say, I believe is of justice to our city, the seventh in Spain. The AVE was possible in 2014 and buried in our city and only the People's Party and Rajoy's government have broken this commitment to our land. In short, after all this history, the three absolute majorities of the People's Party, in the city hall, in the autonomous community and in the Rajoy government, have been very damaging to the interests of the Batians. I honestly think they've made history, but it's bad. Minister, how do you explain to Murcia, almost 500,000 Bats, that after so many years this claim will not be fulfilled? What's going to happen to the Mediterranean Corridor, he's going to Murcia? Where will it go, a few meters away from the houses of the bats? In short, we want to know when the AVE will reach our land, because you said that in this legislature and the Councillor of Fomento said that we could take the grapes in AVE, but we already know that nothing more than with the bids to Callosa del Segura it is impossible to fulfill his word... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u139	Thank you, honourable Member. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. First of all, welcome, Your Honor, to be interested in the AVE after three and a half years. For all citizens to know, especially the Batians, in case anyone doesn't know, you socialists did what they did to say that there was an impressive project for integration in Murcia worth 195 million euros, but the budget allocation was zero. I am not surprised that you are going to many demonstrations because you will have to explain to the batons the power point - you know - of what was the integration proposed by the Socialist Party in Murcia, because there was no money. But not only that, Your Honor, is this government working; I told you before, there are more than EUR 750 million invested in the Community of Murcia on the railway and that is to get the railway to Murcia as soon as possible this year. I will tell you more, Your Honor, if there is no technical problem, there is an appropriate budget for it to arrive this year. Integration is assured; as for the execution of the accesses to Murcia, as you know, we have bid in October the work of the connection of the capital of Murcia to the high-speed network. [[Mr. Campos Arteseros: Because there wasn't one!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u141	Wait a minute, Minister. Mr. Campos! I went on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u142	At the end of the last month of March we tendered the works of replacement of the road of Tiñosa and the suppression of the passage at the level of Senda de los Garres, which had not foreseen it. As for the development of the underground, on 13 March we awarded the global project of integral underground and the first phase that we are going to carry out is the first phase of this integral underground and that will then include the new intermodal station of Carmen, the underground of the core of Nondovermas or the depression in the round of Barriomar and Nondovermas. Your Honor, there are many things that can be said in this House, but what is not to be missed is the truth. I have been going through that line and I went when there was nothing, no infrastructure or superstructure, and today all that line is under construction because Mr Rajoy's government has earmarked for Murcia 750 million euros. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u143	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMAN READING SANTIAGO Iglesias, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT IS THE PROVISION FOR THE AVE TO COME THE EXTREMADURA? [[File number 180/001258]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u144	Question by Mrs Iglesias Santiago, also by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u145	Madam Pastor, is there any forecast that the AVE will ever reach Extremadura?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Iglesias. Minister of Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, Your Honor. The Government is working at a very intense pace. The arrival of high speed in Extremadura is a priority for us, and the result of the improvements we are already making at this time is that more and more extremist citizens and citizens visiting Extremadura choose the train; about 650,000 travellers have used it in the connection of Madrid with Extremadura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u148	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u149	Mrs. Pastor, I suppose you'll know this document. It is the Ministry of Industry's electrical transport network development plan, its energy plan until 2020. Thanks to this document we have known how the Madrid-Badajoz line, contemplated in the previous planning and the four transformation substations that would bring enough energy to circulate the AVE, has disappeared. [[Show it.]] And he does it in Extremadura; he doesn't do it in the rest of the autonomous communities; what a coincidence. Madam Pastor, you're used to the control session to the one and you more, but I'm afraid that, as far as communications are concerned, the extremists tell us: for you less. For almost four years he has blamed absolutely everything - today he has done it again - on the inheritance received and, in this case, the inheritance, his, will be to return Extremadura to ostracism and the exclusion of other times. He has hardly visited our territory; he has found no reason or perhaps he has found no means of communication to do so. In 2012 you promised to shorten the arrival times on the line from Madrid to Extremadura and today it takes Badajoz, on the route Madrid-Badajoz - at the price of AVE, by the way, but at the speed of diligence - half an hour more than before; six hours, when to make the same tour to Zaragoza it takes an hour and twenty minutes. It takes the same thing from Madrid to Moscow to arrive in Merida by train and, if I had come this morning by train, I would not even have arrived at the control session, but we are not even talking about this, Minister: it is possible that we would have made some delay in the works, but what you have decided, with the complicity of Mr Monago, is that the extremists do not have the right to the AVE; they take it away from us; neither stations nor width of track nor electrification, why? How can a community have equal opportunities and not be excluded under these conditions? How do you plan to get high speed to Extremadura without electricity? You are accustomed to deception, but you will be responsible for condemning Extremadura to be an island. Speaking of islands, perhaps Mr.Monago is more interested in the connection of the AVE to the Canary Islands than that of the AVE to Extremadura. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u150	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister of Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the government that President Rajoy has devoted to high speed in Extremadura, at this time we have in the government, a very important part of the 1.4 billion we have allocated to his community: it is 915 million euros, 915 million euros. You must repair the misery that the Zapatero government has destabilized. [[Mrs. Iglesias Santiago continues to show the document]] There is nothing better than the hemerotheque to know what you should feel today when you ask this question : Fomento announces the bidding of most of the outstanding works of the AVE Extremadura-Castilla-La Mancha. [[Shows a press clipping]] They were able to send the Bulletin of European Courts 2 billion bids that never saw the light. Secondly, the spokesman for the Socialist Group at the time stressed in 2007 that the AVE extremeño, Your Honor, would operate in 2010. [[Show another press clipping]] I don't know where you were, Your Honor, but you must have courage. Third, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero presents a plan for Extremadura in order to achieve balanced development in Spain - August 2004 - with the promise that the AVE would arrive a few years later. [[Show another press clipping]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, that government, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's, was eight years. - No, no, no, By the way, this minister who speaks to you has walked hand in hand the way of the train; surely it was not necessary, but I like to be in the places, I like to go to the places and I like to go to see things on the ground -. [[Mrs. Iglesias Santiago utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u152	Wait a minute, Minister. Mrs Iglesias, we have listened to you very carefully. I urge Members, whether they like it or not, to pay attention. [[Rumors]] Mrs. Iglesias, it's time for the minister. You have had it and used it as you considered it appropriate. Please let the minister speak with the same respect with which we have listened to you. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u153	Right now, Your Honor, as you know, all works are under way. You have the defachability of asking an explanation from a minister who has allocated more than 700 million to a line, when you in eight years did not execute even 8% of that line. We have implemented and implemented infrastructure across the line, we have applied for Feder funds for 300 million, and we are working to ensure that Extremadura has what it deserves. We're working on every stretch, Your Honor. And I will tell you one thing: this project was initiated by a people's government and will be completed by a people's government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u154	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GONZALEZ ELORZA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT JUSTIFY THE ANNOUNCEMENT ON THE INCREASE OF 50 % OF THE DURATION OF HIGH-VELOCITY TRAIN TREATMENTS BETWEEN VACH CAPITALS USING THE NEW TREATMENT OF THE AND VASCA, AMENDING THE INITIAL PREVISIONS? [[File number: 180/001259]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u155	He also asked Mrs de Fomento about Mr Elorza González from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u156	Madam Minister, on 23 February, the citizens of the Basque Country learned that in the course of the high-speed journey, when the Basque Y is over, the time to communicate the capitals will increase by 50%. To this day you have given no reason in the ministry. What are they?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u157	Thank you, Mr. Elorza. Minister of Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, Mr Elorza. The Government will continue to work to ensure that the times, with the launch of the Basque Y, are the least possible, guaranteeing the highest quality and the highest safety.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u159	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u160	Great. That the train Vitoria-San Sebastián passes, according to its information - it did not explain the reasons - from thirty-four to fifty-five minutes will obey something. This shows that you operate permanently with a lot of improvisation, no planning, no forecasts, no rigor. What is the reason why you are awarding liquidation works in order to fulfil false electoral commitments, by awarding works with reckless losses of 50%? This is the case for those in the Kobate sector, those in the Bergara knot and those in the Angiozar sector, or those that will fall in Atxondo, with 50 or 51% reductions for works of thirty-five or forty months, engineering works, that is, the stoppage of these works. Why have you stopped, after three years, with the deadline already expired, the Astigarraga-San Sebastián section, a work which had, in its three years of mandate, only 18% of execution? Why have you been 20 months behind in the placement of the naughtys of the renewal of Adif Irun-San Sebastián? It's 20 months late. You do not yet have defined access to capitals, you do not have defined station reforms or connections to the Basque Y with Vitoria-Burgos and Pamplona-Mediterranean; you do not have a completion forecast. It is false that all this will end in 2019, as you said in February, when the previous year you were saying that the works would end in 2022. It's all a big electoral lie. Don't resist. In the case of Guipúzcoa - I have proved it - it is not possible for the works to end, because you do not manage, because you have Adif collapsed, because you award the works with more than 50% off, and that is impossible to manage. Change the specifications of the tender terms of the works, because the next Government is going to meet with a lot of works paralyzed by pending negotiations between the contractors and the Government. You have rigor, you have capacity. Give you answers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u161	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Your time's up. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, Your Honor. I take the floor to respond to everything you have put forward; first of all, to the times. This is a topic that has to do, as you know, with the phases in which a line is set in motion. Between Vitoria and Bilbao it now takes one hour and forty-five minutes; with the progressive completion of all the works and with the full entry into operation of all the installations, it will be twenty-eight minutes. Between Vitoria and San Sebastián it is now an hour and thirty minutes; it will take forty minutes. Between Bilbao and San Sebastián it is now two hours and thirty minutes and we will reduce the final travel time to forty-five minutes. To you it must seem little, because you must live in another world, in that wonderful world in which you lived in 2006, when I said, I open quotes: «TAP is achieved». What a clinical eye, Mr. Elorza. Good thing it was achieved, because not one euro had been invested. You belong and belong to the Socialist Group and you should be ashamed to tell me about breaks in the auctions. I came to a ministry in which there were no casualties; what had been modified; up to 1,500 modified works I found myself. [[A Member of the European Parliament: It is not true]] Today I can assure you that this is controlled. [[Mr. Elorza González: No]] Are you going to give me lessons from what it is to manage rigorously when the socialist government left more than 5 billion in bills?, will you give me lessons when today all the work of the Basque Y, up to the Bergara knot, is hired?, will you give me lessons when I am sitting with all the Basque institutions and we have closed the arrival to the Basque capitals?, will you give me lessons when you don't tell anyone - that is why you are so angry - and you come here to hear it? [[Mr Elorza González speaks words that are not perceived]] Talk to the institutions because maybe they'll give you a little attention. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u163	Thank you, Minister. - THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA OLAIA FERNÁNDEZ DAVILA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHAT EMERGENCY MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE AGRO-GANADERO GALLEGO SECTOR IS GOING TO ADOPTION THE GOVERNMENT BY THE SERIOUS PROBLEMS OF THE PRECIOUS BASICS OF MILK, INCLUDED BY THE FINALIZATION OF THE SYSTEM OF LAKES? [[File number 180/001248]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u164	Questions to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Environment. Firstly, the question by Mrs Fernández Davila of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, what urgent measures will the Government take to support the Galician agri-farming sector because of the serious problem of low milk prices, aggravated by the completion of the milk quota system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u167	Thank you very much, President. The Government has been taking measures in favour of the dairy sector for more than three years to ensure its future after the end of the quota regime.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u168	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u169	Madam Minister, low milk prices are an old problem that has taken thousands of farms in Galicia ahead. Of the 40,000 that had been about fifteen years ago, only 9,500 remain, and still produce 60% of the state's milk. But the most serious thing, Minister, is that the problem persists, threatening the closure of many other farms. 70% of Galician farms earn less than the minimum wage. - We're talking about farmers. Although the Ministry's value chain study figures production costs at 34 cents, Galician farmers are selling it at less than 30, 2 cents less than the state average and 6 cents less than other autonomous communities. I suppose, Madam Minister, that you know the attitude of an important part of the industry, which offers farmers only 0.21% for their product, and I suppose that while this is happening the government does nothing, because you have not just answered anything. What the Government has done has been a milk package decree that does not guarantee negotiation between equals and continues to deny the figure of the mediator that the farmers claim; a code of good conduct that is nothing more than a useless instrument, because to begin with it is voluntary adherence. And you continue to strive to defend that it is the market that regulates the price - supply and demand, they say - while still allowing the distribution to use milk as a commercial claim by selling this product below its price. Look, this photograph where the price of milk is announced at 0.29 euros is not a coincidence in shopping malls, especially in large areas; it is a very common thing, Minister. What good is it for you to say that you have three hundred open distribution inspections if you continue to allow milk to be dumped without any problems? What is this government going to do, Minister, with this sector so punished, that it must now suffer the consequences of the elimination of the quota...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u170	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u171	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The last extension of milk quotas was negotiated by a Government of the People's Party in 2003. He was Minister Miguel Arias Cañete. Between 2004 and 2011 there were two reforms in the dairy sector. Spain then did not defend the maintenance of quotas, never. He ruled the Socialist Party, the minister was Galician. There was missed the last chance of extension for this regime, and you know it well. This Government, however, requested it in 2012, knowing that the decision to abolish it was already irreversible. In view of this situation, from the beginning of the legislature we have turned to the dairy sector. More measures have been taken in three years to ensure the future of the sector than in all the previous eight. I'll quote the most important ones, as far as I'm concerned because I know I don't have it to tell you everything that's been done. We have achieved €47 billion of the CAP for farmers and livestock farmers by 2020, more than €1.8 billion for the dairy sector; we have agreed on an implementation model that guarantees the maintenance of aid received by dairy farmers. In addition, milk farmers will receive specific aid from this same year, which will increase by 56%, from EUR 60 million to EUR 94 million per year, thanks to the solidarity we have asked of other producers in other sectors, such as milk, who are more vulnerable. We have improved market regulation measures; the possibility of taking extraordinary measures in the event of serious market disturbances. In addition, we were the first Member States to implement mandatory contracts. In 2012 the dairy package was already approved, taking advantage of all the possibilities offered by the Community regulation. As a result, we have made the contract mandatory, in advance and in writing, and that is a reality in the sector today. We have taken advantage of the experience, because we anticipate, acquired in these two years in order to be able to improve it for the benefit of dairy farmers. A month and a half ago, we adopted a new royal decree that strengthens the position of farmers, with measures that improve the recruitment system and strengthen producer organisations. Tomorrow we will approve at the sectoral conference the national plan of recruitment controls in the dairy sector and it will be the Food Information and Control Agency of the Ministry, which this Government has created, which will be responsible for implementing the sanctioning regime provided for by the law, of a law also promoted by this Government for the benefit of farmers. We have worked and are working to introduce the figure of the mediator, this Government introduced it. We carried out controls to detect sales at loss to prevent milk from being used as a claim product, as no one had ever even tried to do so before. We've reduced... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u172	Thank you, Minister. - OF MR CARLES PÀRAMO I PONSITI, OF THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: IS THE GOVERNMENT SOLUTION PLANNING [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] THE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT TO THE TURIST MUNICIPES CONCERNED BY THE IMPOSEMENT OF ECONOMIC OBLIGATIONS IN THE MANAGEMENT OF BATHROOMS AND BATHROOM AREAS, BY THE COST LAW, IN CONTRAPTION TO THE LOCAL REFORM RECENTLY AVAILABLE? [[File number 180/001247]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u173	Question by Mr Pàramo i Ponsetí, from the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Minister and Mr Montoro, Article 115 of the Costas Act, paragraph (d), requires municipalities to maintain the beaches and bathing places in the proper conditions of cleanliness, hygiene and health, as well as the salvation and safety of human lives. A tax which imposes a particular burden on certain citizens, those who reside in coastal tourist municipalities, who must finance these services with their municipal taxes and to the detriment of the services that their city council should provide. Minister, and I also add, Minister, as if we were in a municipal plenary, more than a question I will ask you several requests: first, that the cost of economic burden on tourist municipalities incurred year after year in the management of the beaches and on the basis of the liquidations from 2010 to 2014 be assessed from your ministry, from your ministries. Secondly, consult the Ministry of Public Administration to determine whether the above-mentioned taxation is for the municipalities affected by their own jurisdiction or not and, in any case, because it is unique, whether the General Budgets of the State should provide financial resources for their exercise to those who bear the expenditure. Third request, agree with the two ministries, with the aim of resolving the conflict without privileges or grievances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u175	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u176	Thank you very much, President. The recent local reform does not introduce changes in the competences of the municipalities, including those relating to the maritime-terrestrial public domain. The cost regulations, for their part, specify these powers, in accordance with the Local Law and without any opposition.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u177	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u178	Article 25 of the Law on Local Regime Basis states that the improper municipal powers exercised must be accompanied by an economic memory, in order to reflect the impact on the financial resources of public administrations. Also, according to the Lrsal, local authorities cannot continue to exercise powers that have not been attributed to them by law, as is the case. It remains to be seen, therefore, what happens to the powers provided for before the entry into force of that law. Madam Minister, as you can see, my intervention does not call into question your management at the head of your ministry, but rather attempts to bring common sense and distributive justice in order to relieve the aggravation suffered by citizens living in coastal tourist municipalities, which, in addition to enduring a shortage of life above the average and paying for oversized servitudes and services, must subsidize a competition of the state, which owns the beaches. If we recognize that the tourism sector is very important to the state economy but we see that this activity is taking place and needs to do so in the municipal framework, it is not fair that they are uniquely its citizens, not the municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u179	Thank you, Mr. Paramo. Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u180	Thank you, Your Honor. The local reform adopted through the Local Government Rationalization and Sustainability Act, which came into force in 2013, has not introduced any new developments in the management of beaches and bathing areas. In the new framework established by this law, the land public-sea domain continues to be protected within the competence of the municipalities, as already established by the Local Law of 1985, and among these powers are many others such as urban planning, management, implementation and discipline, parks and gardens, paving of public roads, preservation of roads and rural roads, local police, civil protection, fire prevention and extinguishment or protection of public health. For its part, the Costas Act of 1988 specifies and complements the competences which, as their own, the municipalities exercise within the maritime-terrestrial public domain and in its adjacent areas, in accordance with the Local Law. The reform of the Coast Law promoted by this Government does not bring about any change in this regard. Thus, article 115 establishes that the municipal jurisdiction is to maintain the beaches and public bathing places in the proper conditions of cleanliness, hygiene and health, as well as to monitor compliance with the rules and instructions on the rescue and safety of human roads. For its part, under the Constitution, the State must ensure the integrity of the public domain, including beaches and bathing areas, and ensure its free and free public use. But the specific competences in the area of the coast that depend on the characteristics of this physical space are specific to the municipalities, that is, they are not exercised by delegation of the State Administration. And, as your honor knows, all competence also requires the provision of means for its exercise. Article 142 of the Constitution establishes the principle of financial sufficiency of local entities. In addition, coastal municipalities have revenues derived from beach management. Your Honor, coastal tourist municipalities continue to count on the full cooperation of the Government for the protection of their beaches and bathing areas. Local reform does not entail any change in the management of these areas, nor does it therefore present any aggravation. In any event, the Government will consider any changes to the autonomous and local funding system that may arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u181	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN'S HOPE WAS ORTEGA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WILL THE GOVERNMENT RECOGNIZE THE UNIVERSALITY OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM? [[File number 180/1261]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u182	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality by Mrs Esteve Ortega of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u183	Thank you, President. Minister, will the Government regain the universality of the National Health System?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u184	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Esteve. The Government already made our National Health System universal in 2012; moreover, for the first time in recognizing the right to health care for all Spaniards and foreigners legally residing in Spain. That is why I like this debate to remember this issue. Health care is universal, thanks to the government of the People's Party that presides Mariano Rajoy and, to the decisions that we made in 2012, to put order in the disorder that you had in the health system.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u186	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u187	Thank you. Minister, what is certain is that the concept of universality is very different as the People's Party sees it or as the Socialist Parliamentary Group sees it. It's clear we don't talk about the same thing. In any case, I do not understand why in Brussels you are asked to explain the health policies that your Government applies to immigrants, and in Spain associations of doctors, human rights, social entities, almost everyone. The parliamentary groups are calling for the universal health that you, from our point of view, have carried out. My group, based on this wonderful decree 16/2012, has systematically denounced its measures to exclude people from the health system, which, as a palliative measure, leads to public emergency services, preventing immigrants from accessing prevention, specialized treatments and drugs, which means increasing attention by using the emergency route and, above all, denying the possibility of being cared for in the different services of the system. We see it differently, it's clear. But here it is that, shortly after the general elections and when playing municipal and autonomous rectifications a little. They don't give them the right, but they're going to take care of them from primary care. That is, without accompanying them with criteria of continuity of care, of hospital care, of tests, treatments, drugs. Do they intend to resolve this, or will they continue to place people in a health limbo, with the individual and collective consequences that this entails? Recognize it, Minister - you may never do it - but we deeply believe that you have been wrong about your reform, bad and expensive. Commit yourselves to universal health, restore law and accessibility and also justice. This is nothing but an opportunism, an opportunism, to which we obviously do not oppose. But if you do not, it is clear that the socialists when we recover the government we will repeal this decree by giving back to the citizens a right that is yours and not yours. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Esteve. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Esteve. Madam President, thank you very much. Some memory should be done because if not the same thing the citizens may not get a full picture of how things have been in Spain, of what has happened. I remind you - let's remember, let's go back a little - when José Antonio Griñán - which is already by chance - was Minister of Health. Then you passed Royal Decree-Law 1/1992 on urgent measures on employment promotion and unemployment protection. In this decree, what they did was to exclude from health care long-term unemployed persons who had exhausted the unemployment benefit. That was done by you and that situation remained unchanged until the year 2012 when this government - it is true that at the request of the People's Party in the Public Health Act - at the last hour of 2011 it recovered it. It has been the Government that has made it possible, through this royal decree that you criticize, for the long-term unemployed to be entitled again and for collectives that had never been entitled to this health card in Spain, such as lawyers or architects, to have it as well and therefore to have universality. The result is that today there are 884,298 more health cards than in 2012. That is universality with figures, with data and with realities. Spain is the country that most generously assists the people who are here in an irregular situation, and we can continue to improve. It is also time when, thanks to the reforms of the Government, we have more scope, and that is why we are taking the step of trying to harmonize the situation throughout the national territory, focusing assistance to foreigners like that of the rest of the population through primary care. I hope that we can achieve this with the Autonomous Communities and that we will work together to improve the universality of health, which is not due to you but rather to the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u190	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u191	We're moving on to the interpellations. Firstly, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to the Minister of Finance and Public Administration, on the development by the Tax Agency of its judicial assistance functions in cases affecting the People's Party. Mr Saura has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is three and a half in the afternoon and the letter of resignation from the Minister has not yet arrived. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this inquiry? First of all, Minister, it is an opportunity for you to answer Mr Hernando's question, the spokesman for the Socialist Group, to the Vice-President, who did not know, wanted or was unable to answer. This question lies in the occupation of the institutions, more specifically the Tax Agency, in favour of friends of the PP, leaders of the People's Party and also of the People's Party itself. In today's specific case, we are referring to the use of the Tax Agency to favour, to save the People's Party. I will explain it in a simple way, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The Directorate of the Tax Agency, which must be responsible for collecting taxes, which must be placed on the side of the general interest, in a particular case does not want to charge a taxpayer. The People's Party should pay for the corporation tax €220,000 plus the sanctions resulting from the tax offence, and the judge, the National Court or the Directorate General of Taxes itself demands, but the Tax Agency, which wants and should collect, because it is the one that is defending all taxpayers, one of them, one in particular, does not want to collect €220,000 plus all the penalties for the tax offence. Ladies and gentlemen, this could be called a mischief, they could say that it is surreal that the Tax Agency does not want to charge when the judge says or the National Court says that it can charge, that the law is on its side. The Tax Agency doesn't want to charge, or simply, Your Honor, does that seem like an indecency to you? To me, in fact, what I think is a further indecency in the political direction of the Tax Agency. What does the taxpayers, the self-employed, the entrepreneurs, the citizens who are now making their income statement when they know through the media that the Tax Agency does not want to charge one of the taxpayers, who also has the right to charge because the judge, the National Court, I insist, and many inspectors and many technicians of the Tax Agency think that it is in their right to be able to charge that money? For this is what the inquiry is about, that we do nothing more and nothing less than the Minister of Finance. In other words, the Tax Agency does not want to charge because we are talking about a very special taxpayer, the People's Party, and that would not only imply that the People's Party has to pay that amount, but also acknowledge that the PP has committed a fiscal offence, and that politically it does not interest the political leadership of the Tax Agency, the political leadership of the ministry and the government itself. This is why today's inquiry is so clear and so simple. Now it is much better understood, Minister, that in February 2012 I changed the top officials of the National Fraud Investigation Office of the Tax Agency, I mean ONIF, and put people, leaders close to the People's Party. But Judge Ruz, the National High Court, the Directorate General of Taxes, inspectors and technicians agree that illegal donations must contribute to the Treasury, so that Judge Ruz asks the Tax Agency not to interpret the law, no, but to do a calculation of how much the People's Party would have to pay for the corporation tax by counting on such illegal donations, because if it is a legal donation it does not have to contribute according to the law, but if it is an illegal donation it has to contribute. That is what Judge Ruz asks, and the Tax Agency has long refused to do that calculation, but in the end it has no choice but to do so because if it were not violating the Constitution, the Criminal Code, etc. In addition, there is two more evidence, in our view, Minister, of the political interference of the Tax Agency in relation to this matter that we are talking about. The first, it turns out that the arguments of the Tax Agency in September 2013 to Judge Ruz coincide with the arguments of the People's Party when in April 2013, we are talking about September 2013, but before now the People's Party in April 2013 appeals to the Criminal Chamber of the National Audience its refusal to allow characterization as an accusation, and there the PP says first the same thing that the Tax Agency will then say, that is, that the Tax Agency does as an expert of the People's Party in a clear and meridian way. But there is another argument, the brother of the current director of the Tax Agency, Don Rogelio Menéndez, and his advisor, creates a document, as the spokesman of the Socialist Group said this morning, at 19:10 hours on 16 March 2015, very similar to that which the Tax Agency sends by fax at 20:02 hours on the same day, so similar that they coincide ten paragraphs, literal, with two hundred and forty-five identical words and thirteen figures unpublished and exact to the cent, which are referred in both documents. Minister, 19:10 is before 20:02, are you following me here, ladies and gentlemen? It's 19 before 20, that's how far we're going. That is, the minister's cabinet knew the document before sending it to Judge Ruz. Therefore, the report by Mr Rogelio Menéndez, which the media already know as the Caritas report, clearly demonstrates the political use of the Tax Agency for the benefit of the People's Party. Indeed, as my spokesman said in his speech, neither the PP is Caritas nor you Teresa de Calcutta, Mr Montoro; that is quite clear, they are not the same, although the report by Don Rogelio and the cabinet of the Minister say that the PP and Caritas are the same. The Socialist Group says that there are three kinds of consequences here: judicial, economic and political. The judicial consequences are very clear, not wanting to cooperate with justice in accordance with article 118 of the Constitution. This is not said by this humble spokesman, says Judge Ruz. Judge Ruz, sick of it, makes a final request to the Tax Agency saying: if you don't calculate what I'm asking of you, you're incurring a manifest illegality. Obviously, in the end the ONIF director has to do the calculation. Therefore, there is a legal responsibility. But it is also serious that, due to the violation of the law, the cabinet of the minister received information from the Tax Agency before he arrived at the judge. The question I ask myself, Mr Montoro, is whether you knew the document. His cabinet knew him, did you know him? There's a legal responsibility there too, along with the first one I've pointed out to you. I have also said that it has economic consequences, because in the end the use of institutions for the benefit of a political party has consequences on fiscal awareness, the fight against fraud, income, as well as on the functioning of an independent, modern administration that is not at the service of any taxpayer or political party. This has to do more with modernity than with the past, not using institutions; it is part of a modern economy, with competing companies that don't have to worry about whether or not to do the same because the Tax Agency demands the same from everyone. Therefore, there are economic consequences but also political consequences, and that is, Mr Montoro, what I want to ask you today in a clear way. Will your ministry, someone from your ministry, yourself, assume some kind of political responsibility for clear and meridian facts such as the use of the Tax Agency? Because the use of the Tax Agency has occurred throughout the legislature. The direction of the tax agency, Mr Montoro, has been a continuous scandal throughout the legislature. I would have liked to have not spoken for a minute about the political direction of the Tax Agency at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, but it is a scandal behind another. We have breakfast every day with a headline that surpasses the previous one. Will there be any political responsibility for the use of the Tax Agency, in this case for the benefit of the People's Party and in other cases for the benefit of the leaders of the People's Party? I'm done. Political regeneration is not going to start, it is not going to happen seriously until there is a political responsibility at the head of the Ministry of Finance, at the head of the Tax Agency and until the list of the defrauders who took up the tax amnesty is known. Until that happens, there will be no new beginning in the democratic regeneration of our country. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u193	Thank you, Mr. Saura. Mr. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Saura, I want to start this intervention by making a public defense of the Tax Agency. I want to defend the Tax Agency as a fundamental institution for public administration and for its management in defence of the general interests of all Spaniards. I would also like to defend officials who work in it with absolute impartiality, professionalism and independence and often against the misunderstanding of some political leaders who, instead of recognizing their effective work and professional dignity, are devoted to unfounded criticism, if not to the contempt of the institution or to trying to press for their own interests. It is nevertheless significant that it is in response to an inquiry by the Socialist Group which accuses the Government that it has not forced, as it says in its text, officials to rectify certain professional conduct. That is the question, but it is still significant that the Socialist Group criticises the government's invoking the autonomy and independence of officials - not of the Agency, but of Agency officials - to explain why it does not interfere in its work. Fantastic the interpellation formulated, it has merit! You have the whole legislature talking about the same thing. Why? Because he's not interested in talking about the big issues of public finance. You are not for the debate whether the reduction of the public deficit is facilitating economic recovery and job creation in Spain, you are for something else: to sow doubts, doubts that will have to be clearly cleared when the professionalism of the Tax Agency that, as I have insisted, has always existed is questioned. Or did it not exist during the stage when you held a public office with the former socialist government? Didn't the high offices of the Tax Agency change when I stopped being Minister of Finance in 2004? Did those changes involve any criticism on my part because someone had changed in the direction of the Tax Agency or some member of the People's Party? Not at all, but you, when a new government arrives with an absolute majority - changes that, on the other hand, are completely ordinary, official by official - come to formulate the issues with the severity with which your lordship spoke this morning, completely disqualifying your position. The Government, of course, does not oblige any public official to act in any particular direction. Or has it been done differently in the past of the Tax Agency? Did something happen when the first Falciani list arrived, Mr. Saura? Is that how it was done? Have you asked the then head of that Ministry of Finance and the Tax Agency? I'm sure he hasn't. I am defending the officials who acted by changing the procedures that were so far understood as common to the Falciani list. But you don't do the same, because you question officials. There are nineteen officials of the Tax Agency who have been appointed in the course of this judicial process since 2009, officials in legal aid in the well-known Gürtel case in their various variants. No judge has complained of any official. Why do you say the things you say from this rostrum? Who do you really disqualify, the government? Do you really think you're disqualifying the government with the statements you just made in this rostrum? For I have to say the opposite, that there are 26,000 officials in the Tax Agency, last year 1,400 officials of the Tax Agency intervened in legal aid, plus all those of the General Intervention of the State, who are intervening in legal aid. And do you really know why there is all that capacity, all that legal aid in Spain? Obviously, because the Tax Agency is to collaborate in the effectiveness of the enforcement of laws, in particular tax laws. That is the task entrusted to the Tax Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, participation as a legal aid is not regulated. There are certain gaps in our democracy and we have not regulated precisely what this action is about. But systematically the judges in Spain go to the Tax Agency when they have to interpret tax legislation, because in it lies the quality of the understanding of that tax legislation. In the case that you propose, as in any other case, a judge can address another type of expert, you can address a professional college, a professor in this matter, a professional repute, any kind of expert; but they do so referring to the Tax Agency, because they certainly find there a seriousness, rigour and also impartiality that, in any case where such judicial aid occurs, they are guaranteed. But always the last word in the interpretation of tax laws, as of any other law, belongs to the judges, that is our rule of law and, therefore, what the Tax Agency does is the interpretation of tax legislation taking it to the consideration of the relevant court. That's what it really is. Why do you make a political case for a determined judicial process that, of course, affects the People's Party, but also the Socialist Party is participating as an accuser? Why do you bring this into question when you are already personified in the cause? Don't you like how the cause goes and you bring it here? I mean, then every time you don't like it, every process of the cause where you personate, bring it here, bring it to political debate and go!, so we all clarify the circumstances of the cause. Why are they in person? I guess they are because they believe in justice, in court proceedings. And indeed, they are working and then the interpretation of the Tax Agency itself will come from where its contribution is. But you've come to say some things that are really fantastic, great! That there was already a previous interpretation of the People's Party to what was in 2013 the interpretation of the Tax Agency. Well, it's really great! I mean, the tax agency is interpreting the tax legislation, the current one! It is your duty to do so. And therefore, it transmits, and in the case we raise here it has done so on three occasions: 2013, 2014 and in the progress in the procedures of 2015. That is what you are doing and you are always doing, with efficiency and rigour that you will allow me to say that you are above me, of course, and above you; and of you, that you have no right to make the statements that you are making throughout the legislature, I tell you frankly, Mr Saura. Actually, hearing from you is not that it's monotonous, it's that it's something of a disqualification that is being disqualified is you. Because the tax agency collects taxes. Don't you complain that we're collecting a lot of taxes in Spain? Isn't that the political criticism they make? Is there a collection or no collection? Are you improving the collection or are you not improving the collection? That's measured. So, do we have an effective tax agency? Don't we have it? Do we have to create it? Do we have to reinvent it? No, we got her. Therefore, the obligation of all political groups, and more than one group that has precisely had the responsibility to govern Spain during most of our democracy, is to speak in another way; its representative should speak in another way. On the other hand, it speaks of usurpation of institutions. But how do you do that? How does the minister address an official to whom he does not know, who is in legal aid, destined there, who is also the same as he was since 2009? How does the minister address him? I just don't know how to do it. Frankly, look at that technology has advanced in terms of precisely facilitating communications, which is what causes you some confusion - including schedules - but let's get to the bottom of it. How do you do that? I don't know how to do it, I publicly declare that I don't know how to do it, and I'm sure no one has done it before. Or did a socialist government do that before, Mr. Saura? Did he? It's just that I've been a finance minister before, and I didn't. I stopped being a minister, but the officials, all of them, are officials; they can change positions, but from there have you ever heard me criticize a public official? You're disqualifying public servants, and you're doing it easily... And it conveys to society an idea so wrong, so confused as if it could really be done. We live in a much more serious country, I can assure you. I can tell the Spanish public that they can have the security of what the institutions in Spain are doing; that thanks to the fact that we have among those institutions the Tax Agency, we are coming out as much as we are doing in this legislature, things that perhaps would never have been known and that today are known thanks to the Tax Agency. That is something we have to value, because it has been thanks to the independence of its officials, who are the ones who really set out the procedures to follow. On the other hand, it is up to the courts and not a minister of the Government of Spain to interfere in a judicial procedure and to make pronouncements on it. And, of course, it is - in my modest opinion - for the political groups in the House not to make any calls that are really questioning the very essence of our institutions and the functioning of the rule of law. Wait for that judicial process to move forward, for us to know its consequences and then you can make some kind of political assessment, but don't interfere with interpellations like this, like the ones we saw this morning, and also with such a political sense as it is that I leave the ministry. You have already said that, Mr Sánchez has said, everything is summed up in the same thing, in the end we come to the same conclusion, Mr Saura. You very much want this minister to stop being so, and that is very legitimate, but to get to that point it is not necessary to delegitimize the professional qualification, the independence of 26,000 people who work at the Spanish Tax Agency. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u195	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u196	Thank you, Madam President. The scandals of the Tax Agency have not been invented by the Socialist Party, they are scandals that, as I said earlier in my speech, appear in the media one day yes and another as well, and what this parliamentary group and this humble spokesman does is to bring those scandals here to ask for political responsibilities. That is the constitutional work of the opposition group; that is, it is not a scandal that the Socialist Party has never invented. The tax amnesty hasn't invented it. The fact that Mr Bárcenas was welcomed has not been invented, neither has the Gürtel plot nor that of Mr Rato. The Socialist Group and this spokesman have to come here and ask for political responsibilities. That's my role, that's my job, and that's what I do every Wednesday, it bothers you or not, Mr. Montoro. Secondly, you are wrapped with the flag of the Tax Agency. Don't hang up, Mr. Montoro. I'm talking about the political direction of the tax agency. Of course you have raised the levy, because you have raised taxes, and you have raised taxes as never before in the history of democracy. The collection would be greater if the Tax Agency had more means and you weren't against the fiscal awareness of the Spaniards as it goes day after day. Of course you do, but don't get involved in the tax agency flag. I am not talking about all the employees of the Tax Agency, I am talking about the political direction of the Tax Agency. That argument, Mr Montoro, is very old and very seen; it doesn't stick. Thirdly, the minister says: the ministry collaborates with justice and collaborates with thousands of justice-related matters. And I say to you, Mr Montoro: yes, what happens is that the political leadership of the Tax Agency when it comes to a matter relating to the People's Party or someone in the People's Party no longer cooperates. That's the problem. I can give you many examples, but today I have brought you one and I have given you concrete examples: the Directorate General of Taxes, which belongs to the ministry, the judge, the National Court tell the Tax Agency: you cover, you can collect, you can interpret the law according to how the law is designed and has been approved in Parliament; you cover. But the political direction of the Tax Agency doesn't want to charge because if it does, the PP ends up with a tax offence. Mr. Montoro, that's what everyone understands, and so are you. You say: it is a report from the technicians, not the ministry. No, I will explain it to you; that argument breaks, it is not consistent from the moment there is a political report that coincides with the other, which is handled by the cabinet of the minister. That's what doesn't hang up. Yes, there is political use, because, what is the original? The one from the ministry or the one that did the tax agency? Which one? Because the data is here. [[Show a document]] I am not inventing it, not even being invented by the Socialist Group; a means of communication has shown that a document is made before it is sent to the judge; then, it does not follow the argument that it is a technical report, because they do not actually answer me to very concrete things. You say: there is a judicial procedure. No, we are in a political seat, in the national Parliament, and if you do not assume political responsibilities we will propose to the House that it impose political responsibilities on you. That's what we're going to end up doing because there's no political responsibility at all; I'm not a judge or a prosecutor, I'm a humble politician who's demanding political responsibility from you. I'm done, Mr. Montoro. It is not my fault that every day the political direction of the Tax Agency is immersed in a scandal. Look at him; something must be failing. Think about it, because you blame me for all the evils, but look at you, I'm sure that in your parliamentary group you are thinking how there may be a scandal day after day. Mr Montoro, in the 21st century we cannot pass that tax amnesty, because white-collar criminals in our country have been welcomed. Look at what you've done for the past three years as well. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u197	Mr. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Saura, you have found reasons to ask for my reprobation; they had already done so at the press conference I don't know how many weeks ago. The argument is well-armed: because the Tax Agency is giving up €220,000. It's a great argument he's built. After such an intellectual, political or tax finding, there comes a time when the arguments are defeated. Scandal after scandal, as his lordship says. The scandal is that Spain is recovering as it is. That's a scandal. And you are the one who has held the opposite thesis the most during every parliamentary term. What is a scandal is the position of the Socialist Group in this legislature: it has not supported a single reform or a single law that has allowed us to have this economic recovery and this job creation. Of course there are many areas and in a free country we all have to think and value; in a free country we obviously think. I do not have to remind you that a person who thought and spoke until recently about political interference with the Tax Agency has become a member of the candidacy of the Socialist Party for the mayor of Madrid. This is a free and welcome country that also the professionals of the Tax Agency are in political options, but the qualification he made, why he spoke like that has already become clear, and now he has moved on to the ranks and candidacy of the Socialist Party. I should like to welcome the fact that policy is actually being made, but not from the institutions, that they have an obligation to carry out the laws passed by this House effectively and rigorously. That's what institutions like the Tax Agency do. And justice makes its decisions and has to do so with the input of the criteria that are being given to it. To this end, the will of judges and prosecutors in the vast majority, when dealing with tax matters, is to resort to the judicial assistance of the Tax Agency. I've explained before why they do it. They do not have to do so; we could ask for other assessments, experts and sources to make the last legal assessment, but they do so precisely on the rigour, on the correct interpretation, which is what we should not question at a stage like the one we are living in. This is a stage of cleansing, of blossoming, of fighting against fraud in a proportion as never before had we had in the history of the Spanish Treasury. Thanks to the DTE of the year 2102 and to Law 7/2012, Antifraud, we have had the emergence of more than 100 billion euros belonging to 149,000 taxpayers, and that is something that has never happened in the history of the Spanish Treasury, and I obviously, in my capacity as Minister of Finance, have to celebrate that today we know the Spaniards that we have, because they are Spanish citizens those goods and rights abroad that had not been declared before this stage. That's reality, quantified reality. Other things are other things, but they must be given less importance in the face of realities that are being imposed. I have never seen such an effective fight against fraud in its various manifestations, Mr Saura; never. Or do you know of any historical moment with which we can really contrast these figures? The Council of Ministers - and I conclude, Madam President - will see and approve next Friday the reform of the General Tax Law. This reform of the General Tax Law will come immediately to this House and we will have the opportunity to hear the opinions of the political groups regarding the partial lifting of the confidentiality that today contains the General Tax Law in its article 95, and we will also have the opportunity to raise and discuss what is appropriate, what the Spanish society should know about data relating to tax declarations of Spanish citizens. We are going to do that reform and, therefore, we are going to use this last leg of Parliament for a task that is important, the task of transparency. The announcement already made by the Government was that in the change of the General Tax Law would go the advertising of late taxpayers with the Public Treasury and defrauders of the Public Treasury, but we will also listen to the opinion of the other political groups as to what we should make public and non-public regarding the procedures of the Tax Agency. You have ruled Spain for a long time and have done nothing, nothing. In terms of advertising, they have done nothing, as they will now take a more positive attitude. [[Applauds]] Don't get carried away by fashions, either. Think about it. Someday they will return to be the Government of Spain. Or don't they aspire to it? I therefore demand the wisdom of what you represent in Spanish society as an option for the Government of Spain precisely when it comes to assessing and making offers when it is in opposition and when it is especially aspired to be the Government of Spain again. That moderation must also dominate the arguments, and when we have now, in a very short time, the next week, the opportunity to discuss parliamentaryly the contents of that amendment of the General Tax Law, we will formally know your group's opinion on this. Are they going to argue that only one part is published and not the other? It's interesting and that's why I was telling you. I have heard your proposal repeatedly, but I want to see in writing what kind of publicity they refer to, what they want us to disseminate to all political groups. Of course, the Government will be open to all its suggestions. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u199	Thank you, Minister. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ariztegui, on the position of the Government in relation to the consequences of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement between Europe and the United States. [[TTIP]] [[File number 172/000301]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u200	We now turn to the question by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ariztegui, about the Government's position on the consequences of the Transatlantic Agreement for Trade and Investment between Europe and the United States. Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is raining on wet, but this is no longer a big deal, we are faced with a real hurricane that threatens to drag our most fundamental rights and destroy our productive and social system. There are currently thousands of trade agreements in force that directly result in the loss of sovereignty, we know that, but this is not comparable to any other. In no way is an agreement on the import or export of goods, the TTIP or Transatlantic Agreement for Trade and Investment is the highest exponent of the current economic system. Changing the laws to use them against citizenship and in favor of big companies is to delve into the model that we so well know of the cuts and misery of the majority for the wealth of a few, but this is to delve brutally, so that if it were adopted in the terms we know we could talk about a before and after the TTIP, a new world order so desired by a few. Its recognized objective is - and I quote text - to eliminate the different situations and regulations that may exist between the two parties and thus achieve the unification of the markets, but always lowering, reducing rights, always matching from below. It intends to fly over European and state legislation, but always in one direction, that of the benefit of the big corporations, which, like Pedro for his home, will be able to counter, attack and denounce any rule that could harm his business, as has been acknowledged - and I quote again - that the laws of a state and the decisions of its governments never harm the big multinationals and their economic interests. In short, this agreement would put an end to the sovereignty of peoples, to democracy itself and to the capacity to legislate their institutions, which is essential for guaranteeing public rights and services for citizens. States, municipalities and self-governments would lose the little sovereignty we have. Because if this agreement is very serious for the States, what will it not be for the peoples who do not have the legal tools that the States have, for the workers and in general for all the people we live here? And you, who for some things so patriotic are, are you going to be able to sell your soul, your sovereignty, to the devil for a dish of lentils? [[Applauds]] Today Mr Rajoy has brought the issue here for the first time - it was about time - and says he will boost economic development and job creation. Of course! If it's so good, why are they negotiating in the most absolute secret, in the dark? What are you hiding? Why are the subjects being negotiated hidden under lock and key, why are all civil society organisations not involved? What do these documents have so that European parliamentarians cannot access them normally? Is it normal for people elected by the people if they want to look at the documents to be deprived of even paper and pen and have to sign fourteen sheets promising confidentiality? Why is that huge media debate in Europe hiding it? They don't talk about it at all. What pressures or common interests move around the TTIP? Because the companies that promote it are well informed, they are heard and defended their interests by the national negotiators. From the beginning they were asked to put on the table all the barriers to trade between the parties, and the truth is that the negotiators involved are only collecting advice and requests from the multinationals of the two continents, and of course they are doing so in all detail. No one has chosen them, but they are negotiating on fundamental aspects of our life, of our future. Mr Rajoy has said that he wants the treaty to be fair, but what we know is quite the opposite. It seeks to undermine the legitimate protection of the European area and leaves no head: social and ecological regulations, labour rights, social protection, public services, health, the environment and food, that is, everything essential for life, everything vital. And since food is not played, we start with what is left for the end, how it would affect the agricultural sector. It's a genuine ethnocide. Europe, weak in the international context, seeks to strengthen itself in its union with the United States and has thus approved the CAP reform, which runs until 2020, supporting the TTIP. This, together with the agreement with Canada, faces two models of production that are far apart from one another, undergoes a brutal conversion of European farmers. It is a real suicide to compare the US macro-farms and their model, without health or environmental conditions, with European sizes. And what is really serious is that the concept of food production and health security is absolutely opposed between the United States and Europe. In Europe we say: from the farm to the table, that is, healthy agricultural production is a healthy food. This requires a principle of prevention, with strict health regulations, which we know continue to favour the interests of industry against local production, but they do require, for example in meat, the conditioning of livestock premises, their food and water conditions, traceability throughout the chain. It is found that when risk elements are introduced without ensuring the precautionary principle in production, serious health crises have occurred. Do you remember the mad cow crisis? Well, it came about using meatmeal. In the United States, in addition to the use in the production of hormone meats, antibiotics, transgenics, etc., there is no prior control. Once the product is put on sale, if someone believes it is unhealthy they should prove it. By not being able to control the production process, public bodies cannot certify that the product is healthy and scientific certificates are made by companies, so they are always favorable. That's exactly what happens to transgenics in the United States. There 70% of the products are genetically modified. These products will flood our supermarkets and the worst part is that we will not be able to impose any limitations or develop any policy that will defend us from that pollution. Of course, in the face of the lack of health guarantees and even if it really seems to us to be nonsense, disinfectant measures are applied, such as treating meats with chlorines or lactic acids to clean up the microbes, and the residues of these products end up in what we take to our mouths. By matching the bass, junk food for everyone. Moreover, due to health and hygiene standards, production costs are much higher in Europe. Neither large companies - hear well - can compete in prices with U.S. production. There is no need to be a psychic or anything to imagine where these standards of health, environment and consumer protection will remain in the face of pressure from multinationals. The rules, marked by the companies on the basis of a work of science and research financed by them - i.e. I like it, I like it - will adapt to the large industrial farms and the needs of the food industry and the large distribution. Which small or medium-sized producer, with limited resources, can adapt to these standards? No one, not even those who think they're big. These rules will eliminate, even more, peasants, farmers and farmers, and will develop industrial agriculture, which is devastating for society and the environment. The European Commission itself has said that the development of the agreement can be detrimental to the environment. The development of long-distance trade is already increasing pollution itself, and if the principle of prudence is eliminated above, it is very clear that the regulation in force in Europe will be greatly damaged. While the European chemical industries are banned from using thousands of products and being the much more relaxed environmental regulation in the United States, it is clear that the agreement will bring about deregulation and the consequent serious environmental condition. And it will bring fracking, because the big companies in the U.S. sector, after investing millions of dollars in that system for years, now look to Europe eager for money. Our regulations or prohibitions are the main obstacle to their expansion. Of course, minute sin for them by being able to remove them from a pen with a line of this agreement. And how will it affect health? I give you a small example that can summarize the consequences. In Europe, the use of 12,000 products to produce cosmetics is prohibited because they can cause cancer or other diseases while in the United States there are only twelve prohibited products. So trembling and enchanted pharmaceutical industries and asking for more. That is, always thinking about health but about their bank accounts, not to mention the risk that the more we look at the United States system the privatization processes, which are already marching at an accelerated pace, will become irreversible. Let us not forget that there is a very limited list of public services that cannot be privatized, with the serious consequences that they can have for the sustainability of life, especially harming the groups in need of care: children, the elderly, disabled and disabled. Nor can we forget the fear this agreement gives with regard to the regulation of labour relations, because, despite the labour reforms we have undergone in recent years, it remains more demanding than in the United States, which, let us recall, has only signed two of the eight ILO conventions. The multinationals have denounced that workers' rights cause them serious costs and huge barriers to competition. In view of the above, they will immediately enforce this agreement to violate these rights, limit the rights of collective representation, reduce wages and accelerate this relentless process of deregulation of labour relations. As a truce of this cake, we have ISDS, the diabolical mechanism created to clarify disputes and complaints between multinationals and states. That is, if an agreement adopted democratically by a State allegedly harmed the economy of an international corporation, it could resort directly to the international arbitration tribunals, which would resolve the dispute over the administration of justice in that country. That is to say, the sovereign power of the States disappears and it remains in the hands of three international judges to solve only the costs motivated by the agreement adopted and the fine, which must be paid by them. And that's the point. The enterprise above the state and the sovereignty of the consolidated states at ground level. That is to say, the situation of peoples who do not have full economic and political sovereignty in front of such corporations is better and we do not speak. That is why, in view of the fact that this TTIP only has negative effects, the concentration of economic power and a terrible process of deregulation that would particularly affect food, health, the environment, labour relations and the application of the law, among other things, by eliminating rights and regulations achieved for years through the struggle of citizens and workers, with the alarm that generates all this, we call on the Government to change its attitude towards it, to listen to what people are saying on the street, to defend the interests of all people and nations and to inform and consult citizens with complete transparency about their content and the negotiation process. We want to have a specific and monographic debate here on the subject and, bearing in mind that it is de facto a constitutional mutation - because it guarantees the rights of investors over and above the rights of citizens - before we ratify any agreement we ask for a referendum to be held so that the citizens consciously and well informed can be expressed in the ballot box. I'm done, Madam President. Euskal Herria is moving towards a sovereign state in every sense - also in the economic - and he will not be free if he does not struggle to take his way in the face of this new neoliberal oppression.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u202	Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u203	We're on it and we're going to bury this TTIP.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Ariztegui. Minister for Agriculture, Food and Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u205	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, reaching an ambitious and satisfactory free trade agreement between the United States and the European Union on both sides will undoubtedly promote economic growth on both sides of the Atlantic and will have a positive impact on our economy and on job creation, i.e. on the Spanish. The United States is a very popular market for many sectors of our economy and presents great opportunities for our agri-food sector, and our agri-food sector is asking us to do so. The Government in these negotiations monitors and defends the interests of all our sectors in order to achieve an ambitious and balanced treaty. The European Union is the world's leading trading power with more than 500 million inhabitants. It imports more goods and services than the United States or China. Foreign trade employs more than 30 million people in the European Union, of whom about one and a half million are Spanish citizens. The European Union and the United States as a whole, with more than 800 million inhabitants, are the world's largest trading and investment partners. Together we produce more than 50% of the world's gross domestic product, generating one third of the world's trade. The European Union is the second exporter of goods to the United States, only behind China, and is also the second most important destination for its exports, only behind Canada. As for Spain, the United States is a trading partner of strategic and fundamental importance to our economy. Our exports to the United States reached 10,642 million euros in 2014. This is a higher figure than all exports to Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, the three main trading partners in Ibero-America. As far as agri-food trade is concerned, it is a key market for Spain, and that is what our sector is repeatedly asking for. Of the total Spanish agri-food exports - EUR 40,830 million in 2014-, 24,2 % is destined for third countries; of that percentage, 14 % is allocated to the United States. It is the first market between third countries and represents 3.4% of our total exports. This meant a total of EUR 1,383 million last year. These figures reflect the high degree of integration that is already taking place between the two economies, but there is no doubt that there is an important potential for improvement and development, which is what is being pursued in the current negotiations, which will culminate in a negotiating process tried on previous occasions without satisfactory progress. A transatlantic council was established in 2007 to give impetus to the transatlantic economy. The high-level group established at this forum in February 2013, in the context of an economic, financial and growth crisis in both areas of the Atlantic, recommended that the procedures for negotiating a free trade area be initiated with the conviction of both parties that reaching this agreement would have a very beneficial effect on economic growth and employment. For Spain this agreement will mean increasing the volume of our exports and continuing to give our agri-food sector new opportunities for growth, development and job creation throughout the territory, a priority and irrefutable objective of this government. This context of economic crisis has made the agreement go beyond the classic approach of tariff reduction and market opening, including aspects such as regulatory convergence or technical barriers, which does not mean elimination of regulation. All public or private studies agree that this agreement will have significant benefits for both economies and will have a positive impact on the global economy as a whole. The Centre for Economic Policy Research's impact analysis for the European Commission estimates an increase of 0.5% in the Community's gross domestic product and 0.4% in the United States, an increase in Community exports of 187 billion and an average increase in disposable income of EUR 545 per family: welfare for citizens. According to the Bertelsmann Foundation study, Spain would be the fourth country that would benefit most from job creation, generating between 36,000 and 143,000 new jobs depending on whether a tariff-limited agreement or a broader agreement was reached, also addressing non-tariff barriers. As far as per capita income is concerned, it attributes Spain a growth of between 0.31% and 6.55% according to these different scenarios, and in both cases the benefits for our country will be above the Community average. Thus, great opportunities are opening up for the European economy and for the Spanish economy, and particularly good for our agri-food sector. In June 2013, the Council of the European Union unanimously approved the negotiating mandate for the Commission. The agreement as a whole is structured into three pillars: market access, regulatory aspects and non-tariff barriers, and standards. Market access negotiates as wide a tariff reduction as possible on the basis of tariffs that are generally already low by both parties. Some tariff peaks still persist, such as for tuna canned fish, where, according to estimates by the sector itself, tariff elimination would result in the creation of 35,000 new jobs in the canned fish sector in Spain. This broad tariff reduction does not exclude a differentiated treatment for the most sensitive products in both areas, which may consist of more prolonged tariff reductions over time, the establishment of quotas or the inclusion of a bilateral safeguard clause in the event of threat or disruption of markets. The second pillar, on regulatory aspects and non-tariff barriers, is even more important than the tariff chapter. This includes an essential aspect for the agri-food sector: sanitary or phytosanitary measures. In this chapter it is where the greatest benefits of the agreement can be achieved. The aim is to remove unnecessary barriers to trade and to promote the compatibility of legislation through mutual recognition, which is not removed. The aim is to intensify bilateral dialogue to build the necessary confidence between the parties, increase transparency, reduce trade barriers and improve cooperation on issues related to technical barriers to trade, all of which will facilitate openness to transparency and convergence of regulatory approaches. The objective is to reduce redundant certification requirements, to promote the confidence of the certification bodies of both parties and, ultimately, to enhance trade and development. Removing these barriers is essential for some of our products. For example, for olives, in some cases it is mandatory to carry out inspections in 100 per cent of shipments, which is an additional cost and a serious difficulty in accessing the US market. Nevertheless, Spanish table olive exports account for an average of 19% of our total exports over the past six years, reaching over 350,000 tonnes. How much better it would be if these unnecessary barriers were removed. The removal of such barriers has therefore been raised by the Spanish delegation to the Commission, which has taken it as its own in the negotiations. Another clear example of these difficulties which are now to be overcome affects clearly exporting sectors, such as fruit and vegetables. For this sector the American authorization procedures are extremely slow, fourteen years in the case of avocados and apricots. This reduces commercial interest when the United States completes the authorization process and loses development opportunities. In many cases the export conditions limit our potential exporter because of its high cost, such as the requirement of the presence of an American inspector during the export campaign paid at the expense of the Spanish exporters. All this is what is intended to improve. The third pillar of the agreement is the rules, and it includes an essential and extremely important element for our interests, that of the protection of geographical indications. Our goal is to achieve a clear improvement in the protection of our quality figures. In 2006 the United States and the European Union signed a bilateral wine trade agreement recognizing the protection of Community designations of origin. This agreement was an important step forward, but it does not guarantee exclusivity for a number of designations of origin, including Sherry or Malaga, if used before the date of entry into force. This is one of the elements that we want to improve in the current agreement by returning the exclusivity in the use of names to their legitimate owners. Your Honor, this government has worked intensively over the past three years to strengthen the internationalization of our companies, so that sectors, including agri-food, grow and create jobs, to increase our presence in traditional markets and to search for new ones, because food industry exports reached 40,829 million euros in 2014. We are the eighth world food-exporting country; it is a priority objective of this Government to consolidate and improve our presence in all international markets. The World Trade Organization accounts for 90% of world economic growth in the coming years outside the European Union, so we are convinced that more and more markets and more products need to be reached. It is an objective of this government to export more volume with greater added value, and for a clear reason: the agri-food sector already accounts for about 30% of production abroad; it accounts for between 30% and 40% of total employment, about five hundred thousand jobs, and this can increase. That is why we established a strategic plan for internationalization, within which, in May 2013, practically coincided with the launch of the TTIP negotiations, strategic lines for internationalization were adopted. We are convinced that there is a capacity in Spain to reach higher market shares, both by improving our presence in traditional markets and by consolidating and expanding new markets. The U.S. is one of our target markets, because it will bring opportunities for growth and employment in rural areas, and that's what we're looking for. However, as is inevitable in any trade agreement, there are sensitivities in the different chapters of the negotiation that must be protected and where more vigilance is needed. We are aware that any concession that does not consider the substantial differences in the conditions of production between the European Union and the United States could cause injury to producers, which have to comply with stricter rules and which entails higher production costs. But we are fully convinced of the opportunities for a satisfactory outcome. That is why the Government has supported a comprehensive and ambitious agreement, which does not mean supporting any agreement. As far as the agri-food sector is concerned, the European Union has, over time, been providing itself with a series of conditional provisions that constitute the European agricultural model. It is true that this model poses greater demands for our producers. These are the standards of quality and safety which European society demands and which we are not prepared to give up. Let me stress that we are faced with the most important trade negotiations in the European Union so far. As Commissioner Malmström said in this House on 6 March, the TTIP agreement, in addition to helping to establish the largest free trade area in the world, with all that it entails in terms of growth, development and employment for both parties, will remove bureaucratic obstacles, simplify customs procedures and serve to confirm other common values, such as those relating to human rights, fundamental freedoms and citizen security. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u206	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u207	Minister, you haven't answered anything. His neoliberal dream is our democratic nightmare. As Eduardo Galeano said, deceased this week, we have to look backwards at the stories you tell us to understand them to the law. This treaty is not at all what you have said. It is a coup d'état and a death check on the agricultural sector and the working class, concisely and directly. You, from what we see - it has only given numbers -, conceive life as a bazaar, full of objects for business, not as a space in which we live people, and to sell not everything is worth. I would like to disassemble with economic data all those kindnesses of which you have spoken. The Commission is talking about a possible economic growth of 0.1 % per annum in one of the best possible scenarios. They talk about generating four hundred thousand jobs across Europe, one hundred fifty thousand in the Spanish state. And what if there are already almost 5 million unemployed? Not to mention the companies that will close, the farmers that will run out of market or the precariousness of jobs. The forecasts are not credible, I'm sorry; they have been drawn from econometric models that depend on unrealistic hypotheses, manipulating the indicators as they are interested, the statistical models, to tell them what is right for them. That maximum they use of more trade, more employment is a lie. Eurovegas was also to create two hundred and thirty thousand jobs. Why do we not rely on similar treaty experiences? That's more rigorous. The 1993 agreement between Canada, the United States and Mexico announced the creation of 20 million jobs; and the United States Chamber of Commerce itself has acknowledged that it was not fulfilled. In fact, there are reasonable estimates, moreover independent, that there is a net loss of one million posts for relocations, mainly. Trade between the United States and Mexico has increased dramatically. There are seriously damaged sectors, including, of course, Mexican agriculture, the great loser. Imports of grain and meat have increased fivefold. Their food sovereignty is on the ground, having everything first. Moreover, the precariousness of work, the relocation to regions with lower wages and labour costs is terrible. Large factories in Detroit - now an area in misery - sent production to Mexico, where workers earn, in turn, a misery. There are aggravated, accelerated problems, and more and more Mexicans feel discriminated against. The Commission itself assumes that jobs will be destroyed. Whole sectors would disappear in some countries - this is clear, because this has happened other times - and bring more concentration, more centralisation of companies. It is a real hack not only to the whole primary sector, but to the social majority of the business fabric. Ninety-nine per cent of the companies here are small and medium-sized enterprises, and so far the aim was to balance the conditions so that they could compete on equal terms with the large ones; but with the TTIP, that balance breaks. It is clear - as economists say in many well-founded studies - that it will widen the gap between the centre and the periphery, which already exists, because it is a deadly blow to the fragile industries of the periphery that, above, will not be able to develop their own and competitive industry. This, moreover, is a very selfish position on the part of some countries that were previously industrialized, corporations that arrived where they are with measures contrary to those they are now proposing, and now they take the ladder away from others so that they can climb or survive. You are talking about the agri-food sector asking for this. I'd like to know what it is, who it is, where it is. Do we or do we not bet on our agricultural, social, environmental and economically valuable means of food security, quality agriculture or impose the law of the jungle? Look what is already happening with the elimination of milk quotas. For example, not half of the designations of origin will be saved. In the agreement with Canada, only 120 were maintained throughout Europe; and the worst is that no new ones will be registered. What good is it for us to sell more wine, which can already be sold now, if we are not going to guarantee quality and without even a designation of origin? Are we going to start fighting selfishly now to see who stays with them? We see that they want one, chineseization. of Europe. Abandon that road and listen to what the street says. This Saturday will also talk; and in Euskal Herria we will also go out massively to say no to this TTIP. What we want is for them to put light and tachographs on the papers and listen to what people, people on the street, are going to be affected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u208	Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u209	I'm finishing up. In this gulf between the European precautionary principle, it is better to prevent than to regret, and with regard to the American risk principle, the one who believes that something is not good for him to prove it, and there goes our fundamental rights regarding the health and well-being of people and the environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u210	Mrs. Ariztegui.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u211	Yeah, I'm done. The question is, how far are they willing to lower the red lines? Because current European standards do not allow for rebates. Listen to the street and stop this TTIP.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Ariztegui. Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u213	Thank you, Madam President. As for your assertion that this is an agreement that is being conducted in secret, without transparency and without civil society participation, I would like to say that this is not true. Before the current negotiations began, there was a long process of reflection which included a public consultation together with various debates in the Council and the European Parliament, where the whole of European citizenship is represented. This decision, as you see, was not made in secret; neither are the negotiations. I invite everyone to visit the Commission's website to check the information and all the documentation available in connection with this matter. A major information campaign is also being carried out by the Government of Spain together with the European Commission, with a website where extensive information is available. On the part of the Ministry of Agriculture, we maintain permanent contacts with the representatives of the sector in order to know their views, interests and concerns and to establish their positions on the basis of them. These are the ones who ask us to move on. There is a Trade-related Consultative Commission on International Trade Negotiations in which all productive sectors, including agricultural professional organizations, are represented, which meets at least twice a year and where the status of trade agreements is informed on time. In the Ministry, in the Working Group on Internationalization, we have set up a specific working group to inform all agri-food sectors on time. The European Union foresees among its objectives for negotiation that the agreement promotes high levels of protection for the environment, work and consumers. The European Union has committed itself in the negotiating mandate to ensuring that trade and investment growth is achieved without reducing the application of standards and policies of Member States, on vital issues such as sustainable development, employment and the environment that you see as being so threatened, and not so. TTIP will not result in a decrease in the level of consumer protection, inter alia, because both parties have a very high level of protection. The general idea of this treaty is to establish mechanisms to facilitate trade, to establish regulatory cooperation that allows, to the extent possible, to avoid divergences between the regulatory approach adopted by each of the parties, so that new trade barriers do not arise - they are commercial but not protective neither of the environment nor of the safety of the citizens - and therefore that they do not in any case mean a reduction in levels of safety and health that each party is responsible for in its territory. The United States and the European Union have very high labour, social and environmental standards, of the best in the world. The agreement will not reduce these standards, it will not contain provisions that call into question the European Union's ability to regulate its labour market, social and environmental standards. The European Union - it has already done so in many other trade agreements already concluded - has proposed the inclusion of provisions on trade and sustainable development to ensure that the increase in trade does not occur at the expense of labour rights or the environment, and the negotiation of this agreement will not be an exception in this regard. Social labour or environmental policies will therefore simply not be affected or affected. The mandate of the negotiation implies that the application of environmental, employment and sustainable development standards should not be reduced. On the part of the European Union's sanitary and phytosanitary measures, we in the European Union envisage the prohibition of the use of antibiotics that promote growth, the use of hormones or the import of animals that have been fed with them or restrictions on the cultivation and import of GMOs. They are practices that are applicable in the United States and, therefore, these issues will receive appropriate treatment, and the Commission has repeatedly stated this. The aim is to remove trade barriers, without reducing safety and health levels. This is the position of the Government and this is what the European Commission guarantees us, who, at a meeting in the Joint Committee for the European Union and for Economics and Competitiveness on 6 March last, mentioned that TTIP will not undermine our levels of protection of the food safety environment. We will only cooperate with the United States on regulatory issues where we have the same objectives. We are not going to change the rules on hormones in meat or on genetically modified organisms. These are not my words; they are the words of Commissioner Malmström, responsible for the negotiation, just over fifteen days ago, and I believe that things cannot be said in a clearer way. Ladies and gentlemen, as I see there is little time left for me to conclude by saying that the Spanish Government certainly supports such negotiations, because it can represent a historic opportunity for the Spanish economy, especially for the agri-food sector for which we have been working for more than three years. However, there are a number of red lines that we are not going to overcome, including the maintenance of what we know as a model of European agriculture, but we are also not going to deprive a sector that is demanding of us of opportunities for development and employment. We work to create jobs, to give opportunities that generate wealth throughout the national territory. We care a lot about local development. Agriculture and the Spanish food industry, which is a major exporter even though they are SMEs, with a huge capacity to conquer markets, ask us to continue to increase their welfare levels, to give them opportunities, and this, as I said and said before, is the ultimate end of this government's policies together with ensuring the safety of our citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u214	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF PROGRESS AND DEMOCRACY UNION, ON THE PROPOSALS OF THE GOVERNMENT ON THE CONDITION OF NATIONAL AND CRIME CLEANNESS AGAINST HUMANITY COMMITTED BY THE TERRORIST STATUS AND ITS POLITICAL ENTERPRISE, TO GIVE THE NEED FOR SATISFACTION AND RECOGNIZATION TO THE VICTIMS OF THE VICTIMS OF THESE VIOLATIONS MANIFIED TO THE INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND SATISFACER THE INALIDABLE RIGHT TO KNOW THE TRUTH. [[File number 172/000302]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u215	We turn to the following question, in this case of Union Progreso and Democracy, about the Government's intentions regarding the condemnation of national cleansing and crimes against humanity committed by the terrorist gang ETA and its political fabric, in order to give the necessary satisfaction and recognition to the victims of these gross violations of international human rights standards and to satisfy the inalienable right to know the truth. For your defence, Mrs. Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u216	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 17 March this year, just a few days ago, the Board of Spokesmen of the Parliament of Navarre adopted an institutional declaration condemning national cleansing and crimes against humanity, committed by the Abertzale Left and its armed arm, ETA, promoted by the Association of Dignity and Justice, which also had the favourable votes of the Socialist Party of Navarre, the People's Party and the Union of the Navarro People. This institutional declaration consists of three paragraphs, the first of which, and I would like to point out, is the fundamental origin of this inquiry and of the motion I hope will be put to the debate and consideration next week and also to the vote. The Parliament of Navarre recognizes and condemns the national cleansing, crimes against humanity and acts of genocide committed by the Abertzale left and, as it said, by its armed arm, ETA, in the territory of the Basque Country and Navarre, and shows its solidarity with all its victims. I do not exaggerate if I say that on 17 March, when this institutional declaration was adopted, it was a good day for democracy, a good day for the Democrats throughout Spain, and a bad day for the murderers, for the terrorists and for those who have made democracy their main enemy. It was a bad day for all those who have spent their whole lives trying to destroy democracy, trying to destroy the plural and democratic society that we have striven to defend, for those who in this attempt to destroy democracy have destroyed the lives of hundreds of honest citizens, hundreds of honest people, hundreds of innocent people, and thereby destroyed the lives of all their families and friends. Good day for democracy; bad day for terrorists. Of course, this is not the first time that such a debate has taken place in a Spanish democratic institution; of course, it is not the first time that even in this House there has been a debate on the need to make an act of reparation of these characteristics, an act of reparation that must be preceded by consideration of what are the crimes of ETA: crimes against humanity. This is the most significant, most important of that statement by the Navarro Parliament, the consideration of crime against humanity. I say that this is not the first time a debate has been held with this claim, even in this House. In the Congress of Deputies, in the two legislatures in which I have been - I do not know if it was previously done - that I recall this parliamentary group has brought to debate the request to the Government of the nation - once to the previous Government, presided over by Rodríguez Zapatero; another to the People's Government, presided over by Mr Rajoy - that the International Criminal Court be called upon to consider terrorism as one of the crimes against humanity and therefore the competence of the International Criminal Court. By the way, the two times, the non-law proposal that was debated in the last legislature and the one that was debated in this legislature, were approved. In other words, the Congress of Deputies has largely approved the request of the Government - both the former and the latter - that terrorism be considered one of the crimes for which the International Criminal Court is competent. I would like to recall that there has always been a legal debate around this issue, much more than a political one. I have met before and now with a legal response from people - I am sure they have the same will and interest as we do - a kind of legal apology - probably because their interlocutors at European level say this to them - in the sense that, to the extent that there is no common international definition of the crime of terrorism - there is it at European level but there is no legal apology at world level - it is difficult for the Criminal Court to understand that terrorism is its responsibility. That is a debate that we have had - I have lived it in the European Parliament and also here - but I heard, I think yesterday, that at a meeting of the Union's foreign ministers in Barcelona, Minister Margallo has asked that jihadist terrorism be considered the competence of the International Criminal Court. That is a step, of course, because if turban terrorism - let me put it this way - can be the responsibility of the International Criminal Court, why not beret terrorism? If there is a step in the right direction for jihadist terrorism to be the competence of the International Criminal Court, given the circumstances - because perhaps now the countries of the world consider that they have to do something more than what they have done in this regard - that door of opportunity is opened and I think it is a good time to claim that terrorism, which has no adjectives - is not Basque, French, Christian or Muslim, but rather terrorism - which is a mortal enemy of democracy, can be regarded as the competence of the Criminal Court. What is the importance of the competence of the International Criminal Court? What is the importance of terrorism being considered a crime against humanity, what it has considered genocide, what has been considered in that institutional declaration by the Parliament of Navarre? The important thing about that consideration, as you know perfectly well, is, on the one hand, from an instrumental but not a minor point of view, that the crimes that the International Criminal Court understands do not prescribe; that those crimes that never prescribe, therefore, that there is a guarantee of justice, that justice will be done, that it does not matter when those responsible are arrested, that it does not matter when they are tried, that it does not matter how long from the time the crime was committed until the person responsible for that crime is made available to justice, because the crimes for which the International Criminal Court is competent, as I say, never prescribe. This is an important issue to make reparation, of course, so that there is no impunity, so that the victims feel protected to the end. In addition, the proclamation that terrorism is the responsibility of the International Criminal Court, that the court acts on the most horrendous crimes of humanity, would prevent anyone from appealing to such crimes for political reasons today and forever. It has that political value. How to appeal to political reasons?, how to appeal to political criteria?, how to politically argue about a crime that is considered by the most horrendous of humanity, so much so that it is, as I say, the competence of the International Criminal Court? These two considerations make it important, very important, that this path has been opened in the Parliament of Navarre, this institutional declaration, that this path has also been opened at European level to the dawn of the situation of jihadism, to the thread of the need for jihadist terrorism to have a greater consequence, a greater persecution and a greater affront because it attacks democracy itself. It is precisely this way that opens up the possibility - I understand, I will listen to the minister with great interest - that what had so far been paralysed here, that request before the European Criminal Court, will open the way. In this institutional declaration of Navarra, which was preceded, as I initially said, by a request from the Dignity and Justice Association, a resolution adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations of 16 December 2005 is repeatedly cited as a doctrine - to endorse that request -. It is not necessary to read it to your ladies and gentlemen - the Minister of the Interior, who is also going to answer me, knows it perfectly well - because what that resolution adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations does, which sets out basic principles and guidelines on the law of victims of gross violations and international law, is that, in addition to establishing what such violations are, it calls on Governments to act in defence of those rights which the Assembly recognizes. Not only - I insist - does he recognize rights, but he calls on the Assembly's interlocutor governments, implementing arms in the positive sense, to act in defence of those rights. There is no need for further explanation as to why this initiative is taking place, why this question to the Government and why we can then draft the motion, and I hope that it will be adopted next week. I say I hope I don't have to give any more explanations, I don't have to convince anyone, because I understand that the Minister of the Interior - it's not a statement but how I really understand it - is in the same position that I or I can be in the same position that he can be. I understand that we do not have to convince ourselves of the need to do this and we only have to convince ourselves of the possibility of doing so now, of not waiting any longer, of doing so and of urging the International Criminal Court to introduce this crime among its members. We must also act and give a signal from the Congress of Deputies that accompanies such a positive signal as that given by the Navarro Parliament. We democrats, democracy, owe it all to the victims, who have been the real parapets. If there were no people willing to defend the law, democracy and plural society, to defend it to the extreme of dying defending it, we would not be here today talking about these things that we talked about a minute ago, which we will be talking about tomorrow and which we have been talking about all our lives. If they had not been there, if they had not been the shields of democracy, we would not now live in a democratic country. We therefore owe it to them; we must act, we must take a step further, we must send a message and, in addition to delivering a message, we must act seriously to protect their rights. He knows the minister and his ladies and gentlemen that at the moment there are more than 300 unresolved ETA crimes in Spain, which are one third of ETA crimes, many of which are about to be prescribed. Avoid prescribing, getting justice done, and that the account of what has happened, what terrorism has done, and what the Democrats as a whole have suffered, and the victims in particular, do not write it down by the victims, not by those who have caused the victims, but by democratic society and particularly by the victims. And that requires recognition of the victims and a framework that protects them and gives us the opportunity to write the truth, the story of the truth and the democratic truth. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Díez, I agree with your honor that on March 17th, with the institutional declaration adopted by the Board of Spokesmen of the Navarra Foral Parliament, it was a good day, a great day for the Democrats and a bad day for the murderers and for whom for so many years they have looked elsewhere, or who have spooked or encouraged them. I hope that today, 15 April, it will also be a step further along that path that has begun since the Navarra Foral Parliament on the path on which we want to bring all the democrats together. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the processing of that institutional declaration in the Navarra Foral Parliament had two virtues, which I cannot fail to point out, that it lacks the initiative that you have defended here. I say this without a spirit of confrontation, because I have listened to it carefully and, as you will see throughout my presentation, it is clear - and I am well aware of this - that we agree with the objective. I believe that all democrats should agree and I trust that we will, but we all know that forms and procedures are very important so that we can achieve, at the right time and in the right way, that objective which we certainly share, in line with what has been established by that institutional declaration which is the cause of this interpellation which has been defended a moment ago by your lordship. He said that one of the virtues of which I do not believe his initiative is that it was consensual among all the political forces that supported it: the Union of the Navarro People, the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Navarre - they were against all the others, that we know who they are -; in short, a clear majority of the Foral Parliament of Navarra. Of the three political forces that made such an institutional declaration possible, none of them had an inappropriate fatherhood for the purpose of achieving the desired goal. On the other hand, that statement was clearly institutional and, therefore, removed from any electoral and party connotation, and this is the second virtue of which in my opinion is lacking - let me say so, Mrs Díez, with all due respect - your initiative. I do not want to insist on this, I repeat, because today I would like to try to ensure that, from this question, next week, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are able to build an agreement that is in line with the objective that I insist we share. Certainly, as Mrs Díez has said, the Dignity and Justice Association, with its president, a victim of terrorism, Daniel Portero, at the front, has been doing a commendable job in the legal battle against the actions of the terrorist network of ETA. In recent months, it has promoted a new legal path, with the aim of calling ETA crimes acts of genocide. I know that the legal approach is based on very technical, serious and complete work. This line of work that the Association Dignity and Justice has been developing, with its president, Daniel Portero, at the head, has two important and complementary aspects. The first, as it cannot be otherwise, is the legal sphere. In it I would like to highlight and recall that the Central Court of Instruction number three of the National Court is investigating precisely this key issue. Obviously, an eventual agreement that we have reached in this House is very important, because it would not cease to be the manifestation of the political will of the institution in which the national sovereignty and the legitimate representation of the Spanish people lies - therefore, it has enormous political value - but there is a legal sphere, and in Spain we live in a state of division of powers and we should bear in mind that reality. Judgement No. 3 of the National Court is investigating, I insist, this key issue: whether ETA terrorist acts can legally be considered genocide crimes. We are therefore in the midst of an open, ongoing judicial investigation, on which, of course, the Government cannot but show its respect and, in any case, ensure that it has all the tools necessary to bring its investigations to a successful conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done this and we are doing this: to promote the investigations that are being carried out in this summary by the information services of the Civil Guard and the National Police Corps, which have transferred to the court, as your honor knows, very comprehensive and comprehensive reports. Our security forces and bodies, the National Police and the Civil Guard, are precisely the ones who know the strategies, objectives, methods and procedures that terrorists have developed throughout their macabre history. Therefore, they are the best positioned - not the only ones, but the best positioned for these purposes - to offer the judicial authority the elements necessary to substantiate the corresponding decision. These reports have already been handed over to the judicial authority and reflect, as it could not otherwise be, a reality that we have suffered for many years in all of Spain, in a very special way in the Basque Country and in the Foral Community of Navarre: the existence of a terrorist organization that murdered and extorted and that, extending its crimes, sought to terrorize the citizens as a whole, but with a special focus on a sector of that society against which most of its attacks and violent activities were directed, at least during a stage of its macabre history, because it was another stage in which - they picked it up in the title of its presentation, terrible title, rubrica of that presentation - they fought for the socialization of suffering and terror. Under this strategy of socializing suffering and terror, they intended to impose on society as a whole their totalitarian and exclusive project. One of ETA's proclamations at the time of the establishment of democracy in Spain suffices as an example, and I quote it textually: Either they leave Euskadi or run the risk of being gradually but inexorably eliminated, one by one or in a group. ETA. This explicit threat clearly sums up the macabre objective of the terrorists, a threat which they carried out by implementing a programming of murders which precisely sought the elimination of their political-ideological opponents or their abandonment from the Basque Country or from Navarre, in which, logically and in both cases, the families of the victims, killed or not, were forced to leave their own land and try to start a new life elsewhere, often lacking the necessary resources. An article by lawyer Miguel Ángel Iglesias, published on April 9, collected a number of the macabre claims with which terrorists sought to justify their criminal actions. These various demands had as their common factor the elimination of the political adversary, who was killed not because he had abandoned his people or his land before the consideration of ETA, in his own delusional justification, to classify the non-nationalist Basques as a sub-concept of the Basque people and to consider that, as such, they should not continue living in the Basque Country, but because it was necessary to eliminate, I insist, those who opposed what they intended, which was to impose, I repeat, their totalitarian and exclusionary project through socialization, that is, the generalization of suffering and terror to all those who opposed what they intended. I believe, however, ladies and gentlemen, that today, 15 April 2015, we can say that, despite the immense pain and suffering caused, they have not achieved their objectives. The Basque Country continues to be institutionalized in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, Navarre remains the Foral Community of Navarre and Spain remains Spain, a democratic and legal State of which, together with other autonomous communities and cities, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the Foral Community of Navarre, and both with their historical, political, institutional, specific and differentiated identity. And they have failed to do so thanks to the strength of Spanish society and the rule of law as a whole, with all the powers, thanks to international cooperation, to the ethical example of the victims, who never fell into the temptation to take justice by their hand, precisely because they trusted that the rule of law would do justice to them. I have a duty to remember that at the forefront of the struggle, which has triumphed, of the democratic and right-wing State to defeat these terrorists have been the State Security Forces and Corpses, the Civil Guard and the National Police. Three hundred and fifty civilian guards and police have died killed in that battle, and I do not count the wounded, the injured or the enormous material damage they have caused, but three hundred and fifty civilian guards and national police - dead, murdered, I repeat - have given their lives so that today we can enjoy our freedom. Now that we have policely defeated ETA we have many battles ahead, we are not finished. We have won great battles; war - let me express it - we have not won it yet. The battle of the story is the battle that opens now and we are facing it with the same determination with which we have fought against terrorist barbarism. He knows very well that the battle of the story is fundamental. We must preserve the memory, the dignity, the justice, the historical truth of what happened in the face of interested stories that have nothing to do with the interested ones who are promoting the memory of forgetfulness, surely because if they looked face to face at the truth of what happened they would have to lower their sight; we must preserve the truth of the story of what happened without equidistance between victims and murderers and with the ethical reference of the victims as our breath and our impulse to achieve it. In this line of considerations, Your Honor, the consideration as genocide of ETA barbarities will clearly contribute to putting terrorists in their historic place and also, as I said, those who vittorated them and even supported their actions. I began by pointing out, as your honor, the institutional declaration of the Foral Parliament of Navarre. I would like to say that I hope that from here to next Tuesday or the day on which the foreseeable motion following this inquiry is discussed, we can arrive at a consensus in this House, in the Congress of Deputies, at least similar to that reached in the Foral Parliament of Navarre. I obviously offer you the availability of the Government and, for what I have spoken to the parliamentary group that supports you, also the will of the People's Parliamentary Group. Let us all be able to achieve accessions, which are very convenient and necessary, so that we can talk about a genuine manifestation of the political will of this House. We would therefore also like to open up to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which, within the framework of the Navarra Foral Parliament, joined and made possible with its votes this institutional declaration. If we do, next week or the next day we can say that that day, like last March 17, has also been a great day here in the Congress of Deputies. It will be a day when freedom will have triumphed, on which the historical truth will have triumphed, on which the Democrats will have triumphed and the murderers and those who have thrown them out for too many years will have been defeated. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u219	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for your clear will for consensus, as it could not be otherwise. I know that you do not care who presented the initiative, but that we agree on it. That's the important thing. We are in the house where consensus is built or should be built, and that is what Parliament is for. I mentioned earlier in my speech two previous initiatives, which had a similar objective: that the crimes of terrorism were the responsibility of the International Criminal Court. We were able to build consensus in that case. In the first legislature, the IX, I was alone, I introduced her alone and we had a majority. In the second we were five, we introduced it and we had a majority. Why? Because we are talking about a matter on which we basically agree. That is why, as I believe we basically agree, I am absolutely convinced that we will build consensus on the text of the motion and no one will care who initially presented the initiative. Yes, Minister, I fully agree with you on the need to do justice, that there is no impunity, that crimes never prescribe and also to make the fair account, the truth account. Without a righteous account, without a true account, there will be no true justice. If the story was written by the criminals, the victims would never be able to say that justice has been done. There are 858 crimes, 858 victims of ETA; a third of them - as I said before - are victims whose killers are unknown, almost 300 cases of untrialed crimes. That requires that there be no impunity and that they do not prescribe murder. For memory, for our children, for our grandchildren, for those who live today, the truth needs to be written. Hannah Arendt, when she returned from her American exile, found that in Germany - she said - the story was written as if it were versions, as if there were several stories to tell, and she undertook to tell the story, the real story, what happened there. That's what belongs to us. In addition to changing laws, in addition to persecuting murderers, in addition to putting them at the disposal of justice, it is up to us to write history, and it is up to us to prevent history from being written by criminals. That's the real repair we have to do. I think we have the will and we have the tools to do it. So what we have to do is get to it and do it. We have to build consensus, of course, from here to Tuesday and from Tuesday to Thursday, until the day we vote. We must find a text containing what you have said, Minister, what I have said and what you will say, I am sure, the vast majority of speakers when the subject is put to debate and vote, what we have said on previous occasions when we have spoken about this issue. I know that minor issues will not separate us, because it is important that we comply with our obligation, build that consensus and make that reparation. I end with another appointment that summarizes everything we intend to do. Minister, this was a history of indignity and must end up being a history of the dignity of the Democrats and the dignity of the victims. The horror, the terror, the crimes, the soullessness of those who have perpetrated them and those who have supported and justified them cannot be understood. As Primo Levi said, since understanding is impossible, remembering is a duty. Remembering is telling the truth, telling the story and doing so reparation. I am sure that next week we will agree on how to remember our victims and how to write their story that is nothing but the story of the true heroes of democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Díez, as your honor has said very well, we can disagree in many things or in few, but basically, in the main, in the main, we agree. So let's get to the task of getting another March 17th in the Congress of Deputies. We must go on our way in many other areas which converge with the same objective that you have set in the question raised by your lordship and in my intervention, as a manifestation of the will of the Government of the nation, for example, in relation to the memory of the victims. As his lordship knows, on 23 and 24 March we had the opportunity to attend in Vitoria, with the presidency of the President of the Government, the inauguration of the renovation works of what will be the future headquarters, Memorial Center of Victims of Terrorism, created by the Law on the recognition and comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism, approved by consensus of the whole House at the end of the last legislature, in its article 57. This centre will have among its functions the investigation, memory and construction of a true story, clearly identifying the existence of murderers, of individuals and organizations that supported them and also, of course, the existence of that terrorist strategy of attempted elimination that it opposed or simply disagreed with. We have the will to do so, with a genuine sense of state, that is, with consensus, and we are working in that direction. The opinion of the committee of experts belonging to different political sensitivities demonstrates this desire for consensus which the Government wishes to seek, in this case, because it is within its specific, but not exclusive, competence through the Ministry of the Interior. I recommend reading this opinion because, although it is not binding, the Government has expressed its willingness to follow its considerations and recommendations, as it is made by people who, from the political, ideological and professional cross-cutting, have in common a high scientific and ethical quality. It is a document of extraordinary value and we will follow its guidelines and recommendations from the conviction that, by doing so, we will be right, inter alia, because we will do so with consensus. Alongside this memorial centre, I would like to recall some things that have to do with the necessary and due attention to the victims of terrorism. The fact that the same Secretary-General of the United Nations, on 11 June, referred to Spain, putting it as a reference to the legislative corpus that we have adopted among all to protect and assist the victims of terrorism, must serve us all as legitimate pride and encouragement in furthering that path. Those days were attended by the Director of the Counter-Terrorism Committee of the United Nations Security Council in Vitoria and defined Spanish legislation as the most advanced of the States members of the United Nations. We have done many things; we have to continue to do many more, but the road that we have travelled supports that we must be able - and we will be able - to achieve the objective that we intend to achieve right now. Of course we will not stop while there are unclarified cases, unclarified terrorist acts, unsolved murders, without prejudice to the recognition that, as is evident, the law determines it and the last word is justice. ETA crimes without judicial resolution are a priority for the Government and, in particular, for the Ministry of the Interior. We're working one day, yes, and another day, too. Yesterday - you know - the United Kingdom agreed to the extradition of the Troitiño era. Today, under an OED, a European arrest and surrender order issued by the Spanish National Court, the French authorities have handed over to another stage which was condemned for attacks carried out a few years ago. We are constantly working, and in this legislature, Your Honor - I would like to remind the House because it is important to know - that thorough work of the State Security Forces and Bodies is allowing, whenever possible, to resolve cases that were not closed or reopen them with the provision of new evidence. I can talk, among many other examples that I might be able to, about the arrest in Mexico of two historic ages that acted in the 1980s, or of that of commando Izarbeltz, who acted in the first two thousand years. And he could cite many more, in addition to the 132 detainees for their relationship with ETA in what we have in the legislature and made available to the courts in France, Mexico, Brazil, Venezuela, Italy and the United Kingdom. It is the evident proof, beyond wishes and words, that we are working in that line. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we have done other things that I believe are good for the objective we share, that is to prevent the imposition of the interested account of what happened in the face of the story of historical truth. We have passed a legislative reform to make more effective the embargo on property of terrorists who have failed to meet their civil liability for terrorist actions. We have also reformed the law to prevent terrorists who have not repented or satisfied compensation to their victims from benefiting from the aid that society provides to prisoners who are released from prison after their sentence has been served. The draft law regulating the exercise of a high office, which prevents persons with a criminal record for terrorism from being a high office, is under way. Of particular relevance, as your ladies and gentlemen know - I am sure they share it - is to prevent terrorists from being teachers or educators of our children. They are legal reforms that have as their common denominator - I insist - to remove the scourge of terrorism to its deepest roots, that the historical truth of what has happened emerges from these roots, so that in this way, in compliance with the inspiring principles of the Act on the recognition and comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism - memory, truth, dignity and justice - a free and peaceful coexistence can be built on solid foundations. It will not be free and peaceful if it is not a worthy coexistence, and it cannot be worthy if it is not based on the story, on the knowledge of the truth, of what has historically happened. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u223	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u224	We went on to discuss the motions resulting from the inquiry that were pending yesterday. I would like to remind your ladies and gentlemen that they will vote on Thursday. First of all, we are discussing the motion following an inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left on the current situation and prospects for the future of the military bases for joint use in our country. For your presentation and defence, Mr. Centella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group has tabled a motion, which stems from the debate that we had in this House weeks ago, which has five points that are divided into two blocks. The first four points refer to the concept of bases in general. That is where our proposal is clear. The fifth refers to a specific employment situation, which is suffered by workers at the base of Morón. [[The Lord]] I'll start at the end. It is very clear - we have always defended it - that our position is contrary to the basics and in favour of a new model of defence, but I want to start by saying that the labor relations on the bases are very significant and go beyond the strictly labor ones. I'm going to read you a part of the annex that deals with labor relations on American bases in our territory. Article 2.3 states that the Spanish Ministry of Defence, in consultation with the forces of the United States of America and assuming their interests, will negotiate with the representatives of the local labour force; that is, it is the Spanish forces that assume the interests of the forces of the United States of America. Below, in case there is any doubt, comes to point out that the lack of agreement in the negotiations between the Spanish Ministry of Defence and the staff representatives... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u226	Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u227	I continue to read the paragraph. He said that the lack of agreement in the negotiation between the Spanish Ministry of Defence and the representatives of the local labour force could not be subject to arbitration or judicial decision. Finally, in order not to extend further the reading, I read another paragraph, the third paragraph of article 8, which states that the Government of the United States of America, its armed forces, its units, its agencies or units and the members of such forces shall not be subject to proceedings before the Spanish courts, promoted by the local labour force or by any person previously employed by the forces of the United States of America, on the basis of claims arising from their employment or the use of their services. If you think this is sovereignty, someone will explain it to us. It is very clear that these are not joint bases, they are nothing more or less than the delivery of Spanish territory to a foreign power. That's the basis of the bases. I have read it - I can give it to you later, since the spokesman for the People's Group has not listened to me - what the treaty says, which clearly subordinates Spanish interests to the interests of the United States within its own bases. Therefore, we are facing a situation of neo-colonialism, which has also been wanted to sell in the territory, a territory very punished by unemployment, playing with a real situation of despair, promising gold and Moorish. It was said that the anti-missile shield meant work, it meant employment, it meant wealth; well, the reality is the opposite: there are fewer workers on the bases right now than before the ships arrived; there are fewer workers at this time than when there were fewer soldiers from the United States. Therefore, the expansion of the Rota base has no longer involved employment, it has no longer involved employment that the base of Morón has become a bridgehead to other operations elsewhere in the world. Let them not deceive us any more the Andalusians, which is not true, which does not involve more wealth; on the contrary, it has meant more unemployment and more job degradation. With this introduction I wanted to show that we are not talking about taking advantage of the foundations to create wealth, but on the contrary. The first points of our motion raise a new model of international relations, a new model in which the military bases make no sense, because it is not true that they are to defend our territory, it is not true. At the moment the world needs a new model of international relations and terrorism must indeed be combated wherever it is, but experience has shown us that since 11 September they have failed to do so. Sometimes we will have to change tactics or strategies, because so far they have failed and now there is more terrorism than you said you were fighting ten years ago. So, something is doing wrong. Are they realizing that war and bases generate more terrorism? I have heard here this morning that there is a democratic state in Libya. Does anyone believe that there is a democratic state in Libya today? If today there is not even a state in Libya. Do you realize that with your policy of aggression we are going to more terrorism and more violence? We believe that we must change and move towards another model of international relations in which war no longer brings us war. Sometimes you have to start thinking that peace, dialogue, cooperation and solving people's problems wherever you are is what can begin to change the dynamics of humanity. We are not fools, we know that there are problems and that we must solve them, that there is tension and that we must solve it, that there is terrorism and that we must put an end to it. We are not illusions or people who want to live in an ideal world that does not exist. No, what we want is to change our strategy because we've been set up. It is not true that the American bases in Spain are joint bases. I have read to you the part of the treaty which clearly states that the Spanish Government takes up the defence of the interests of the United States against the Spanish workers. It's in writing and you've signed it and you've initialed it. The Spanish Government must defend its workers and allow them to have at least the same rights as the other Spanish workers, because if not, those bases will be no more or less than Spanish territory but under foreign domination. That is why we want the two blocks of our motion to be voted on separately. The first block is the definition of our security policy and the second block is in which we try to defend the workers because, I repeat, they have the same right as any other Spanish worker to apply Spanish legislation to them and that it is not an island of impunity, as is currently the case in the bases of Rota and Morón. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. We support the Socialist Group's amendment. Mrs Pozuelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion put forward by Mr Centella on behalf of the Plural Left allows me to analyse the situation of the Spanish bases and, more specifically, the situation at the base of Morón and the change in use, functions and nature that the United States Administration is currently demanding. After two years of temporary authorizations by the Government of Spain to comply with the request of the Department of State for Security to increase the number of troops and aircraft for new missions in North Africa, the United States Administration requests to make this situation permanent and to expand its functions. Ladies and gentlemen, progress that we do not share at all the general principles on which the motion we are debating is based, which calls for the denunciation of the bilateral agreement between Spain and the United States and the closure of the Spanish bases for joint use, since we believe that they are an essential instrument within our country's security and defence strategy, with our integration into a global security system and our membership of NATO, especially in view of the growing instability and cross-border threats in North Africa and the Middle East. That is why we have tabled an amendment calling for information and transparency from the Government on the open negotiations with the United States for the creation of a new protocol in the current bilateral convention. Firstly, the establishment and definition of Spain's needs and interests when authorising the new uses of the Morón base, so that these are guaranteed in the new protocol. Secondly, we consider it essential that, in the decisions to be taken in the face of a crisis situation, Spain and the United States should act as partners and avoid unilateralism, since that would mean a very clear regression in the Spanish autonomy and sovereignty enshrined in the 1988 Convention on Cooperation for Defence, which placed Spain on an equal and respectful footing, transforming what had hitherto been subordinate relations into relations between allies based on trust and the common interests of the two countries. Thirdly, the inexcusable demand that these negotiations and the agreements to be reached should ensure the permanence and stability of the jobs and services traditionally carried out by civilian workers at the base of Morón since 1972. In recent years, 240 workers have been laid off by being replaced by US personnel as the strength and tasks and services at the base increased. Ladies and gentlemen, in April 2013, the Government authorized the temporary one-year deployment of 500 marines and eight aircraft to respond to rapid operations in response to crisis situations in Africa following the serious attacks of Benghazi and instability in the Sahel, Maghreb and the new field of action of jihadist terrorism. The following year, in April 2014, the Government of Spain was again requested to increase its strength and to extend for an additional year the increase and presence of up to 1,100 marines and 10 aircraft. The authorization of the Government of Spain no longer referred to specific actions, but - I read literally - to the new security challenges on the African continent, which require maximum cooperation in order to maintain the security of Spain and the United States as a contribution to international security and the maintenance of peace. The authorization of deployment would - the Council of Ministers agreed - allow it to be used for security cooperation missions in Africa. But, ladies and gentlemen, neither in 2013 nor 2014 - although we already saw the need for the continuation of these deployments - the Minister of Defence was pleased to report to Congress, despite the repeated requests of our parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality we have today is that the base of Morón is, from a strategic point of view for the United States, an African base together with Djibouti and Niger and its strategic value in the face of new threats in Africa increases once the United States has definitively ruled out the installation of its own base in Morocco. In December 2014, it is the last request, the United States Government requests Spain to grant the indefinite nature of the new role of the base and the increase in strength. On 23 January, the Council of Ministers authorised the opening of negotiations for the amendment of the convention for the indefinite deployment of a military force at the base of Moron. Mr President, our amendment raises, first of all, the need for the House to know the terms of negotiation between the two administrations for the amendment of the convention. In addition to the informal consultations that may have taken place, we believe that, prior to the signing of the amendment protocol, the Foreign and Defence Ministers must appear together to explain the terms of the negotiation and the possible agreement. This new protocol must have the greatest possible consensus in the House, and for this, as I said earlier, greater transparency, information and negotiation is necessary. Secondly, we believe that the new protocol should clearly contemplate the authorized uses of the base without at any time implying a loss of Spanish sovereignty and genuinely responding to the national interests of our country for its security and defence. Finally, we consider it inexcusable that in the negotiation and signing of the convention the permanence of jobs is agreed, as I said earlier. The increase of the new troops requested can be expected to reach the 3,000 marines resulting from this deployment of a permanent force, which must also translate into economic and labour benefits for the Spanish workers and for the peoples of the region of Morón, in Seville: Arahal, the Viso del Alcor, Morón de la Frontera, El Coronil and Alcalá de Guadaira.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u230	Your Honor, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u231	I'm finishing up, President. Since 2011, 240 workers have lost their jobs. The response of the Government of the nation so far has indeed been a failure. As I said earlier, we believe that this should be considered in this negotiation, so we hope that the workers' problems can be heard by the People's Group and by the Government and that now, which can and do have the capacity to give them a solution, they will be given it so that the workers of the base and those of the Seville region can obtain greater benefit. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Pozuelo. Position fixing. Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Centella, the labour dispute at the base of Morón is serious and serious. It happens in a similar way at the base of Rota; in fact, tomorrow the representatives of the workers come to meet with several groups, I suppose also with theirs. What is happening is the replacement of civilian personnel by American personnel just at a time when the activity of the base of Morón - as in Rota - is increasing due to the new security guidelines that the United States has approved for North Africa and the creation of a rapid response contingent. It seems to us that as a labour dispute it is serious enough that it is a reason for debate in itself and not that it is used in a way, in our opinion, unintelligent and unwise to question the whole of the Spanish security umbrella globally. It seems to us that the Spanish Government - and we had the last test yesterday at the meeting of Pedro Morenes with the head of the Pentagon - is not pressing enough or working hard enough to ensure that this labour dispute is resolved in the most favourable way possible for Spanish civilian personnel and that pressure must be put on this. And it seems to us, I insist, unintelligent and unruly to question the entire security system to take advantage of the Pisuerga passing through the base of Moron. Our general view of the American bases is in fact almost the opposite of what you have. That existence of the United States bases in our country is, at least in part, a consequence of the lack of a European defence policy and not the cause. That is to say, if Europe were willing to bear the costs of its own defence, the United States would probably have less interest; in fact it has less and less budget to finance the European bases, and I refer to the appointments of authority. Robert Gates, the former Secretary of Defense, said in July 2011, and I quote literally: If the current dynamics of declining defence spending in Europe are maintained, future US political leaders, those who did not experience the Cold War, can begin to be reluctant to cover in Europe the maintenance of security in their surroundings via NATO. That is to say, part of the problem of insecurity in Europe, for example, the current instability in North Africa, is being borne by the United States via NATO and is being borne by the Europeans. What you believe to be an unacceptable concession of territory and national sovereignty is basically a partnership in defence that we probably need more than we should reject, and in fact Europe must think about contributing more to its own security. Moreover, if Europe - and the same goes for Spain - contributed more to the global security system, it would also have much more negotiating power to propose the dismantling of the US presence in the region. This is, very briefly, our position on security and on the United States' cooperation in security in Spain, in security in Europe and with its own presence, in short, in the United States. Having said that, as we believe that the labour dispute deserves specific attention, I would ask for the point vote. There is a great disparity in the proposal between the different points, not only in the proposals themselves - some seem good to us, others do not - but in the political rank of the proposals themselves. For example, point 1 - I do not have time to stop at all - in which you propose directly to denounce the bilateral agreement signed with the United States to convert the bases of Rota and Morón into civilian facilities, we simply do not think it is welcome. We agree that there has to be a debate on the American bases in Spain because there has not been in depth and seriously in the last thirty years but it cannot be done with a point of a motion, right? It seems to us that, in fact, the very approach that this motion makes is the reflection of a country that has no overall vision and has no perspective on the role it wants to play in the international sphere. Moreover, a direct denunciation of these conventions would not only damage our relations with the United States but would leave Spain's international position in general very weakened and discredited, and in a situation of enormous fragility in the face of the new and very real security threats that exist in the Sahel, in North Africa, and so on. On other points, such as ensuring that the use of the bases is made in legal terms, we obviously agree that the law is being enforced. With regard to avoiding the use of public facilities for illegal operations, we agree that the law is being enforced. And above all, point 5 - with this I am finished, Mr President - we enthusiastically support it and we think that this should have been the point and the effective focus of this motion: to intervene actively in defence of the Spanish workers before the concessionary company of the base of Morón and of the American government. That is another point that we would vote on. It is also the crux of this motion and should probably be the first and not the last from our point of view. In conclusion, it is a legitimate labour claim that we are prepared to support but that under no circumstances does it seem to us that it can be used in such a derogatory way to question the entire Spanish security policy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. Mr Xuclà then spoke on behalf of the Catalan Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Centella, it is always a parliamentary pleasure, deliberate and habitually disagree with you on foreign policy and defence, and I will not disappoint you this time because we will also - and loyally - disagree. I say this because in the explanatory statement of this motion you begin by saying that NATO is an obsolete vestige of the Cold War and we Europeans, who very unfortunately in 1945 lived in a dictatorship and in an autarchy, are people with memory about what Normandy represents and the fall of totalitarianism. We Europeans remember how NATO was a basic instrument for the fall of other totalitarianism with the collapse of the Soviet Union, with which, ladies and gentlemen, we are atlantists, we do not consider that an alternative model has to be sought, although we are not of contract of unconditional adherence to the policies of the other Atlantic axis, of the other part of the Atlantic Ocean. But, ladies and gentlemen, NATO has been a useful instrument during the Cold War, NATO has taken on some European irresponsibility in the war of the late 1990s in the Balkans, and Western politics has responded to what was very misguided from 11 September onwards and which is now clearly seen in the fight against jihadism, which is not a war of religions, but rather a war between civilization, democracy and barbarism. Nor can I agree with you when you point out that the United States has an excessive geostrategic interest in increasing its presence in third countries. You know that U.S. foreign policy has pivoted between isolators and interventionists, but precisely if something characterizes the Obama administration, it is that President Obama has not launched any new war on an international scale, but has driven the withdrawal and closure of some wars and of some presences, for example in Afghanistan. Ladies and gentlemen, this policy between allies, this policy between allied armies that defend common values has instruments, and one of these instruments is the military bases. This agreement, which is of 1988 between Spain and the United States, is undergoing a revision. The Government, because of the inability to negotiate, because of the complexity of the negotiation, has recently agreed in the Council of Ministers to extend it for a further year to negotiate a new protocol to the 1988 Convention. But this is an agreement that defines the presence of allied bases, obviously with the co-responsibility of the host country and of the United States, which can be clearly in the future - and this is on the table and is part of the discussion - in Spain, Italy or Morocco, as has been pointed out and as it is in the arrangement. And it does not seem to us negative, according to what was discussed this Monday in Barcelona at the anti-jihadist summit, which welcomed up to 39 foreign ministers from the northern and southern shores of the Mediterranean, that this base - which is also a basis to combat jihadism - is in Spain and not in Italy or Morocco. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not telling you that we are putting forward an attitude of unconditional support, because there have been mistakes and some mistakes of the past explain the situation of the present. The US intervention in Iraq in 2003 helps explain many of the basic mistakes and phenomena of the present, and the Libyan error, in which Britain participated and a foreign policy that is not usually wrong in international politics such as that of France, is also paid. Therefore, I am not going to paint you a perfect world, but I am going to tell you that in the face of the third worldism in foreign policy and defence that you pose to us or the renewed commitment to NATO, we are in favour of the latter. Mr Centella, we are also people of pact and dialogue and we are going to vote in favour of point 5 because we are in favour of the labour rights of Andalusian citizens, who have to have a decent economic impact on the development of the foundations. But it doesn't seem like a good argument to me what you said when you talked about making sure the Andalusians are not mistaken, the United States is no longer rich. Does this mean that if there was an economic benefit, you would be in favour of NATO and politics with the United States? I think we are discussing principles and not economic revenues in international relations. Nothing more and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Mr Ferrer has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u237	Mr. President. Mr. Centella, base off, NATO doesn't! You know I thank you so much for returning me to my youth. The last time I discussed this issue with someone other than you, I had a muzzle on my shoulder. You have spoken on many occasions that both bases are a remnant of the Cold War. Mr. Centella, with all the affection and respect I have for you, the only remnant of the Cold War that we have at this time is your speech. That is a remnant of the Cold War. Allow me to give you some telegraphic considerations for the sake of time. With regard to the workers of Moron, if you are asking me to put the interests of a group of workers, however legitimate they are - which are to a large extent - before the general interests affecting defence and national security, Mr Centella, we will not do so. No sensible government would do that. However, the Spanish Government is fully aware of these interests of the workers and defends them firmly, to the extent that this is one of the reasons why, precisely because of this issue, such important negotiations have not been concluded today. However, this afternoon you are asking me to close the bases because to send humanitarian aid that is done from the port of Algeciras or from the airport of Seville; Morón and Rota only exist because they are military bases. And what would we do with the workers if we shut them down? But it is not just about the workers of Morón and Rota, who would go directly to the street, but what would we do with those workers of the companies that supply both bases? What about Navantia? His brilliant idea can lead us to the loss of 10,000 jobs in Andalusia, approximately. Secondly, as far as questions of substance, philosophy, those which, in your view, justify the closure of the bases, I will quote you textually from your intervention in the inquiry: You know that the only real policy that would lead us to a safer world is to put an end to the main threat of humanity, which is hunger, misery, disease, and to do so since military disarmament and, therefore, since the abolition of the military bases. Is this what you mean by a real policy? Mr Centella, what I have just read, in my modest opinion is not typical of a parliamentary debate, is what one hopes to hear from an aspirant for the title of Mister Universe, but not a parliamentarian. Can you, who is Secretary General of the Communist Party of Spain, ask the government to design national defence and security policy on the basis of a miracle? Because what you're asking is a miracle, Your Honor. [[Mr. Centella Gómez makes negative gestures]] Thirdly, it tells us that we transform Rota and Morón into humanitarian bases from which to send health personnel to conflict zones. Would you send our health personnel to Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan or northern Mali? Mr. Centella, have you seen what they're doing with them? Have you seen what they do with foreigners and Christians in those places? Nor do we have to be surprised: if you believe in miracles, why not fill ships and planes with aspirants for martyrdom? But, of course, don't count on us for that. Fourthly, I used to quote the interpellation. You see as a terrible inconvenience that in Rota a defensive missile shield is installed, and in Moron units dedicated to the fight against jihadist terrorism. You and I cannot agree, because I see nothing but advantages in both matters. [[The Lord]] What inconvenience do you see in having a defensive system that protects our allies and ourselves from a ballistic missile attack? Or what problem does your lordship see in working with our allies in the fight against the main enemy, the main threat of the West and our country in particular? Or does his lordship not know what has happened in Kenya, Paris, New York, London or Madrid? I'd like to know what world he lives in. And finally, they introduce the argument that our sovereignty on the ground is at stake. I'm not going to discuss this because it has no argument. Articles 16 and 24 of the Convention with the United States: Not only are the bases unquestionably of national sovereignty, but also the command of the two, of all the facilities in Rota and Morón. In Rota he sends the admiral Santiago González and, in Morón, General Juanas. Neither one of them sounds very American. [[Mr. Centella Gómez makes negative gestures.-Applause]] In short, and with this I end. Since the Government of Spain is the one defending the interests of the workers of Morón - by the way, today the Americans complain in a note on this subject - the PP is not about the closure of the bases and the loss of thousands of jobs in Andalusia, even if there are among us people praying, for the moment, and while that miracle that you expect occurs, we will trust national security in our systems of international agreements and covenants and, since the sovereignty of our bases is not in question, with all the affection and with all the respect we will vote no to your proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u238	Thank you very much, Mr Ferrer. Mr Centella, there was an amendment. Do you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u239	As a separate vote has been requested, we will vote separately on the points and therefore I cannot accept the amendment because it would be impossible to vote on the amendment and the separate points.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. - the Catalan parliamentary group, on the priorities of the Government to empower the digital economy. [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] [[File number 173/000203]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u241	Motion by the Catalan Group, on the Government's priorities for enhancing the digital economy. [[Convergence and Union]] I give the floor to Mrs Riera to defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion we have tabled is in two directions: on the one hand, to strengthen the Mobile World Capital Foundation, and on the other hand, to focus on the need for policies that accompany the digital transformation that we are experiencing and that contribute to the development of the digital economy. With regard to the first point of the motion, and as we made clear in our inquiry, we are convinced that having as close a tool at the service of digital transformation as the Mobile World Capital, whose most significant event is the Mobile World Congress, is an asset that we must be able to capitalize even more if it can. Mobile World Capital is an instrument at the service of technological and digital development, with a very important tractor effect on the economic fabric, and also a tractor of the cultural change that this transformation requires, and that allows us to advance in the technological and digital transformation of our economy and of our society. The activity of Mobile World Capital, its vitality through the projects that it promotes and develops, demonstrate, both the existing innovative capacity and the scope and dimension of the technological transformation that we live in, and that it forces us to act and to be able to anticipate this revolution as well. All this was once again evident in the recent World Mobile Congress, which has been a further demonstration of the depth, speed and scope of digital transformation, and of the opportunities it creates for citizens, for businesses and for the whole of our economy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that all this forces us to act and manage change, and Mobile World Capital today is one of the most important instruments at our fingertips in the service of change and the momentum of this transformation. Mobile World Capital, as I have demonstrated in my appeal, is a dynamic enterprise ecosystem, a dynamic system of mobile and digital base startups, through the attraction of digital acceleration programs that come from all over the world, a dynamic attraction of talent and human capital, and it certainly contributes to giving more value not only to our startups, but to all of our companies with undeniable economic and social value. And what Mobile World Capital is pursuing is the creation of a hub of innovation and digital mobile knowledge, and contributing with it, among other objectives and from a more strictly economic point of view, to also having a new industrial account. And believe me, ladies and gentlemen, this instrument requires continued support from the various public administrations, parliamentary groups and institutions, and requires resources from the different administrations involved to enable new and different tractor projects to be promoted and also to be consolidated. So far the results show how an ecosystem with a very high innovative and technological value is being created through the technology that is being developed, the startups that are being generated, the companies that participate, and how all this reaches multiple economic sectors and society as a whole. I welcome the Minister's words, in the reply to the question, of qualitative and also quantitative support for Mobile and I thank him, and I hope that the rest of the groups will also be able to support this parliamentary initiative. With regard to the second point of the motion and with regard to the challenges of the transformation to which I referred, as highlighted in the inquiry, we believe and believe that policies and measures are necessary to help companies and society successfully take up the challenges of the technological and digital transformation that we are experiencing. The Government, like the rest of the public administrations, must be a driving force in this change through the measures it promotes and the policies it defines, and that is why we understand and propose in our motion the presentation of a report on an annual basis to generate a constructive debate on the challenges, to make proposals, to adopt measures that must accompany and promote digital transformation, because this transformation, which is structural, ladies and gentlemen, requires a great deal of complicity, also requires a great deal of consensus, and requires the participation and collaboration of the public and private sectors, of the various administrations, and also of Parliament. Taking advantage of the opportunities offered by digital transformation requires designing policies that capture the new interactions of the digital world, requires aligning efforts of the public-private sector, requires betting on education and training, and requires a constant and firm look at Europe, because transformation affects us all and Europe plays a lot in this change. The social and economic impact of this digital revolution is very relevant and involves very profound structural changes in economic and social terms. To our motion the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group have tabled two amendments, which we are grateful for now. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to a compromise which we believe reflects both the objectives of our motion and those of the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which allows and allows us to broaden and enrich the text of the motion by making a specific reference to the momentum of industry 4.0. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, we are also grateful for the constructive spirit, but we are sorry to be unable to accept it, because it does not enter as it is written in the spirit of either the inquiry or the motion, and it raises some issues which, while important and we can share because they refer to instruments of impulse of technological innovation, but of a more local nature, are not part, ladies and gentlemen, of this motion. In any case, we hope that you will understand the reasons for our position, and that beyond that the Socialist Group and also the other groups will be able to join in and vote in favour of this motion, because they cannot fail to share the objectives that we have pursued and that are being pursued. I repeat my previous words. This motion must allow us to add and demonstrate a consensus between the different groups to reinforce everything that the Mobile World Capital Foundation represents, and above all to strengthen a consensus on the importance of the challenges of digital transformation and the firm and decisive stake for a digital economy, and for a very relevant economic and social impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u243	Thank you very much, Mrs. Riera. Amendments have indeed been tabled to this motion. Firstly, Mrs Muñoz has the floor for the Socialist Group and for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u244	Thank you, President. Mrs Riera, we believe that this motion by CiU to promote the digital economy in Barcelona is very unambitious, because of the role that Barcelona should have as the economic engine of Spain, and unambitious because it is limited in the drive required by the digital society, although I must say at the outset that we fully share that the Government must contribute resources to the Barcelona Mobile World Capital Foundation to promote entrepreneurship, mobile and digital telephony. That is why we will vote yes to support projects in the city of Barcelona, but I hope for their motion that they suspect that the PP government will give as clear support as the Socialist government did before 2011 so that Barcelona would become the capital of mobile. It is thus relevant that today Congress urges the government to support us once again as the world capital of mobile, but more ambition is needed to promote the digital economy in Barcelona. Support for the world congress is essential, but not sufficient. The weight of Barcelona, of its metropolitan area, represents l3% of GDP, and Barcelona, because of its industrial weight and because it is a hub of innovation and export, must be considered strategic in the exit from the crisis of the whole of Spain. Our amendment is to add and go beyond what and how, aware that the digital society is not neutral, so we make a number of proposals with which we try to promote opportunities among all people. To boost the digital economy, which is how its motion is titled, our amendment adds support to five more programs in the city of Barcelona, such as the citizenship training project, the e-commerce program for SMEs, the City Council Open Data, business incubation, and the digital business acceleration program. And what do we find? CiU's little ambition in relation to Barcelona and the People's Party's little ambition in relation to digital society policies. In fact, we believe that CiU's call to the Government two times should have been more severe, since the People's Party has no longer had the impetus of the digital society on its agenda as a priority, and this is a serious mistake because it is essential for the competitiveness of the economy, and to equip citizens with tools to have access and opportunities in a much more complex environment. A few days ago the European Union presented the study of the 2015 Digital Economy and Society Index country by country. Spain does not come out badly, but they highlight - as one of our weaknesses - the low levels of digital competence, and conclude that it is an important problem, urging Spain to increase the formation of the citizenry. In short, when right-wing policies to promote technology forget to inform citizens, the economy is damaged. For us it is a matter of justice, but it is also an issue of economics, and I would therefore like to reaffirm the social and economic importance of the formation of citizens because today you will vote not to strengthen these programmes as a way of promoting the digital economy. Mrs Riera, from the cordiality and dialogue that we have always had, when she said that she will vote no to the Socialist Group's amendment I thought: how sad is the role of CiU, ruling Barcelona and Catalonia, when she accepts a low investment or a proposal to the bottom of the Popular Party for Barcelona. CiU will vote against the Government of the State supporting five technology promotion programmes in Barcelona. The question is not whether it is managed by Barcelona Active or mayor, but we urge that projects be supported and that governments look at the formula. The issue is not bureaucratic, but political. The debate is how to promote the digital economy in Barcelona, and if you, Convergence i Unió, accept a proposal to the bottom of the People's Party and a small aid to a foundation or vote for the socialist amendment; if you settle for 3 million euros, because 3 million euros in a global, technological budget of 1 billion are crumbs for Barcelona, and it is little ambition for the city and for its role in the whole of Spain. I would like to remind the House how we speak in Catalonia of CiU: like the game from fish to cove. It is a Catalan expression that means selling itself for a dish of lentils to the Government. Something like that would be the translation. In general CiU makes great nationalist proclamations there and here it then has a very conservative attitude in the pact with the governments of Madrid. Also on this occasion there is little fish in the basket. Do you want the barcelonas and barcelonas to be happy with an aid to the foundation of capital? We want that help, but we think it best to promote the digital economy. Finally, I would like to say that the impetus of the digital economy in Barcelona requires more ambition. It requires thinking about the digital society, which is a more global strategy that contemplates citizenship, SMEs and technological entrepreneurship. That is to boost the digital economy by harnessing its potential to generate opportunities for all people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. The amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party defends it by Mr Fernández Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u246	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed living in times of profound transformation, in which the digital economy presents absolutely new scenarios. I will simply put a figure on the table that many of you will know, but that does not stop being less surprising, and if not surprising, at least invites reflection. In the next four years, according to all relevant official bodies, the digital mobile Internet economy is going to grow by 216% in Spain. Let's think for a moment what all this means. Let us think of other issues that may not be part of the debate that we are developing today, but which have generated controversy in many media, applications such as Uber, services that are posing challenges to public administrations as regulators for the provision of services, as legitimators of the provision of services. It is an absolutely exciting debate that in this House will have to take place throughout the future, but it is clear that these challenges require us to be prepared. How are you prepared to face challenges of these characteristics? We must put specific policies on the table as we do today, but we must also deal with them with a certain attitude. Saul Singer, in his celebrated book Startup nation, the history of Israel's economic miracle, perfectly explains how a country, which in theory for innovation-related issues was a parachute, becomes the world leader in innovation. It does so through an attitude that defines a word in Hebrew - I apologize in advance, because I'm sure I pronounce it wrong -: chutzpah, which means courage, boldness, advance or read the play beforehand. When we adopted the digital agenda for our country in Spain, we also put some chutzpah in our government's key bets. Some data are very hopeful. For example, Spain in FTTH network connectivity had 9 % coverage only three years ago, and today it has 50 % coverage. We have moved from Europe's tail to one of Europe's leading countries. There are therefore a lot of things that are being done very well and that are putting Spain at the forefront of European innovation. If we take into account that the digital economy is the present, it is the future, it is a government bet, we have also had very clear since always that Catalonia is fundamental in that bet, and that organizing the Mobile World Congress could say that it is a blessing for Catalonia and for the whole of Spain. The Government of Spain has been up to it. I will not refer to the speech by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, although I will say that I do now understand why you are being made foxes in the City Hall of Barcelona after having heard it. In any case, I will say that the Spanish Government is contributing EUR 3 million to three incubation programmes for companies that are going to be fundamental to this project. And not only in this, I myself as a spokesperson for innovation and also as a Catalan I had the pleasure to value from the Popular Parliamentary Group the investment of 5,8 million euros of the Government of Spain in the National Center of Supercomputation, in Barcelona. The Spanish Government is clearly committed to innovation, the digital economy, and Catalonia. Therefore our attitude - as Mrs Riera has explained very well - could not be other than that of trying to reach an agreement on a motion of these characteristics. We have achieved this and adopted a compromise text. There is one point that is crucial in this motion: how we work together to get the Mobile World Congress to continue in Barcelona in the next period, from 2018 to 2023. Here, celebrating the agreement and consensus, Mrs Riera, you will allow me to raise other things cordially. I wanted to ask you for a small favor: transfer to your colleagues in Convergence and Unite in the Government of Catalonia and in the Parliament of Catalonia what we have approved here today. Explain it to him, because in the Parliament of Catalonia you can't talk about this. I don't know if they're in a process of transient mental alienation - I don't know if about Kafka, but Kafkian - but there can only be one thing to talk about. What we have done here today, there is impossible; you can already present propositions of nature that are, that is impossible. The speed with which you and I, on behalf of our respective groups, have reached agreement here on such an important matter, is impossible there. The Generalitat de Catalunya also has very important powers to ensure the objective of the Mobile World Congress to continue in Barcelona. You know that we compete with other cities; the great capitals of the world compete with us to make Barcelona the headquarters or not. One of the key parameters for deciding which location is most appropriate is mobility. Thousands of people are coming who need mobility services. Line 9 of metro is basic and has been delayed for many years. It is the competence of the Generalitat of Catalonia - they have already said that this year we forget, and that next year we will already see - and it carries 14 billion euros overcost. Please explain to your colleagues in the Government of Catalonia and the Parliament of Catalonia the agreement we have reached here, and please ask them to spread a little with Line 9. Not only that, but the Generalitat of Catalonia and the Government of Catalonia also have clear and diaphanous innovation skills, and they are causing Catalonia's data on R+D+i, which were always the best in Spain together with those of Navarre, to be the worst in the last two years. We would also have to try there what we did here today. Try to move there the common sense that we have had here today. I will not talk about regaining common sense, because unfortunately there are some who will hardly recover a common sense they have never had, but there are very valid people in all the places you can work with.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u247	Mr. Fernández Alvarez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u248	I'm finishing up, thank you very much. So what we have done here is not a shame, we have to explain it, because we have to work together to get Barcelona to remain the headquarters of the Mobile World Congress. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u249	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández Alvarez. Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Union Progress and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u250	Thank you, Mr. President. We are going to support this motion, we have no problem in doing so even with the compromise amendment that has been agreed with the People's Parliamentary Group, but I do want to say that reducing support for the digital economy to certain events, even if they are as important as Barcelona Mobile World, does not cease to be in our view a vision not only biased, but - as I would say - just one that has prevented the effective development of the digital economy from the regulatory point of view in Spain. It has not been mentioned here and it is a pity that the opportunity has been missed, but it is one of the countries in Europe that, instead of increasing the percentage of GDP in the digital economy during the crisis, has dropped it. Why? Because we have a regulatory and legislative framework hostile to startups, to the development of the digital economy, which is full of access barriers to protect business models that need to be protected, because they have not wanted to adapt to the digital world, etc. In that sense, although it seems to us very good that these kinds of events are supported, of course to believe that the impulse of the digital economy can be reduced to certain events does not cease to be a bulwark error, so we draw attention to it in a sense of course friendly and collaborator - a bit acidic, like the People's Party -. We really need to boost the digital economy because we have a lot to do with it, both in the fight against the economic crisis and in order to get out of the crisis with a different economic model; this is said so many times and is done so little. So let them have our support, but I ask you to take the fundamental issue seriously: that we have a hostile and negative regulatory and economic framework for the development of the digital economy, from a fiscal, labour and administrative point of view, and this needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. Although you have already said this, Mrs Riera, for purely formal purposes I ask you what you are going to do with the two amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u252	As I said in my speech, we cannot accept the Socialist Parliamentary Group's amendment, and we have indeed negotiated an amendment with the People's Parliamentary Group, which we will now hand over. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-04-15-CD150415.u253	Thank you very much, Mrs Riera, that will be the one that will be put to the vote. The meeting was suspended. It was six and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
