ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. Direct and read-only processing of the Third Amendment Protocol to the Convention on Cooperation in Defence between the Kingdom of Spain and the United States of America of 1 December 1988 and its amendments, done at Washington on 17 June 2015. In order to present the agreement and on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Jefferson said that there is no greater talent than not using two words when only one is enough. On 8 July, I answered a question that I was praying: how does the signing of this protocol benefit Spain? I replied that there were three types of reasons: to increase our security, to strengthen our anchor with the United States and to bring welfare and employment to the area near the base. That's exactly the driving thread, the argumental thread I'm going to follow. In the area of security - it has been said many times in this House - it is likely that what is happening in the southern neighbourhood is the most serious threat that Spain has had and has had in many years. I am not going to make a history of the conflicts that have occurred there; they are going to allow me to outline some lines of what has already happened only in terms of the importance it has for what is happening and what can happen. As you know, the jihadist movements, the terrorist movements began a long time ago in Algeria, where there was a war that lasted more than ten years and caused more than 200,000 deaths. From the muds, from the muds of that war arose the so-called Salafist Group for preaching and fighting, which after various mutations changed and became what is now known as Al Qaeda of the Maghreb. In Tunisia, after the revolution that broke out in Sidi Bou Said, various elections took place and a constitution was adopted that was the greatest hope of the Arab Springs. It was ratified in an act attended by the then Prince of Asturias to give an understanding of Spain's interest in the evolution of Tunisia in particular and of the Maghreb in general. In Tunisia, as you know, despite having the most important success story in this saga, there have been two very important attacks: the attack on the Bardo, in which two of our compatriots died, and the attack on a hotel in Susa a few days ago, in which 38 Westerners died, fortunately, no Spanish. In Egypt, the situation is not simple either. After the revolution of Tahir Square that ended with Mubarak, elections were held that won by the Muslim Brotherhood and enthroned Morsi in power, a period that was interrupted by a military coup that brought to power, then ratified with elections, General Al-Sisi. In Egypt at the moment there is also an armed group in the Al Qaeda branch Sinai that threatens the borders between Israel and Egypt and Egypt and Gaza. Mali is even more problematic from the point of view of Spanish interests. The north of Mali, known as Azawad, was no one's land since 2000 and that vacuum was exploited from 2010 and 2011 by terrorist groups that, among other things, kidnapped, as you will recall, two of our compatriots. Spain is currently participating in the training mission of the Malian forces with 122 soldiers. We're the first contributors to that operation. We also participate in the Central African Republic in collaboration with other European countries, in particular France. The most worrying thing that brings us to this house today is the issue of Libya. Following the fall of Gaddafi, a series of armed clashes took place between the three regions of Libya, each populated by more than six or seven ethnic groups, which had been organized into different factions. At present, it is estimated that 1,500 armed groups have at their disposal 20 million weapons for a population of only 6 million. The political situation in Libya, in which our compatriot Bernardino de León, who is today the envoy of UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, is having a very important intervention, is extremely confusing: he has two parliaments and two governments; a Parliament in Islamist court Tripoli, whose term has expired some time ago; and another Parliament in Tobruk, which emerged from a general election subsequently annulled by the Supreme Court. Every effort is being made to form a government of national unity that is in turn legitimized to send a request to the United Nations Security Council - where we sit - to authorize an intervention under Chapter VII that would allow us, in a first phase, to destroy ships engaged in human trafficking and that have produced the tragedies you know, as well as the destruction of the ground installations that serve them to prepare their operations. This has not yet happened and Libya is still a failed state that is serving as the basis for these mafias who are engaged in trafficking in persons to which I referred before and which only last year led up to 170,000 people to the Italian coast. In any case, I quote the situation in Libya because the fact that it brings about here causes the discussion about the temporary deployment before, permanently after, a United States mission; I quote the situation in Libya for that reason and because the most dangerous thing that could happen to Spain is that Libya would become a kind of oil-based Afghanistan, a platform for the export of terrorism to all of North Africa and the Middle East. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that a destabilization of North Africa would translate into a jihadist corridor that would go from the Atlantic to the Indian, where it would partner with Al-Shabaab, the group that operates in Somalia and that also kidnapped two Spanish citizens, and would spread across the South to link with Boko Haram, in Nigeria. I do not think of any greater threat to our country than would result from such a fact. But if it's relatively easy to imagine, it's even more so. You know that from there there have been attacks on Western interests everywhere: from the attack on Charlie Hebdo on 7 January, and to a kosher market where many people died, to the Corinthia Hotel or the murder and beheading of 21 Coptic Egyptians in Libya, a series of horrors that we have to avoid. I insist and conclude this paragraph by saying that Spain's interests are directly affected by what happens in North Africa and that, therefore, ending that threat is in the interest of the whole world, it is in the interest of the West, but of course it is in the interest of Spain. We are talking here about national interests. The second of the pillars on which my intervention is based is the transatlantic axis. I am sure that I will not agree with the amendment that has tabled the amendment in its entirety on my approach, but in any case it is my approach. We believe that Spain's foreign policy, if it wants to move easily through what has been its traditional axis, must have two firm anchors: the European Union - Europe - and the United States of America. It is not a question of reproducing here an old discussion a few years ago of whether Spain is more interested in an Atlantic Europe than a continental Europe. What this government wants and what this parliamentary group wants is a strong Spain in a strong Europe and with a strong alliance with the United States. I would like to stress that, from a security point of view, our relationship with the United States is at present the most important, both from a multilateral point of view, membership of joint organizations, especially the Atlantic Alliance, and from a bilateral point of view; bilateral relations that were reflected from a defence point of view in the 1988 Convention signed by the Government of then President Felipe González, which was amended twice, in 2002 and 2012, to the full satisfaction of the two majority groups in this House. I come to the concrete analysis of the concrete reality, which Gramsci would say, of what we are studying here. On September 11, 2012, the iconic date of their existence, there was an attack on the American Consulate of Benghazi that cost the life of the United States ambassador to that country. The United States is requesting authorization for the temporary deployment of its forces to deal with threats coming from across the Mediterranean, which is approved by the Council of Ministers on 19 April 2013 for 500 infants, 6 transport aircraft and 2 refuelling aircraft. On 7 March, one year later, the authorized temporary deployment is extended in the terms to which I have referred and is used to increase the authorized strength to 850 marines and 17 aircraft. We thus come to what we now care about and is to respond to the request to increase the forces deployed there, first, and second, to make what had been temporary permanent until then. I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this government has - I am sure that the amendment does not - a great deal of satisfaction that what was temporary becomes permanent, because the United States was stalling the possibility of establishing that rapid deployment force in a country that was not Spain, with which our position in the defence of Europe and in the defence of the Atlantic Alliance would have been diminished. What we are discussing here, therefore, are two things: firstly, an increase in the deployed forces to more than 2,000 military personnel and 500 civilians, 2,500 to be exact, and 26 aircraft; and secondly, we are establishing, as I said earlier, the permanent nature of this deployment. The third leg of my speech concerns the economic and fundamentally employment interests in the area. I am not going to get into this too much because that is part of an understanding agreement that is not what we are discussing here. I can explain it if you wish, but you will understand that it is a collateral discussion and that what we are discussing here and what these Courts have to approve is the protocol to which I referred earlier. As I had the opportunity to say in that answer - and then I will return to the subject, if you consider it necessary to discuss collateral issues that deviate from what is the central issue - an investment of some $29 million is envisaged that will necessarily result in more wealth and more employment in the area, as expressly stated in the defence memorandum negotiated by our Ministry of Defence and the United States Department of Defense. I conclude by asking the House to approve the text that we have presented here, insisting that, firstly, it seems to me to be crucial from the point of view of the security of Spain and of the defence of the interests of Spain; secondly, that it is vital to strengthen bilateral anchoring with the United States in a matter that affects us all, and thirdly, that it can only bring benefits in terms of wealth and employment to the adjacent area. I'm completely at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. An amendment to the full refund has been tabled by the Plural Left Parliamentary Group. For your defense, Mr. Centella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have given us an overview of how the expansion of fundamentalist terrorism is taking place in North Africa. It is a description that does nothing more or less than confirm the reality that we are going to put forward in this debate. And it is that years after a policy of combating terrorism through war has been initiated, today North Africa is no safer and there is less terrorism than when this policy was initiated; on the contrary, today it is more insecure and today there is more terrorism. The reality is that the goal that was being sought was not to end terrorism, as I will try to explain later. It is always interesting to discuss with you because we have the impression that we are discussing with an applied official of the United States Department of State, and in this debate you have made an allusion to a paradigmatic element which, moreover, is no coincidence. You have placed the situation in Libya as a fundamental element of your argument. Listening to him has seemed to me that there have been things in which at least the language was not the right one. You were talking about the fall of Gaddafi as if Mr Gaddafi - the Gaddafi who was friends with some, not ours, because we did not receive him when he came to Madrid - would have fallen off the bed one day and disappeared. You cited Libya as a failed state, as if that had been a coincidence. But you haven't said anything about how you got to that situation. He did not say anything about a war that we denounced from this rostrum and that we said he was going to provoke what he then provoked. We told him that the Libyan war was going to bring a failed State and that trying to overthrow his friend Gaddafi in that way was going to provoke more terrorism. You said no, that you were going to bring freedom and security to Libya; you said it from this rostrum to justify what was happening there. Today you come to pose as a firefighter what you did as pyromaniacs. It is true that Libya today is a failed State, but it is you who are responsible. Although failure at all is not, because oil is not failure, oil is in the hands. Therefore, all that was behind that policy was nothing more or less than seizing the natural resources of North Africa. It was not a security policy, but a policy of appropriation of the natural resources of an area of the planet. That is why our amendment as a whole is an amendment to a whole security policy. Although you have done well in your argument, you are not coming today to defend a specific treaty, but a whole security policy subject to interests outside our country, and I therefore consider you an applied official of the Department of State. It is a strategy that is within the framework of the most aggressive military structure that has known the history of humanity, NATO. It is a so-called security policy that does not make us more secure or free and does not defend national sovereignty. Therefore, it is not a security policy. We start, as you did, from a reality. I told you. We can take any date, like that of September 11, that came to change a dynamic. If we stick to our own logic, when that day is declared war on integrist terrorism, the war conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and Libya increase. It's been years and we can take stock. Those territories are not safer today, they are no longer free today, the world is not quieter today, there are no fewer terrorists today. Therefore, we will have to think about what and why. Obviously, the goal was, no more or less, to dominate the natural resources of that area of the planet and put them at the service of the multinationals, and that has been accomplished. Yes, the objectives have been met, but not the objectives that were said by the governments, but those that were hidden after all these aggressions. You - I repeat - have caused a fire. Who caused Libya to be a failed state? Who was it that caused the void? Who caused the situation in Syria? You now come as firefighters, but not as firefighters with a hose of water but with more aggression, and you pose as a solution what we have already seen that has failed. This is the context we are discussing today. Indeed, they are meeting their goals but, in parallel, the number of collateral casualties has increased, militarism has increased, insecurity has increased and have caused today, unfortunately, a greater social base for terrorism than it had been a few years ago. You know that this is not the right way, you know it or your bosses, but you keep keeping it because, really, the goal is another: to secure the domination of North Africa for oil to work. What interests them in North Africa is not people, but economic interests and oil. In the face of aggression and war, there is another policy: negotiation. The agreement that has been reached between the United States and Iran will be more effective in the fight against terrorism than all the bombs you have dropped on Iraq. That's the way. That agreement will do more for peace than all the bombs and military aggressions you have been involved in these years. There is another way, such as to change the role of the United Nations. When is that reform going to take place? When's the disappearance of that anachronistic veto right? When will the role of the United Nations be activated in conflict resolution? When will NATO be dissolved as an instrument of military aggression and replaced by a new international order to work for natural wealth to be used for the development of the poorest peoples? Terrorism has two great breeding grounds: one, poverty and poverty, which curiously suffer in territories rich in natural resources; two, its military aggressions. The reality is that NATO desperation and bombs have created more terrorists than all websites or any incendiary speeches that can be launched. For when only one measuring rod for armed groups? Because we have armed groups that go from being terrorists to being freedom fighters or, vice versa, because of the interests they defend, such as in Libya, Syria and elsewhere, groups that have gone from being freedom fighters, sheltered and financed, to being terrorists when they no longer fulfilled the purposes that interest NATO itself. When can a single measuring rod be used in international relations? When is it going to be made clear that there are friendly, very friendly countries that encourage terrorism, that facilitate weapons and that finance terrorist groups and that they are then good customers or good friends? As I said, this is the context in which today's debate here is focused to expand the military capacity of the base of Moron, and not to defend national security. Obviously, Libya is a failed State. You have created a failed State in Libya that needs to be resolved. They won't solve it this way because they haven't solved it by now. That's right, they'll continue to control and make sure the oil gets to its place. When will we really have a global security policy against terrorism? When are we really going to activate the United Nations? That is the debate we need to have here. Are they going to improve the situation in our country? Not much less. You are going to replace a sadly famous photo - it was told last week - the picture of Las Azores, by a much more collective photo, much more sadly collective, which is the photo of this Chamber voting in favour of this treaty. From tomorrow the picture of Las Azores will be replaced in the subconscious of thousands of people all over the world by the photo of this Parliament making the base of Moron an instrument of aggression. And it will be you - all those who vote in favour - responsible for that photo. Our group won't be in that picture, it wasn't in the picture of Las Azores, nor will it be in this picture. [[Rumors]] Therefore, you here today do not come to defend peace, you come to defend war. You here do not come to make a safer world, you come to make a world, a Spain and a Andalusia more insecure, more in danger and you will be responsible for those who vote in favour within hours. You take out the carrot in the end and come to talk to us in a lesser tone about the benefits it can bring to the area. The truth is that the carrot has already been exhausted, it is true that so far it has worked for them but no longer. You can't say what you said here in Moron because you already know him. What you have said in this rostrum about the benefits you will bring to the area cannot be said there. We can say that the reality today is that at the base of Morón there is a labor situation of conflict that has evidenced how national sovereignty is trampled, how national sovereignty at the base of Morón is not the Spanish one, it is another national sovereignty, how marines are used in front of the pickets of strike, and the Spanish government is silent, and where employment does not grow, but decreases. Marines are increasing and Spanish workers are decreasing. Those benefits which you point out today - and which are not voted on even though there was a minister who undertook to discuss in the treaty this issue, which was not you, but did not - are translated into the reality that when the workers met with the concessionary company a few days ago he came to tell them that the issue does not go with them. It is a company that is obviously not Spanish and is not subject to Spanish labour law despite being Spanish territory and all that does not solve this treaty. It does not solve it because it cannot solve it because it is a treaty of submission, not equal to the same. It is a neo-colonial treaty, not a treaty of international law proper to the twenty-first century. The reality is, therefore, that there are still EREs, that there are still redundancies and that the contracts that have been made are staff who do not come to cover the posts on a permanent basis but that they are only about ninety contracts - much less than the redundancies - and that they are totally insufficient. In fact, the workers themselves have valued at about 1,500 the overtime they have to do until April in order to be able to take on the new job. At this stage, therefore, none of the parties guarantees Spanish workers that something as simple as applying Spanish labour legislation can be done, something as simple as having the same rights as other workers, and sees that they have been cut by their Government. Even that level is not reached at the base of Moron, so the current staff of Moron remains fearful of an uncertain future as our Government remains unclear in this defence and obviously cannot be so because the treaty does not allow it. As I said, our group has tabled an amendment to this part as a whole, but it is an amendment to its entire security policy. I would like at least to acknowledge that Gaddafi did not fall off the horse, that the war was provoked, that security was not taken to Libya, that that failed State which is Libya today has responsibility and that we therefore have to put out the fire that you have created. And there we would be, putting out the fire with water hoses, not with gasoline hoses, which would cause more fire. We must hold an international conference for the security of North Africa, an international conference that will solve the problem of terrorism and in which natural resources - oil and gas - are equally placed on the table to see how the situations of misery in those countries are ended. The insecurity caused by an aggressor State such as Israel, which also influences, must be brought to an end, and the situation in Syria must be brought to an end. All this should be put on the table at an international peace conference, not at the NATO table, and that is our proposal, our alternative: to go to international cooperation within the framework of the United Nations at a major peace conference that serves the development of the peoples of North Africa, because that is what they need, development, and not bombs. And on the way, if we get the base of Moron to be a base of solidarity and instead of sending marines to those territories to send doctors, we will have won something. Indeed, the foundations must be maintained, but in order for them to be bases of peace and solidarity that send doctors, teachers and co-operators, not bombs and marines. That is, Mr. Minister - Mr. Representative of the United States Department of State - our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. We then turn to the interventions of the groups. Firstly, for the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking from the seat because the sitting is very long and I think this can be summed up quickly in two words. Our vote is going to be favorable, despite the fact that the issue of the American bases in Spain is of infamous memory, not only at the beginning, for the Basque nationalists but also for the Republicans in general, because it was precisely in this way that in 1953 the Americans took the first step to include in international society the Franco regime, which was later confirmed by the visit of President Eisenhower, who was received in Torrejón by dictator Franco. Those Madrid pacts are of infamous memory, but the truth is that NATO was a necessary instrument at the time when the steel curtain existed and is once again a necessary instrument for the defence of the Western world because there are still important challenges. I would like to enter, although it would take us hours, to discuss the Middle East, North Africa, etc., but I certainly do not share Mr Centella's simplistic analysis of good, good and bad, bad, because we are talking about interventions in Libya. Half-time interventions in Libya, since perhaps the problem in Libya was that the intervention occurred half-time. Syria has not even intervened, even if there is a humanitarian crisis such as that which has been caused. It is complicated all this, it is not so simple, but what is true, what is true is that there is an obvious and much more uncontrollable danger than the possible threat of the Eastern bloc at the time, and so on, because it takes other forms, because this is a more open world and because the truth is that NATO forces without the U.S. logistical and technical umbrella are not really operational. In different operations it has been shown that the United States has had to put on the technical-military umbrella. Our group therefore sees with all logic that these foundations can be maintained and continues to work together in this regard. For my part, nothing more. The issue is clear and clear enough not to have to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Lozano has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u8	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by defending the presence of the American bases in our country because - and I think it is quite out of the question - they are fundamental for Spanish defence but also for European defence. Abstracting us from the fundamental debate from visions - I do not want to be disrespectful but perhaps a little out of time - is obvious that if there were no such American bases in Spain we would probably have to increase Spanish defence spending, Mr Centella, and we would have to increase European defence spending. We will try to focus the debates on reality, facts and data as far as possible, within which we each then have our ideas and policies on it. The reality is that the strengthening of the American presence at the base of Morón also occurred with Rota for having increased its strategic value due to instability in the Maghreb. This has been explained by the minister with greater profusion, so I am not going to stop much talking about the Arab Springs, the Islamist winters and particularly the situation in Libya, which has become a failed state that is the geographical beginning of an Islamist magma that extends through the Sahel, sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East. The minister has made that geographical tour and I do not think it is necessary to insist on it, but if we ask ourselves who poses a greater threat that - worth redundancy - Islamist threat, our country is undoubtedly one of the countries very close to that unstable Maghreb. And to deny this is simply to close your eyes to what poses a threat that does not exactly deal with rich and poor because I want to remind you that Bin Laden was the son of a billionaire Saudi family. Unfortunately, things are more complex, I wish they were so simple but unfortunately they are more complex. I want to bring back a few words from what was Secretary of Defense of the United States, Robert Gates, who said in June 2011: Future American political leaders, those who did not live in the Cold War, can begin to be reluctant to provide Europe with the maintenance of security in its surroundings via NATO. He stressed that the need for such a presence is due in large part - and I think we should be aware of this - to the absence of a European defence policy worthy of that name and the example of Libya serves again. Germany in its day abstained from that intervention - which was probably a half-hearted intervention, as Mr Esteban pointed out - and yet in Mali, for example, France took the initiative. It is obvious that if we had greater coordination and integration of European defence policy we could think of another policy with regard to the American presence, but today that is simply unthinkable. What we would have liked to have heard in this debate at the mouth of our Government is what Spanish policy and strategy is about this Islamist threat and about instability in the very near north of Africa in general and how this amendment protocol is incardinated in that policy and strategy, but what we have heard is how it is incardinated within American policy and strategy. Certainly those strategic interests, threats and risks are shared, but we would have liked to have seen this protocol throughout our country's security policy and European security policy. We certainly think that hasty debates, express debates like this, do not help the Spanish citizen to be aware of the magnitude of that threat, the magnitude of that risk and why it is necessary to strengthen our security in the face of this changing world and in the face of this boom of Islamism. We believe that this national vision, this global vision, could generate a broad consensus, as could this protocol, and yet - often in an unlucky and overwhelmed way - it is reacting to the needs of other policies, in this case of American policy, without ever integrating them into a joint, global and long-term vision - this is fundamental, in the long term - of national security. We therefore advocate the increase of this presence of the United States, but regret that it is due to strategic objectives and needs raised by another country in which ours has not taken the initiative. I believe that these shared strategic interests would have been crucial in this negotiation, but unfortunately the feeling that gives us is that Spain has played ping-pong instead of chess, which is also common in foreign policy. It is also linked to addressing in depth, as I said, strategic and security debates, with a long-term vision and with the spirit that the average citizen really understands what that country vision is. There would be another possible approach to this negotiation and to the Minister's approach, which is that of the old and famous counterparts, that is, if we did not speak in terms of shared strategic interests and within that long-term vision, the counterparts he has. In our view it is a more immediate and more short-term analysis or approach, but it is undoubtedly also of interest to the people living in the area. However, you have considered that this remains outside this debate; we would like it to remain inside. We already know that it is part of the agreements of understanding and not of the protocol itself, but as a parliamentary group we would have liked to have had knowledge of those agreements of understanding; I know that other groups have had it - we are probably not up to it - but what we know of those agreements of understanding is what you have said in the press. You have said in the press that there is a planned investment of EUR 26 million - you have said it again here - and that necessarily - I have read it in half-coil - that will have to be translated into employment. It seems to us that this need does not exist, but - as Jacques Monod put it - that there is probably more chance than there is a need for those EUR 26 million to be translated into employment. Firstly, because it is not a legally binding commitment to achieve that investment of 26 million; what there is a Pentagon statement on infrastructure projects that is estimated to translate into an investment of that amount, that is, the figure is estimated and the commitment is vague. But, secondly, the United States - I insist, as far as we know from the press - has committed itself to hiring Spanish companies and staff whenever possible and always in accordance with American laws and regulations; that is, there is at all a cause-effect relationship between investment and employment that could be directly derived from that investment and, given that on numerous US bases around the world - also here - that procurement takes place through subcontracts that are giving many problems - I suppose you know of a very extensive article that was published in The New Yorker a few months ago regarding the problems that these subcontracts cause on the bases -, the truth is that what we have is the vague promise that there will be some investment and some employment, but we would like to see that, since the American presence is going to increase, those jobs will also increase. And what has happened in recent years, while this presence was temporary and was being renewed when it corresponded, is that, despite the increased workload, redundancies have increased, and that is what we find very worrying. We find it very worrying that this increase in investment, presence and work is not accompanied by an increase in recruitment of Spanish staff. Minister, we lack greater boldness - I do not know whether to call it that - in the negotiation either from a strategic point of view or from a counterpart's point of view. They have not given us any explanation of what this negotiation has been like; we are not sure that a long-term or short-term vision has been given. We are going to support this protocol strictly because we think it is good for our country to strengthen those ties of alliance with the United States, but I have to tell you that they have made it very difficult for us what would have been easy for us. It would have been very easy to have this parliamentary group, to pass on that information, to explain the details of the negotiation, and we would probably have supported this protocol with enthusiasm, or at least with more information. They've made it difficult for us to do what was easy, but in spite of that, we'll do it out of responsibility. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Xuclà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, yesterday morning in the debate on the European Council, which basically dealt with Greece, the President of the Government also pointed out another item on the agenda of the first of the two European Councils which took place during June, on European security and defence policy and on the inadequacy of European security policy. We would probably have to define a much more forceful and focused security policy on many aspects, but today the security policy of Europeans is closely linked to the Atlantic Alliance, to the transatlantic link and to cooperation with the United States, with which we strategically share some visions and disagree with others. For example, the approach of the United States to the conflict in Ukraine and the solution proposed by the United States is, I think fortunately, different from the response put forward by the European Union and also by the Spanish Government. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, what we are dealing with today is the importance of a base with great geostrategic value in the south of the Mediterranean to deal with scenarios of instability in Africa, especially in the north. Today, ladies and gentlemen - I think it is good to remember this - in addition to discussing an amendment to the whole on an alternative model or on Mr Gaddafi, we could also be discussing whether this base is in Spain or Italy, because that is a possible scenario in the final straight of the negotiation. This is a base that in the end has been settled in Spain but with another alternative that was the base of Sigonella, in southern Italy, and also with another base that interacts with the Spanish one in Romania, Kogalniceanu. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should make a positive assessment in the interest of security in southern Europe of that cooperation between allies for a common cause in the face of a common threat, which aims to strengthen the interoperability of a base with a scenario of potential increase in American troops in the event of instability in North Africa or in the Sahel area. The United States began to define a strategy in the Mediterranean after the attack at its embassy in Libya on September 11, 2012, which, among other things, cost the lives of Ambassador Chris Stevens. But it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that for the Mediterranean coastal countries this is a concern that comes further and I think it is good to bring to the fore in this debate that the base of Moron is not only a contingency base, in case it has to be activated, but that the base of Moron has served since 2012 for the dispatch of allied American forces in South Sudan, in operations in Libya and in operations in Liberia in the face of the Ebola crisis. And in two of the three cases this mission has also served for the evacuation of Spaniards. I therefore believe that we should put the debate on the right terms because we are not discussing Mr Gaddafi or the opportunity or inopportunity of the London-Paris axis with regard to Libya - let it be said in passing - surely one of the times that French diplomacy, which is a prudent and sophisticated diplomacy, has ceased to be prudent and sophisticated. What we are dealing with today is a base that has been operational in humanitarian interventions in South Sudan, Syria, Liberia and has as its objectives medical assistance, transport of logistical combat and, where appropriate, evacuation of troops and civilians under fire. This is the framework in which we discuss and we must position ourselves in favour or against. We are going to stand in favour because this is a basis that gives stability and security to the allies, to the countries of southern Europe, to Spain, to the interests of the United States and to the common interests of a long-distance alliance. Ladies and gentlemen, I have here the minutes of the signing of the Convention on 17 June in the State Department, which in the end was between the deputy secretary general and the secretary general Ignacio Ibáñez, because Mr John Kerry, for a small bicycle accident - not so small, according to the minister - could not come to Spain and sign this amendment to the protocol. I have collected the records of the Department of State simply because they reflect the great consensus between the two parties and this collaboration that comes from afar. It is good that this debate is transferred to Parliament in two terms: firstly, in order to deepen the debate on international treaties in the Commission and in plenary. Today some group may say that the debate is insufficient and that the information is insufficient, but let us be a little honest with ourselves, because in the vast majority of cases international treaties go through a light debate - if I may say so - in the Commission and in plenary. And I am not criticizing or referring to this treaty, but to other treaties that in other parliaments have an intense and profound debate. A second aspect to which other speakers who have spoken before me have already referred and on which the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union is not going to make a very extensive reference is that of the economic impact. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end it seems that it is very easy to access data on the economic impact. The U.S. Embassy itself has made public - I have it but I do not want to speak for the U.S. Embassy - the one hundred and four fixed jobs, the eventual ones, the economic impact of 6.5 or 7 million euros in the last year. If you want to have this debate, on which there is sufficient information and in which we should discuss whether a government, when transferring a communication to Parliament and a draft amendment to a protocol, should also transfer the figures of the economic impact on the specific area, in this case in Morón, Andalusia. We support everything that is to combat job insecurity and strengthen a positive impact on local economies. The elements of debate exist, but I believe that this is an element of discussion of another parliamentary procedure, of a procedural moment other than the ratification of an amendment to an international protocol. The Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union will vote in favour, convinced that this is a renewal of a long-distance alliance of common interest and common cause. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Garrido has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Foreign Affairs, the amendment protocol for which we are being asked for support is included in the 1989 Cooperation Agreement with the United States, as you know perfectly well, when I was President of Government Felipe González and Minister for Foreign Affairs Fernández Ordóñez, replacing the previous agreements, starting with the 1953 Francoist Convention which had been signed with an absolute imbalance in the positions of both parties. The United States dominated the convention. Spain gave up territories, essentially bases, in exchange for economic benefits in a kind of rental of the territory and, of course, a very dubious Spanish sovereignty over that territory. The United States was not an ally; it was a very curious relationship to have bases in a territory without being an ally, which only throughout history has been shared with the Sheychelles Islands and Guantanamo. But that was the situation; it was a contract more in the logic of private law than of public law; a genuine anomaly that disappears definitively with the 1989 Convention, not only because of the absolute denuclearization of the American bases - of the bases that cease to be American to become Spanish - but because it descends the number of these bases in Spain and, therefore, Spain and the United States are placed in a situation of sovereign equality in that they were already solid allies within the Atlantic Alliance, within NATO. Since then, on these bases - which are not American, are Spanish - the last decisions, in cases where it is necessary, in special cases, of crisis, are taken by Spain, by the Spanish authorities, and when there is a mission or action that is not of bilateral or multilateral objectives, as stated in Article 2 of the Convention, the Spanish authorities decide to authorize such action or not. So the 1989 Convention, where this protocol is introduced - it should be made clear - was made for reasons of convenience in Spain's foreign and security policy, not for economic reasons or for economic counter-performance. This Third Amendment Protocol - referring to an increase in American military personnel from the Moron border base, as well as aircraft - makes Moron the main base of Africom, the command over Africa, and the endowment of substantial strategic importance for the operations of the United States Armed Forces in Africa and the Middle East, but does not vary the parameters of the 1989 Convention, does not change them, does not transform them, although, of course, the qualitatively different nature of that base is there. At a time when the context of global security has changed - the European Council of 18 May said that it had changed dramatically - for us the fundamental reason for accepting the text of this protocol is that it serves to increase the security of Spanish citizens, not only of American citizens, but of Spanish citizens and allies, as the preamble to this text says, and does not increase the risk of that happening. Terrorist attacks do not need pretexts to occur. We share the objectives explained in that preamble, actions for crisis situations, indeed, in the Mediterranean and Middle East areas. The sense of the United States' request to increase this amount - the Minister has explained - is indeed a threat essentially of a terrorist nature linked to what is happening in North Africa, in the Sahel, in the Middle East; a terrorism whose abominable methods we have had tragic examples in very different places such as Paris, Tunisia, Ottawa, not far from the current situation. The entity of the threat is so great that the two top leaders of the two major parties in this House have recently signed an anti-terrorist agreement against radical jihadism. Hence the political importance that we attach to this objective of this Third Amendment Protocol with all clarity. Therefore, the greater strategic weight that Morón acquires - he has also passed with the base of Rota - in the historical juncture that we live brings more security and not less to our country. When there are teams of greater military power than those that the Spanish Armed Forces possess is positive, not negative; it provides us with effectiveness and deterrent capacity or immediate reaction, it provides us with training and greater connection with Africom. Of course, this would not be possible if there was no political fund of coincidence, of convergence with the democratic values that we defend both countries and with the objectives proper to foreign policy; foreign policy that is diverse - the United States has its foreign policy and Spain has its own - but that is not incompatible. That is what makes this convention meaningful with the successive amendments that took place until this Third Amendment Protocol. At this time, at the geostrategic juncture we are living in, it is especially appropriate to share this use with the United States of Spanish military bases, when the doctrine, as it were, of American leaders and NATO has evolved. The Obama administration's foreign policy has shown greater proximity to multilateralism. There is no doubt that it is different from the Bush administration's policy, which led us to the disastrous war in Iraq, with the unfortunate cooperation of the then Spanish Government. Obama is different from Bush; in the current American policy there is a subjection to international law, there is respect for the decisions of the United Nations Security Council. These are clear changes. It must also be said that this doctrine of Obama's defence policy is a policy of diminishing war interventionism and the presence of American troops - Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya - has shown a concern for denuclearization, which is one of the foundations of the 1989 Convention, which, as is well known, has just borne fruit in the historic agreement with Iran. On the other hand, NATO's latest decisions are more focused on the eastern flank than on the southern flank, and this is a way to compensate for that obvious drift from NATO clearly at this time, which is more concerned by the crisis in Ukraine and the supposed threat from Russia than by the threats coming from the Mediterranean area. We could also include in this geostrategic situation that look from the United States towards the Pacific, towards Asia more than towards Europe. There is therefore more reason to strengthen the transatlantic relationship - I would rather talk about the relationship or the Euro-Atlantic area - with this protocol which extends to Europe and makes it compatible with the European Security and Defence Policy. Let us not say that it develops it necessarily, but of course it makes it compatible with that European policy. All these arguments are at the basis of our favourable vote, but certainly not the way this negotiation has been carried out, without anyone, without this parliamentary group. The United States Government has always had more interest in knowing the development of the negotiations than the Spanish Government itself; it is a mistake because it had strengthened the Government's position on industrial or technological cooperation issues, where much remains to be done, or even on labour issues, to which I will refer because it is another point of dissatisfaction: the situation of Spanish workers at the base of Morón. In recent years, as our colleague Don Miguel Ángel Heredia told you the other day, in Morón, and also in Rota, as the number of American military personnel increases, Spanish workers, fired or not replaced, are decreasing. At the base of Morón there have been up to three EREs in recent times, which have always been annulled by the courts by wrongdoers, and we do not want a fourth ERE, we do not want the military personnel of the United States to replace Spanish civilian personnel. We have been telling the entire legislature in Congress, in the Senate, in the Ministry of Defence, to the United States Government itself. The result is that the Spanish Government has been unable to reach a compromise with the United States Government to bring that perverse dynamic to an end. It has not obtained guarantees from the US Government, except for this MOU, which, as has been said, is a MOU of intentions, investments of 29 million and of hiring Spanish companies and workers which, although it is better than nothing, is certainly insufficient for workers' demands. The company committee of the Spanish workers of the base of Morón has pointed out that this Third Protocol of Amendment has to give job stability to the staff in order to increase the hirings or to readmit fired employees. We again demand a commitment from the government to defend the interests of the workers and ask it to be truly involved in that goal, for which we will be absolutely vigilant from the Socialist Party. And, of course, it will change the situation if we lead the Government of Spain after the next general elections. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the Socialist Group will support the adoption of this protocol, and without prejudice to the dissatisfaction I have pointed out, we believe that it fulfils the objectives of concern to Spain and the United States, strengthens our security in the face of emerging threats; increases the operational capacity of our Armed Forces; gives us more capacity to react to crises of a military or humanitarian nature, this is the case for example of the Ebola crisis, and therefore produces a greater preventive deterrent effect to an escalation; closes the convergence with the United States security policy, maintaining in any case the sovereignty of the Spanish State to decide autonomously and absolutely its foreign and defence policy, and finally coincides with the objectives which have been agreed in the Spanish national security strategy and with the current European security strategy. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. López Garrido. For the People's Group, Mr Tarno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. What we have come to approve here today has been very well explained by the Minister, is the Third Protocol to the Convention on Cooperation for Defence between the Kingdom of Spain and the United States of America, we did not come to anything else, although when he listened to some speakers, it seemed that we were talking about anything less about this convention. The Amendment Protocol is an agreement that, as you know, was signed in December 1988, was thoroughly revised in April 2002 and in October 2012, expanding the capacity of the Rota base. Since 2012, the United States Government has been requesting temporary deployments of marines and aircraft to ensure security in North and West Africa; it also requested it in March 2014, again being authorized by the Government of Spain. Given this situation of international instability, it was logical and necessary to amend the convention, because it was necessary to convert what had been temporary authorizations to date into definitive ones and thus deepen the guarantee of the security of our country, of the Kingdom of Spain and of our Western allies. With this protocol, which, as the Minister and I said, we are pleased that it has become definitive, what we are doing is deepening in more than sixty years of bilateral relations with the United States of America, which, of course, have brought enormous benefits to Spain and the Spanish people. We are guaranteeing and deepening the security of the Spaniards and also, why not, guaranteeing the well-being of the environments of Morón and Rota. What are we really approving here today? Just one preamble and five articles of an existing convention, which is also extremely important for some of the issues that you have not discussed, such as labour issues. Nothing has changed in this matter, the regulation of civilian personnel in the bases of Morón and Rota comes from other conventions. What we will authorize is to increase the total number of authorized personnel at the Morón de la Frontera air base to 2,200 military personnel and 500 civilians. Secondly, crisis response forces are incorporated into the cadre of the units that houses the above-mentioned air base. This force has a total of 21 transport, refuelling and operational support aircraft, and its main activity is the implementation of crisis response operations. Thirdly, the second annex to the third paragraph of the Convention refers to the additional maximum levels of personnel and air assets that, on a temporary basis, the United States will be able to highlight at the Morón de la Frontera air base for crisis response consisting of 800 military personnel and 14 aircraft. This is what this Protocol of Amendment to the Convention consists of, it is nothing more or nothing less, to deepen our relations with the United States and to deepen our security guarantee in extremely complicated and difficult situations that you have told very well here. The current agreements regulate and regulate the model of the use of bases and the relations of Spanish workers and contractors. Nothing has changed, everything remains exactly the same. There are very striking positions. Mr. Centella simplifies everything in good and bad, in everything. Today are the bases and yesterday was Greece. They always give card of good and card of bad. By the way, there are four NATO bases in Greece and they have no interest in modifying them. They're even talking about adding one more. The Greek defence budget, not of doctors or of those you want, is 2.2% of GDP. Spain's defence budget is 0.9 % of GDP. It's for us to locate some of us. Yesterday we said one thing and today we say another. Ladies and gentlemen, the first one who is interested in defending workers at the base of Morón, as well as all workers in this country, is the Government of Spain. The first one who makes policies in defense of work in this country is us, the government and the group that supports it. You are concerned today about the workers at the base of Moron and I too, but not today, since the first ERE was launched with a socialist government and sponsored by socialists who, by the way, is the beginning of the whole labor problem at the air base of Moron, and we are not going to talk about ERE, because maybe instead of talking here we would have to talk in a court of law. We're not gonna talk about ERE. [[Mrs. Pozuelo Meño: Say which one]] Where many of those EREs have been seen and the illegality of those EREs. [[Mrs. Pozuelo Meño: Where it has been archived]] Where they've been seen. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u15	Please, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u16	There is no more interest in this government than ensuring employment at the base of Moron. The Ministries of Defence and Foreign Affairs have worked with the Government of the United States to express to it the concern of the Government and the party that underpins it on the employment situation of workers at the Morón air base, as we did in its day also with the Rota base. The greatest guarantee for employment at the base of Moron is the signing of this protocol because, as some Member has explained here, it has been suggested that these forces which are going to be deployed to Moron could have been deployed to another country of the European Union. If that had happened, there was no guarantee of employment. Here we are going to guarantee the employment that we all defend from the base of Morón with more military with more aircraft and with the pressure of the Spanish Government. By the way, there are some who want to close the ground and keep the job and I don't know how it can be done. There are some who once a year go from romeria to the base of Morón asking for employment and to close the bases. It's absolutely hard. Said an old teacher of mine that snoring and blowing at the same time is enormously difficult. This agreement is necessary and essential, guarantees our security and deepens the bilateral relations of a strategic partner for our country. I am therefore grateful to the political groups that are going to support his responsibility. You are certain that from the People's Parliamentary Group and from the Government we will be the first to defend jobs in Morón, but I insist that we are talking here about a protocol of essential amendment for security in Europe and in our country, which continues to deepen relations between Spain and the United States and which we believe is a good agreement. Thank you very much. [[Mr García-Margallo Marfil, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Tarno. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u18	Mr President, I am going to speak, firstly, because the debate is important and, secondly, because I have great respect for Parliament and I believe that it is in Parliament that these issues need to be discussed. Mr Centella, thank you for the tone of your speech. The first clarification is that, as you know, I am neither an official nor an employee of the Department of State. If I graduated from Harvard, I'm an Air Force Ensign and I'm an officer in this country, a state tax technician for more signs. Secondly, Libya was not destabilized, whatever my opinion on the Franco-British intervention, at the time Gaddafi fell. Libya has always been a very fragile State, a failed State, and of course Gaddafi was neither a model of institutionalization nor of respect for rights and freedoms. As an optimistic note, I will tell you that Libya offers all the conditions for an early peace. Libya has energy resources that allow it to have economic resources and development of an important welfare state and was not until recently plagued by sectarian conflicts in other countries. It is true that Daesh is today, but it does not have a sectarian division between Shia and Sunni as it exists in other countries that are also subject to conflict. Thirdly, you have a perception error. The United States is self-sufficient in energy and will soon be surplus in energy. This determines that the United States will lose its interest in the Middle East and North Africa, at least its interest in the need for energy supplies. They can keep it for other reasons, but certainly not for that one. It is the European Union that is interested in stability in North Africa so that North Africa and the Middle East can become durable sources of energy supply. The main interest of the European Union is now to reduce its energy dependence on Russia in order to increase its geopolitical margin. The next perception error is that since oil control is not in multinational companies. Ninety per cent of companies controlling oil and gas reserves are now state-owned, not multinational. Iran. I do not know if you have said this to me as a reproach, because you know what the position of this Government on Iran has been from the very beginning. I was in Iran long before the Easter agreement. The Minister of Foreign Affairs visited Spain after the provisional agreement of Holy Week, ours being the first country to visit after that agreement. We have met the President of the Government and I several times with President Rouhani and, as you know, we chair the sanctions committee for Iran. For more information, I will tell you that we have already agreed on a visit to Iran by three government ministers to assess the situation in that country by early September. I have nothing to say about poverty. I have said this once in the Commission and I say it now. In the last interview I had with Shimon Peres he explained that the real problem in Egypt - but the reasoning is extrapolable to any other country - is that when the Revolution of the Colonels occurred in 1952 there were 20 million Egyptians and today there are 95 million with the same water and the same resources. And where there is poverty and no provision of essential services, these services are provided by religious organizations that, in return, call for a discipline that often translates into military discipline. Mr López Garrido has said this, and I agree with him: we are talking about the security of Spain; about the security of the allies as well, but fundamentally about the security of Spain. I do not have to remind you - the former Foreign Minister knows you very well - that when I came to the ministry we had two people kidnapped in Mali, that we then had two people kidnapped in Somalia-Kenia, that we had two Spaniards killed in Tunisia and that we could be threatened by a terrorist attack at any time. As for Daesh, I want to be very clear. With Daesh there is no other formula but a military solution. With Daesh there can be no negotiation of any kind either in Libya, Syria or Iraq. There is only one possibility, which is to eliminate them physically. You talk about sovereignty and you quote me to Greece. They would do well to understand that in the world in which we live the concept of sovereignty is not the concept of Westphalia. What we have done for integration into the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance is to share sovereignty, to give sovereignty in exchange for security. Talking about sovereignty in absolute terms is nonsense. When the Greek Government alluded to the sovereignty of the Greek people, who had given a referendum mandate, it was not to understand that, in addition to the Greek people, there were eighteen other democracies that had something to say, especially when joint issues were being discussed that affected everyone. Mr Esteban, I would like to thank you for your vote and for your speech. I would like to point out, as we will have occasion to do later, that the 1953 Convention, which was unbalanced, as López Garrido recalled, was a first sign of openness to the outside world, because the next one was in 1959, with the Stabilization Plan, the Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Mr. Xuclà, thank you for your vote. I did not expect anything else, given the constant defense of Westernism of Convergence and Union, now Convergence. I hope that will continue in the future. Mr López Garrido made some interesting comments on the 1899 Convention, the restoration of Spanish sovereignty and the balanced nature of the Convention. He referred to Article 2, which I subscribe to. I just want to tell you, Mr. López Garrido, that it is not true that we have not spoken to your group. The Minister of Defence and I have spoken with various partners of the Socialist Group at all times, and I say this with this emphasis because if I wanted something to characterize the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of this Government, it has been information, consensus, if possible, transparency and dialogue between all the parliamentary groups, but especially between the two most important parliamentary groups. And you are right - it is an acute observation - that this convention comes at a time when the United States is looking, on the one hand, at Asia-Pacific and, on the other hand, it might have the temptation to look remarkably eastward, fundamentally for what is happening in Ukraine. It comes to balance this issue and, therefore, Mrs Lozano, we have played chess in Libya. We were the first to convene a conference on Libya in Madrid; secondly, we were in the New York group; thirdly, we held a Conference on the Southern Neighbourhood in Barcelona. Mrs Lozano, we have a foreign policy, a defence policy on all matters, and in this one piece and very coherent. It is in the external action strategy, which you can consult. We are part of the coalition against terrorism, which has been endorsed by the agreement signed by the two major groups that this House, to which Mr López Garrido has referred, has signed. And as such, we participate in military operations: we are in Iraq, as a result of the request of the Al Arabi Government; we are part of the group against the financing that Bahrain chairs; we are part of the group against foreign fighters and soon we will have an international conference on this issue in Madrid. And in addition to the coalition, we have had the policy of fostering intercultural and interreligious dialogue, as you know: we continue to be part of the Alliance of Civilizations launched by the previous government, we are part of the Centre for Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue in Vienna, we are promoting dialogue in these same matters carried out by the University of Al-Azhar and on the 22nd day we will meet in Barcelona, at the initiative of the Union for the Mediterranean, to talk about dialogue between the two great branches of Islam, Sunni and Shia, which is exactly what needs to be done. We are also part of that group of countries - having taken the initiative with Morocco - that we are trying to resolve conflicts by peaceful means. That is why we have initiated, developed and promoted a group called Mediation in the Mediterranean. Mr Xuclà has already said that the information you have on the subject of work is exhaustive. The press must not be read, what must be read is the very memorandum of understanding here which contains very clear statements as regards the enlistment of operations, interoperability, investments and related provisions. The thing about the 29 million isn't that I say it, it's that the deal says it. The Joint Understanding, which you know, has several paragraphs which have a special bearing on the issues to which Mr Tarno has referred. It says: Some programs could include opportunities for the participation of observers from the Spanish Armed Forces, etc. The United States Department of Defense is ready to work with the Spanish Ministry of Defense to develop proposals for the location of other Spanish organizations, etc. It says: The United States intends to use Spanish materials, workers and equipment for projects and works whenever possible. And it says, finally: Our nations foresee that the conclusion of the third protocol that allows will have a positive impact on the Andalusian economy similar to the benefits achieved in Rota. [[...]] I insist, it is not this Joint Understanding Agreement that is the subject of this discussion, but since you have asked, it seems to me of elementary courtesy to make some comments. There is all the information, it is complete, and if you want to have a specific discussion on this subject, I would suggest that you call the Minister of Defence and discuss this subject. What I want to say today is that what we are discussing is important enough in itself so that we do not divert attention to collateral issues that are also important but are not the subject of the discussion we have today. I agree with Mr Tarno that if anyone has been concerned about employment issues in general and employment issues in particular at the base of Morón, it has been this government. That is why we have demanded that an agreement of understanding be developed in the protocol, which is the only legal formula possible, Mr López Garrido, there is no other formula than an agreement of understanding. Of course, we will be vigilant - because if anyone cares about us at least as much as you do - for that to translate into benefits, in terms of wealth, growth and employment. I would like to end by thanking the representative of the People's Group, who has explained and complemented much better than I could have done the aspects of Morón, because he has been following them for a very long time, and it has been many hours that we have discussed on a subject that seems to him to be absolutely vital and political priority. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. I now give the floor, first of all, to Mr Centella for five minutes. After Mr Centella, the speakers who have spoken and who ask for the floor will also have their turn to reply. You have the floor, Mr. Centella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, of course Gaddafi was no model, but we did not give him the key to the city of Madrid. Nor were we the ones who visited the jaima when he came to La Moncloa, it was not us. We were the only group that didn't attend when he was given the key to Madrid. So don't tell me you weren't a model. The problem is that what is in Libya today is no better than what was before, and of course we did not support Mr Gaddafi and of course there were other methods and mechanisms. [[The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, García-Margallo Marfil: Yes, it is better]] The problem is that you've done pyromaniacs and now you're not able to do firefighters. Secondly, the fact that the United States is self-sufficient in its oil supply does not mean that oil is not a big business at the moment; that is not the argument. Oil today is a big business and the fact that it is state-owned does not mean that it is not multinational, because the concept of multinational, Minister, is a concept of the global economy. It is therefore true that the objective is in the natural wealth of the planet, and that this is the objective of the interventions. On the other hand, I have not put Iran as a reproach; on the contrary, I have set it as an example. And of course Mr Bush is not the same as President Obama, without being President Obama an example, as has been shown on several occasions, but the truth is that the picture of the Azores today is replaced by the picture of this Parliament. It is also true that today Andalusia is more insecure than it was before the adoption of this treaty, because the concept of sovereignty is not something theoretical but something very concrete and very palpable, as I said before. The concept of sovereignty implies that Spanish legislation should be applied in Spanish territory, that is sovereignty, and that the marines should not be sent in front of a picket of Spanish workers. That is sovereignty, that Spanish legislation can be applied on Spanish territory, that they do not have to know who will be affected by an ERE looking at United States documentation. That is the concept of sovereignty because, let us not deceive ourselves, they are not Spanish bases; they are bases that are in Spanish territory and on which there is not full Spanish sovereignty, and that is the reality. The agreement that brings us here today does not guarantee any more security because it does not go in the line of making the planet safer. And of course we must fight the Islamic State, but we must not act first as pyromaniacs and then have to act as firefighters. Obviously, Mr. Bin Laden was not a pariah of the earth, but Bin Laden's army was pariah. That is the problem: why it is nourished, why it arises and how the Islamic State must be combated right now. That is why we are proposing the holding of an international conference, to see how a comprehensive solution is given to a not only military problem, but as long as the United Nations does not play its role, there will be no solution; as long as there is no in-depth reform of the United Nations, you will send NATO troops wherever you want to send them, but the only thing you will achieve is that there is more and more terrorists and more bases for the Islamic State or what you might call it at another time. A short time ago, the enemy to shoot was Al Qaeda and today is another. We therefore continue to raise the proposal to go towards peace at a major security conference and in a minute I will say, thanks to the benevolence of the President, that the issue of workers is not collateral. By the way, Mr Tarno, we are not going to romerie; we are going to demonstrate to demand the dismantling of the base and its transformation, as I have once again proposed. We want quality employment in Morón and we want the base to be transformed and what you propose, Minister, does not guarantee investment or employment. Mr. Marshall will pass through Moron again, but this time he will not have flags, as on other occasions, but the people of Moron protesting because they already know where Mr. Marshall is going; they are no longer worth the deception of other occasions. That is why I told you that we can have Mr Tarno and I a debate in Morón on the subject, because there the works council and the workers know very well what we are talking about. Vague promises, minimums. Does anyone think that EUR 29 million will now be invested in creating jobs? We do not believe this because the practice is that, when the agreements have been extended - which, by the way, when the first one came here we already said that this was a preamble to then consolidate it and we were told from this rostrum that that was not so - they did not serve to create employment; on the contrary, employment has decreased. The workers had the hope at least that this agreement would take advantage of something really executive, not to make promises but to offer realities. And today you have not come here to offer any reality. Mr Tarno will return to Seville tomorrow and will not explain any reality, he will only make vague promises. But Spanish labour legislation will not apply in Morón as it has not been applied and the conflict in Morón will continue to get worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. Spokesmen who want to intervene? Mr. Esteban? [[Pause]] [[Denial.- Mrs Lozano Sunday asked for the floor]] Mrs. Lozano, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u22	Thank you, President. I will speak very briefly, just to answer three of your statements. You tell me to call the Minister of Defence, but I already have accumulated experience in this legislature to tell him that he is a very willing man to return the calls - at least those of this parliamentary group - and that therefore we do not have that option. I know it's not your responsibility, I'll just let you know. Secondly, you and Mr Xuclà tell me about the information that is available on the web. I am not talking to you about the information this parliamentary group needs to position itself. We've had meetings with the U.S. Embassy, about the base of Moron. We have had meetings with the company committee in Morón, which has informed us about the situation of the workers. And in that succession of meetings, we believe it would have been logical to have had a meeting with the Government so that it would have given us its point of view. It is not a question of having the information itself, it is a question of the institutional relationship that must exist between a Government and a parliamentary group, and the proof that our information is good is that the paragraphs you have read from that memorandum of understanding coincide with what I have said, not expressing a concrete commitment to employment but a generic commitment, intention and plans. The information we have is good; what I was missing and asking for is that they should have handled this matter with another kind of institutional relationship in which this parliamentary group could have listened to the view of the Government with greater proximity. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. [[Mr López Garrido asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u24	I wanted to refer to a very strong statement that you made in your speech, Minister, that Daesh terrorism, terrorism in general, has only one military solution, exclusively a military solution and nothing more than a military solution. I believe that this is a very simplistic view of the matter, it seems to me to be a strategic issue of substance in the fight against terrorism, which is clearly at present the greatest threat not only to Western security, in Europe, but also to global security. It's a much more complex matter. The reasons for the terrorism of the Islamic State, which currently occupies almost half of Syria and one third of Iraq, have profound origins that have to do with the enormous poverty and inequality, the very complex relations that exist in many countries with failed States, which are incapable of controlling these movements. For example, in the specific case of Iraq it is absolutely essential to promote a policy of alliances within Iraq, because at the heart of all this there is a struggle, an Arab civil war between Shia and Sunni. I therefore believe that it would be simplistic and would not lead us much to solve the issue simply by saying that there is only one military solution to terrorism. I think we need to work much more in political directions, not just on the military side. I agree that military action is essential, but there is also a need for political action that I am currently missing in the coalition that has been formed against the Islamic State, where there is a whole series of decisions of a strictly military nature but not a clearly defined long-range political strategy, without which it will be very difficult to end this problem and for which, of course, there is a lot of patience because it is a long-distance one. Finally, Minister, I am concerned about the degree of disconnection or lack of communication in this government. You tell us to talk to the Minister of Defence about this. I do not know whether there is good communication between you, but this is a position of the Government, not of the Foreign Minister or of the Minister of Defence. It is part of the agreement with the United States and of this protocol that labour component, that memorandum, which is of the Government as a whole, is not of a ministry. They tell us to talk to the Ministry of Defense, which is the message they moved the other day in response to a question Miguel Ángel Heredia asked him and another one today. We have observed this on other occasions: in the draft law on the Military Penal Code, the Ministry of Defence has one directorate and the Ministry of the Interior has another different and contradictory one. They need to coordinate, Minister. To see if for this end of the legislature they are coordinated and offer integrated positions, which will be much more effective on the part of the Government. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. López Garrido. Mr. Tarno.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Coordination will also have to be done by your parliamentary group. I have attended several meetings with Senators and Members of your party in the Ministry of Defence - not one to two or three - where we discussed this matter, the MOU, as well as labour relations in Morón, with the Minister and members of his cabinet. Perhaps if you coordinate with your fellow senators and Members, perhaps you did not make these statements that are out of place because they are unreal. The substantive part of the Third Amendment Protocol to this Convention is 1988 and 2002, of which nothing has been changed. It gives the impression - and the Minister is right - that perhaps the debate should have been on another document, on the MOU - some want to do so. We are prepared to do so, as on any other matter, but the House is deeply in agreement with this third protocol because they are going to vote on it mostly. Again I insist that you are not guarantors - none or many of those who speak here - of the right to work in Spain. But what they have been working for in Spain for years has been to create unemployment and ruin in this country! [[Rumors]] The same interest they are showing in labour relations in the base area of Morón could have had in the last four years of government with all the Spaniards, whom they condemned to unemployment and misery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Tarno. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u28	I intervene from the seat and with absolute shortness. Mr. Centella, Libya is much better than Gaddafi. There are elections and there is Parliament; probably too many elections and too many parliaments, but with Gaddafi there was none. Secondly, that oil has mercantile aspects is obvious. The manna was in the desert and free, but from that many years ago and has not been repeated. Thirdly, it tells me how Spanish interventions are authorised. With this Government, as set out in the Foreign Action Act and in the external action strategy, three things are needed: one, an international umbrella - which is why I am reviewing the issue of the picture of the Azores - two, an authorization from the Government and, three, a debate in this Parliament, which is what we are doing. More openness, more transparency and more dialogue, impossible. It is true that you were not in the photos with Gaddafi - you had other photos in your hemerotecas of a more or less similar democratic quality - but each one will have to respond to their actions, past and present. Mrs Lozano, the only thing I have said is that if you want a specific appearance on the labour issue, I am delighted. I think it is more practical for the Minister of Defence to come, who has done it, because of what Azaña said: that if in Spain everyone spoke only of what he knows, there would be a great national silence that would favor reflection. I'm willing to come and do it, but the interlocutor is the Minister of Defense, with whom I'm doing very well. Mr López Garrido, may you tell me about the lack of coordination when you tell me that we have not spoken to the Socialist Group... Ask the Socialist Group if we have spoken. They've told you, because I've told the people I've been talking to on the phone. I do not know how much information you have given him, but, believe me, I have a lot of problems with coordinating myself in the Government and with this parliamentary group in order to safeguard the coordination that you make. But, finally, in his case it has been clearly improved. [[Applauds]] I do not have much more to do than thank Mr Tarno for his speech and repeat that if you want me to come to a calm appearance on this subject or on the subjects of employment and wealth, I come. If they want us both to come - we take each other magnificently - we both come; if they want him to come alone, let him come alone. We, as it is said in Mexico, always to order. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u29	Let us move on to the next item, but first of all I want to tell you that there are some organic items on the agenda and I therefore have to set an hour of voting time. The votes will not be before 5 p.m.; I fear they will be a little later, but not before 5 p.m. in any case.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u30	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 8/2015 of 26 June of support measures for the continuity of Barcelona as Mobile World Capital for the period 2019-2023. For the presentation of the royal decree-law, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear on behalf of the Government to ask this House for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law, adopted in the Council of Ministers on 26 June last, by which certain measures are adopted to consolidate the celebration of the Mobile World Capital in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. [[The lady]] It is true that only forty-eight hours ago, fortunately, the company responsible for organizing this global telecommunications event, the GSMA, already adopted at its meeting held in Shanghai the decision for Barcelona to continue to host, at least until 2023 - therefore, five additional years at the time when it was scheduled to end, 2018- of this event. In any case, I want to say that this decision has been due to many factors, but above all to the fact that the whole of the institutions that we have been behind this objective from the beginning, which are the City of Barcelona, the Barcelona Fair, the Generalitat of Catalonia and the Government of Spain, we have all gone hand in hand, we have been united, showing once again that when the institutions go together, when we come together, when we combine efforts we always win all, as in this case where Barcelona wins, Catalonia wins, Spain wins, Spain wins the telecommunications sector because this is the most important element that in this matter is celebrated every year in our country and, therefore, the Spanish economy wins. Only in the 2014 edition the World Mobile Congress in Barcelona moved slightly more than 436 million euros, which went directly to the economy of the city of Barcelona. Barcelona alone to participate or attend this event passed some 94,000 people from some 200 different countries. As I told you before, this is one of the most important events in this field in the world every year. This is not only good from the point of view of the wealth generated in Barcelona and Catalonia, but also from the point of view of what it means for the telecommunications sector. Many things are happening very quickly in this sector. There have been many changes, many transformations, many modifications over the last few years at a geometric rate, but now the great novelty is that these changes occur at an exponential rate. Every day the changes that occur in this field will be more important and, within these changes, an event of this nature helps to consolidate the work and the notorious effort that the telecommunications companies in Spain are making and all the startups that in the digital economy are emerging and consolidating in Spain. Therefore, this is a good opportunity for the Congress of Deputies to give unanimous support to this royal decree-law which, I insist, demonstrates and demonstrates once again that when the institutions in Spain go hand in hand, we work together and we all go to one to the same goal, we always win. This is what we have done by hand the City of Barcelona, the Fair of Barcelona, the Generalitat of Catalonia and the Government of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u32	Thank you, Minister. Mr Tardà has the floor on the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are actually going to vote in favour of this royal decree just presented by the minister; in fact, it is part of what is already protocolized, it is not something that is outside the road map of what has meant this great triumph, a triumph that has not been easy since there have been many competitors. The first works were done when - forgive the petulance - Republican Left was in the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, together with other political forces, in order and effect to reach the birth in 2010 of what has been shown to have been a great success, that is, the Mobile World Congress, and we have to value how hard the competition was, see that it had to compete against thirty cities and that in the final stage we compete against Paris, Munich and Milan. In fact, I do not deny the Minister's words, but I also want to highlight - and forgive, but there is not a single glimpse of chauvinism - the ability of Catalan society and Barcelona society to intuit, to see where many energies should be focused according to modernity and the possibility that offered everything that was intended to be implemented in order to turn Catalonia, Barcelona, into a logistic hub in relation to new technologies. This has been the case and things will have been well done when, although there have been logical attempts by some cities to take over Barcelona, we have been able - and the minister has announced with satisfaction - to consolidate the project in Catalonia for the next few years. It is true that the economic impact is extraordinary - we are talking about 3.5 billion over the years - but it is also true that there are issues that must still be part of what has been achieved or what should be achieved in the coming times. We must get it to affect the industrial fabric and it is also important to identify the new business opportunities; that is, that everything that emerges from the congress and to consider Barcelona the capital of mobile has to have an impact on the consolidation of companies related to the new technologies. We should not consider it a great event that has arrived and is happening; it must be consolidated and that means rooting it in the Catalan industrial fabric. This also relates to institutional loyalty. It cannot be that some companies related to the new technologies that are installed in Catalonia, Barcelona, in parallel to everything that is being done to turn Barcelona - I repeat - into the European and global hub in relation to the new technologies, are being relocated, even within the same Spanish state; it does not make much sense. And some of these companies - we have experienced it in recent months in Barcelona and in Hospitalet de Llobregat - even formed by other companies that have had a relationship, if not of privilege, yes a somewhat exquisite relationship with the administrations. Here there is a certain contradiction, a certain contradiction, which does not mean that it cannot be solved; all contradictions are born to be solved, but there is this problem. There are challenges and objectives to be achieved, and before it related to some of them, but it is true that some should not be too difficult. We must socialize before the citizens of Barcelona and Catalonia what this event means and we must try to create quality jobs because it is precisely a sector that generates quality jobs, which generates intelligence and strategic capabilities for the immediate future, and also allows us to attract talent and foreign investment. It is important that all this is socialized in so far as it still needs to be achieved today - it would be stupid not to acknowledge that it has not yet been done too much and here the Catalan institutions and the Barcelona City Hall themselves have a lot of responsibility - that the citizens of Barcelona feel very much about it and at the same time see the immediate benefits of all this; that is to say, we must look at the citizens. In short, Minister, everyone here takes advantage of what you can and you, in the face of a success such as Barcelona, the world capital of mobile, take advantage to say that together better and that all this is the fruit of this unity. The speech could be reversed: we have done so, despite the difficulties - more or less - faced on this subject, because although I must admit that less on this subject, we could set out to you a list of issues in which there has not been too much collaboration, too much loyalty on the part of the Spanish Government, from the policies related to infrastructures - and I will not only refer to the Mediterranean corridor, also related to the financing of Catalonia - until, for example, the eternal debate on how it affects the Catalan economy, and hence the subject that we are dealing with today, everything related to the port of Barcelona and its unexecuted infrastructures or the eternal debate on the tolls of motorways. But in this case we don't have any pain in clothing, what needs to be done is to give support to this royal decree presented by the Minister of Industry and we are going to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u34	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. The Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy has the floor, Mr Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u35	Thank you, Madam President. My group will also vote in favour of this royal decree-law for two reasons. The first is so extraordinary that I want to highlight it. It seems to me that it is the first royal decree-law with meaning of this legislature and constitutionally justified; that is, it actually contains only one measure, because I want to remember that there was another in October 2012 that contained twenty-nine legal changes. This is nothing more than the signing of an agreement that had the requirements of urgency and necessity, so we will support it, and also, of course, because we agree that the Mobile World Capital event will be held in Barcelona. But, as there has been a reflection on this, I would like to abound in the matter. It is not true that Barcelona is the world capital of mobile, we would like it; simply, if this agreement is signed and its conditions extended, it is precisely because neither Barcelona, nor any other place in Spain, nor in general in Europe, is the world capital of mobile. I insist, we would like to do so; precisely because we must ensure particularly favourable conditions, we must make agreements that are attractive for the organization of these kinds of events. The rest is a vision of the pallets of these things. That is to say, neither Barcelona is the world capital of mobile, nor Spain is the world capital of mobile telephony or anything like it; simply, we offer interesting conditions with the collaboration of several administrations and to hold an event like this are made this kind of agreements. Seeing it differently would certainly be quite pathetic self-deception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u36	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left will support the ratification of the agreements for the renewal of the designation of Barcelona as the world capital of mobile telephony for the period 2019-2023. The agreement signed between the Government of the State, the Generalitat de Catalunya and the City of Barcelona with the World Association of Mobile Phone Operators, known as the GSMA - a global association that brings together more than 800 mobile telephone operators from the world, leading companies in telecommunications - allows the city of Barcelona to be the world capital of mobile telephony and headquarters of the World Congress of Mobile Phones, which we popularly know as Mobile World Congresses. With the declaration of Barcelona as Mobile World Capital, until 2023 Barcelona is not only the official headquarters of the aforementioned congress, but also the headquarters of a whole series of parallel actions and projects to promote technological mobility projects and companies throughout the year. It is clear that the mobile conference offers an opportunity for Spanish companies, opening up a multitude of opportunities to compete and export successful business initiatives. It is equally true that the positive impact of Barcelona Mobile World Capital has been increased year by year. In the 2014 congress, revenues were estimated at about four hundred million euros, 12,300 temporary jobs, 30 million euros of collection and more than 93,000 visitors. A side effect of the permanence of the mobile telephony congress in Barcelona and Catalonia is that in Catalonia, according to official data, the number of workers engaged in information and communication technologies has increased by 12.7% since 2011 and the number of companies related to the sector has increased by 13% over the same period. It is clear, and Minister Soria has made reference to it, that the agreement has been made possible by the commitment of all the administrations; institutional cooperation - I insist - is, has been and must continue to be key in these projects that are so important to the Spanish economy. The Barcelona Mobile World Capital Foundation, which is the one that brings together the whole movement that is generated around the mobile phone congress, is attended by the General Administration of the State, the Generalitat of Catalonia and the City of Barcelona. It is clear that this foundation, the development of the congress and the parallel activities must have a clear factor of control and transparency. The Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left shares most of the objectives of the Mobile World Capital Foundation, but we doubt some aspects that have so far been present in the development of the Congress, such as the lack of public objectives of the foundation and insufficient transparency in management - let us not forget that the foundation is nourished by public funds - the precariousness of the employment generated or the fact that it is a bank of proof of private interests, without clear returns for the whole of the citizenry. We must not overlook the fact - not anecdotal - that the salaries of the management team of the foundation doubled between 2012 and 2013, from 277,409 euros went to 581,899 euros; in the current times it is not baladí the comment and it is not baladí the information. It is clear that Mobile has a budgetary impact. Each administration that participates in the concertation, institutional cooperation, will contribute 5 million euros per year, 15 million euros that, for five years that we are talking about, would be 75 million euros. But it is also that the celebration of the world mobile congress has a series of tax exemptions as it is considered an event of public interest; Minister Soria himself affirmed it in his day. Mobile is covered by the tax regime reserved for non-profit entities and currently has tax exemptions ranging from 15% in corporate tax and IRPF to 95% in economic activity tax. There is, therefore, an effort by the Spanish society, the whole of the citizenry, the Spanish public administration and, consequently, they have to necessarily reverse the performance of the congress in the whole of the citizenry. According to the royal decree, there is no gender impact. Just a hue; though a hue, important. The quality of the jobs created must be ensured, because most of them are precarious, temporary and feminized; 90% of the stewardesses are women, while the most important positions of the companies are men. The gender impact in any case would have to be reflected in an improvement in the working conditions of the world, men and women as well. We shared the objectives of the mayor of Barcelona, Ada Colau, when she referred to the redistribution of the benefits that Mobile generates. Once the continuity of the congress and the capital of Barcelona is assured, an equally important challenge is now opened, which is to improve and expand the economic and social impact of this great event in the city of Barcelona and its metropolitan area. Mobile needs to be used to better redistribute the wealth it generates to the whole city and metropolitan environment and to develop a local industry linked to new mobile technologies that has more social, environmental and sustainable applications. It would be highly desirable for these commitments to strengthen the relations and work of industry and our universities in developing innovation projects. In this sense the experience lived in the city of Barcelona regarding 22@ would be an example with its lights and shadows. But also the administrations must fulfil their commitments and not only the economic commitments directly related to the Barcelona congress or the capitality of mobile telephony, but those commitments that indirectly affect the development and quality of the congress. The mobility of people and the smooth functioning of public transport is one of the improvements that the organizers of the Mobile World Congress continually make. The week of the congress puts in check the operation of the public transport and the access to Barcelona, especially in the environment of the contest. It should be remembered that in the debt of the agreement of the Mobile signed in 2011 is included the active bet for 2016 of the line 9 of the metro from the airport to the fair, in addition to other improvements regarding the public transport of both metro and bus. An activity such as Mobile needs public transport, but the rest of the activities of the Barcelona metropolis need it every day, so the level of investment made by the State in 2011 should be recovered, this contribution increased, in addition to investing in close proximity the 4 billion committed from which only 13 % has been executed. In short - and I am finishing, ladies and gentlemen - the Plural Left agrees with the Royal Decree-Law 8/2015 for the world capital of Barcelona in mobile telephony and the corresponding commitments for the period 2019-2023. As we consider important for Barcelona and its metropolitan area, we understand that we must take advantage of the sustainability, until 2023, to generate synergies between the public and private sectors that empower the Spanish information and communication technology industry, but also to redistribute the returns, the wealth generated by the Mobile World Congress and the capitality of Barcelona for the benefit of the citizens of Barcelona as a whole and its metropolitan area; that we must take advantage to develop a new model of management that is more transparent, with greater public control, that generates quality employment, that stimulates the participation of the university sector in the development of knowledge and experimentation of communication and information technologies, and that we must also take advantage to strengthen institutional cooperation and the fulfilment of those commitments that the State has acquired in the financing of public transport in Barcelona...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u38	Mr. Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u39	I'm done, Madam President. ... and its metropolitan area or in relation to the investment in the outstanding railway infrastructure, all for the benefit of the World Congress of Mobile Phones, the Spanish industry and, above all, the more than three and a half million citizens living in Barcelona and its metropolitan area. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u40	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Moya. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, first of all, Mr Picó.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this royal decree-law the Government of the State ratified the protocol signed jointly with the Generalitat de Catalunya, with the City of Barcelona and the Mobile World Capital Foundation for the renewal of the designation of the city of Barcelona as Mobile World Capital for the period 2019-2023. Last March an initiative of our parliamentary group, the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i de Unió, defended by Mrs Riera demanded from the government its commitment to extend beyond 2018 the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. This royal decree-law fulfills this mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law shows, first of all, that it is an example of good work, of collaboration between the various administrative levels - the Minister said - the Government of the State, the Generalitat de Catalunya and the Ajuntament de Barcelona. When the three administrations work together, synergies are created that place us on the global map. And I would also like to quote the important role of the Fira de Barcelona, with its director, Don Agustín Cordón. Secondly, it is an example of good work between different political forces. It started with the socialist government, continued with the government of the People's Party, Convergence i Unió has always led it in Catalonia and also in the city council and now, despite the initial difficulties, the new consistory has also joined the project. The previous mayor of Barcelona, Don Xavier Trias, and all his team also added, and in that sense I would like to remind the second lieutenant mayor, Dona Sonia Recassens, of my party, who presented a proposal to keep both the mobile congress and the world capital until 2023. With this royal decree-law the three administrations give decisive support to the expansion until 2023 of the Mobile World Congress. Therefore, it is certainly good news. We can talk about different perspectives of this capital of Barcelona. From the perspective of the figures, as the Minister said, there have been more than 94,000 attendees, more than 2,000 exhibitors and it is estimated that the event has generated more than 436 million euros and the creation of more than 12,000 jobs. The activity of Mobile World Capital, its vitality through the projects it promotes and develops, highlight both the existing innovative capacity and the scope and dimension of the technological transformation that we are currently experiencing and that forces us to act and to be able to anticipate that revolution. We can also talk from the perspective of the major product launches or the CEO conferences of the most innovative companies, but the most important of all is that with the capitality of Barcelona at the Mobile World Congress a hub of innovation and digital mobile knowledge is created, which contributes to have a new industrial account with the dynamism of the ecosystem of entrepreneurs, mobile and digital base startups, the attraction of talent and human capital - very important thing - the creation of value and as engine for the development and internationalization of the entire business fabric of the territory. Mr Pérez Moya, you know very well that there is a technological fabric in Barcelona because it has been promoted a lot since the City of Barcelona and from the Generalitat of Catalonia, and with this royal decree, with the capitality, it is consolidated and grows much more without a doubt. We cannot doubt that the digital economy today is a main axis of economic transformation, with direct impacts on the industrial sector and the services sector, but it is important to say that it is also an axis of social transformation, with cultural, educational, educational, health or communication impacts, where the main risk to avoid is the so-called digital divide. It therefore has not only economic but also social impacts of social transformation, in order to improve the quality of life of citizens. With this royal decree we continue, until 2023, the possibility of having all this in Barcelona. It's a good decision. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u42	Thank you, Mr. Picó. Mrs. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u43	President, ladies and gentlemen, today in this plenary we are debating and validating this royal decree. Yesterday we received the magnificent news that confirmed the continuity of Mobile until 2023, something we sincerely rejoiced about. We congratulate all those who have made it possible, thanks to the work of recent years, to the conviction of the asset represented by the Mobile and to the support and work carried out in these years for which he has been mayor of Barcelona, Javier Trias, and for his team, by the Ministry of Industry and the Secretary of State for Telecommunications and by the Generalitat of Catalonia. It is an example of work carried out with great complicity, commitment, respect and coordination, sharing a common goal, which was and is the success and consolidation of what Mobile represents. But all this would not have been possible without the participation, commitment and determination from the zero minute of a fourth actor, the Fira de Barcelona, with its director general at the head, Agustín Cordón, who has played a decisive role in these years, performing exceptional work year after year on the occasion of the congress and days after day through the impulse of the activity of Mobile World Capital. This joint work, ladies and gentlemen, has led to the promotion and consolidation of the activity, prestige and recognition of Mobile World Capital and has generated the confidence and credibility necessary for the GSMA to be able to renew the event in Barcelona until 2023. Renewal and continuity are a great opportunity and require all Administrations. For this reason, the royal decree that we validate today is of great importance to us, as it responds to this commitment and to the support to which I referred. In Convergence we feel, and I personally as a spokesman for Telecommunications, very proud of having believed from the first moment on in this project and of having participated in its impulse and consolidation. We feel part of it and share success. We have believed in the role of telecommunications in transforming our economy and society. We have believed in the role played by the private sector, but also in the necessary public participation as a driving force for change. In this sense, Mobile has been and is a good example of public-private collaboration. A few weeks ago, we adopted a motion tabled by my Parliamentary Group on Convergence and Union, in which, among other things, we reiterated our commitment to Mobile World Capital and support for the activity and projects promoted by the Foundation. President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are experiencing a process of change that has much of its raison d'être on the Internet, on mobility and on digital transformation, and Europe has understood this. The digital economy is driving an economic and social transformation that is cross-cutting and structural, that affects all sectors and that is disruptively changing the way we collaborate, in which we work, in which we relate and share information, promoting new economic activities and new ways to relate. Therefore, it is strictly necessary not only to push forward policies such as the digital agenda and measures that guide this process of change and help our companies and society to adapt to these changes, but also to support and strengthen all those instruments that contribute to the technological development and drive of the digital economy. Today, ladies and gentlemen, one of these instruments is the Mobile World Capital and the Mobile World Congress, which is its maximum expression. The Mobile World Capital is creating - as also said the spokesman of Unió Democrática - an ecosystem with a very high innovative and technological value through the mobile and digital base startups that are generated and the technology that develops and reaches multiple economic sectors and society. It is a dynamism of the ecosystem of entrepreneurs through the attraction of digital acceleration programs that come from all over the world and attract talent and capital. The aim is to create a hub for innovation and digital mobile knowledge and also to have a new industrial account. To this end, ladies and gentlemen, the best annual event, such as the congress, allows us to visualize the power of this transformation and shows the speed, depth and scope of digital transformation and the opportunities it creates for citizens, businesses and the whole of our economy. Our economy, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, President - I am finishing - looks at change, looks at added value and looks at a new competitiveness based on innovation. In this process of economic and social growth, instruments such as the one represented by Mobile play a decisive role and show, through the projects that drive the existing innovative capacity and the scope and dimension of the technological transformation that we live in. As I said at the time, our firm commitment to democratic convergence in Catalonia for the digital economy, by joining us in this transformation, leads us to appreciate very positively the validation of this royal decree-law that strengthens and consolidates the asset represented by Mobile World Capital and reaffirms us in our firm initial commitment to consolidate the excellence and value it represents. If I have to visualize this commitment and determination in one person, I will do so in the so far mayor of Barcelona Xavier Trias. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Riera. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Muñoz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u45	Thank you, President. The first thing we must do today is to congratulate Barcelona, to congratulate and to congratulate all the institutions and political forces that from the beginning we have contributed to making Barcelona the world capital of mobile. The city of Barcelona will host the world congress of mobile and capital until 2023. Before the GSMA yesterday, the GSM association made its unanimous decision to extend the Barcelona contract until that date. Barcelona still has both issues, both sides: the world congress and the world capitality of mobile, which is good news. Employment, innovation, networking, contacts, opportunities, businesses, income, visits, recognition, would be labels that would put this news. That Barcelona is the world capital of mobile has benefits for the city, the consolidation of Barcelona linked to the innovation brand and the generation of jobs and opportunities. Barcelona is considered an innovative city, in fact it got world recognition as E-commerce Capital in 2014 and this generates more support for the city: for example, European fund revenue and investment aid. Having the brand innovation helps to be mobile capital and celebrate the world congress. In addition, Barcelona's mobile capital contributes to the generation of employment and opportunities and I will give some of the data on the economic impact of capital. From the very celebration of the mobile that last year had 93,000 visitors or an annual economic impact of 450 million euros, the creation of 6,000 jobs annually or the hotel occupation of one hundred percent. From the beginning, the concept of Barcelona's capital of mobile and foundation has not only been to organize the world congress or to organize an event, but also to promote a whole series of projects to generate employment, to generate business fabric ICT and opportunities in the city and in the environment of Barcelona, such as the Global Mobile Centre in the Plaza de Catalunya, which has 7,000 visitors every week or the programs that there is of entrepreneurship and innovation, from the MS Startup with 1,500 square meters of facilities intended for new projects on technology, events for the mobile ecosystem or to connect actions and investments for new projects. In addition, there is a programme in the field of education in which 11,000 students from the city participated during the last school year. These data support the positive economic impacts, but it is true that actions related to the management of the foundation must be deepened in order to generate more opportunities for all people. I have to say that in the Socialist Group we are particularly proud and proud that Barcelona remains the world capital of mobile, because this project has socialist fathers and mothers, or fathers and mothers of left-wing governments. Let me rectify, the project has three parents, and it is that Barcelona exercises world capital since 2006, when Mayor Clos, President Maragall and President Zapatero achieved this fact, and in 2011 the project, led by Mayor Hereu, President Montilla and President Zapatero, won the capital. In addition, at that time we won against cities as important as Munich, Paris and Milan. It is true that at that time there was consensus among all political forces and that Governments have continued, despite political changes, to support this fact. We also feel identified with another fact, and we welcome the success of this issue as an excellent example of collaboration between the institutions. It would be a good example of the practical application of federalism: the City of Barcelona, the Generalitat de Catalunya and the Government of the State rowing each from their competences to common facts. In fact, I was pleased to hear in this debate a Popular Party minister talk about winning Barcelona, winning Catalonia and winning Spain, and even Mr Tardà appreciate that all administrations have contributed to some extent. We have never had any doubts about this issue, about the fact that the world capital of mobile had to remain in Barcelona. In fact, if he had stopped clearly betting on Mobile we could have seen the congress flee to Milan, a city that competes for the economic leadership with Barcelona in the Mediterranean, and it would be very difficult to explain in Barcelona and in the metropolitan environment of the province, where there is 19% unemployment, that we allowed ourselves the luxury to despise an economic injection of 440 million in a year. We had and are very clear about the model for the city of Barcelona, a clearly social-democratic model: to bet on generating wealth and opportunities and to earn revenue for public administrations in the interests of redistribution and social justice. And if anyone has doubts about their institutional inexperience or the lack of information about the true dimension of the mobile capital of the world, I must say that once again we have worked for consensus among all political forces and for there to be a great bet and a great support in relation to the continuity of the candidacy that we have achieved. In this sense, on 3 June, after the elections and before the inauguration of the new mayor, there was public support from six of the municipal groups of the city of Barcelona - all but the CUPs - in favor of the candidacy, giving a clear message to the outside of cross-cutting support of all the political forces and the city to this fact, and before yesterday the continuity of the project was confirmed. In Barcelona during the last year 41,000 people worked in the ICT sector and during this same period there has been a 15% increase in the number of jobs in the sector; double, for example, that in the tourism sector, therefore, economic diversification and an increase in the most competitive sectors constitute the model of the city, which results in actions such as 22@ or the Barcelona World Capital Foundation of Mobile Telephony. With regard to the decree, it is clear that we supported and believed in the need for a decree-law to regulate this issue because of the need for speed and the legal certainty required by the agreement. Finally, I would like to say that the Socialist Group is going to vote in favour of the real decree, which supports Barcelona as the world's mobile capital. I expect a majority support, if it can be unanimous, from Congress towards this decree, which is the clearest way to endorse the project and to continue to obtain cross-cutting support for projects that mean competitive jobs, given that Barcelona Capital del Móvil represents income to the area, employment opportunities and extension of technology and, therefore, more opportunities and quality employment for citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Muñoz. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Esteller.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I want to begin as some groups that have preceded me in the use of the floor have begun, congratulating us on having achieved the renewal of the Mobile for the years 2019 to 2023, which represents a great challenge and a recognition of the institutional cooperation effort between the Government of Spain, the City of Barcelona, the Generalitat de Catalunya, the Fira de Barcelona and private companies. It's the best sign of the strength we have as a country when we all work together. This is the best force, therefore, we must continue to work in all the companies that are necessary in order to strengthen our country and to position ourselves in a very competitive world, where cities have a lot of weight and where the decisions that are made are very important and of enormous importance. That is why, Mrs Muñoz, I would like to thank you for not politicizing Mobile because it is a success of the institutions, apart from the party that is at the time in government. It forgets private initiative and forgets the Fair, and it is very important to strengthen the institutions, apart from the party that is at the time. It is a theme of all that gives us strength in the competition of cities all over the world. The real decree-law that we are discussing today reinforces the commitment of the Spanish Government to Barcelona and highlights the importance of Barcelona Mobile in the framework of the collaboration and institutional relevance of our country. This royal decree-law was necessary for several reasons, on the one hand legal certainty, to ratify the agreements of the relationship of renewal and then also for the characteristics of the extension of the agreement whose signature is authorized in this royal decree, since this renewal includes certain budgetary, procedural and relational aspects with other public administrations and very complex. Legal certainty is crucial and this force has been very necessary in consolidating and renewing the Mobile. That is why the support this House is offering for this renewal is also very important. Let me highlight the success that has already been mentioned here of the ten editions of the Mobile Congress, which has been held in Barcelona since 2006 and has become an event of telecommunications and the digital economy of the most important in Europe and the world. It has great significance, not only from the point of view of the development of telecommunications, technologies and the information society, but also from the point of view of tourism and the image of Spain abroad, by associating it with attributes of our country as technology and mobility can be. It is an asset at the service of technological and digital development, with an important economic and social impact. Proof of this is the growing number of congressmen, senior managers and qualified professionals, who come from more than 200 countries that drive the technology of the future and come to Barcelona to do business or contemplate the latest advances in the digital economy, as well as the number of companies that will expose technological advances. In its last edition, in March 2015, it brought together more than 94,000 visitors from 200 countries and more than 2,000 companies exhibited their products, consolidating itself as the world's largest mobile technology fair. The figures and revenues have been mentioned here, but I do not want to fail to highlight the 436 million revenues of 2015, which have had a significant economic impact, and the amount accumulated since 2006 amounts to 2.5 billion euros and 60,000 temporary jobs. This has a huge hold for a city because it is not only a part of the economy that benefits, it benefits the fabric of the city such as taxi drivers, restaurants, bars... This impact is very important, so much so that even the current Barcelona government has changed its mind, as they initially rejected the Mobile because they did not consider it an appropriate event, but they have changed their mind, which is appreciated and celebrated because it has given us the strength necessary to achieve this renewal. Therefore, I would like to stress that Barcelona Mobile World Capital has an important drag-on effect for the entire Spanish economy because it is transforming business models and offers the opportunity for Spanish companies to take advantage of the power of innovation and technology. When we talk about the digital economy, we refer not only to a sector, but to the productive model that incorporates the digital economy, which is what makes it much more competitive, which makes it possible for us to compete more. Competent official studies say that the digital economy will grow by 216% in Spain. Therefore, Mobile is a great tool for harnessing its potential, promoting social transformation and improving citizens' lives through entrepreneurship, education, health and smart cities, and also for positioning Barcelona as a mobility reference. As has already been mentioned, the city is hosting more and more local and international entrepreneurs and startups that boost the entrepreneurial ecosystem, the mobile and digital startup system and contribute to giving value to all companies. This transformation requires action. He said it was a great challenge, but we have to take a step forward, because it is very important to position Barcelona, Catalonia and Spain on the international map as a unique and innovative entrepreneurial ecosystem. We must get it to take root; we must try to facilitate and promote the digital entrepreneurial fabric to take root and grow in Barcelona, attracting and retaining talent, and for that we must strengthen our cosmopolitanism and abandon some localisms that today also take root in society. We must therefore strengthen the cosmopolitanism that Barcelona has always had, abandon localism and some barriers that are preventing certain institutions or companies from coming to our city, which has a strategic point in southern Europe. Therefore, it is very important to carry out all these issues: enhance technology transfer and appreciation, attract the best acceleration programs to boost the arrival of new entrepreneurs, new talent, investments from all over the world, and provide the opportunity for academics and professionals to join business projects. They have commented that the infrastructures are very important, and of course they are, but I would like to tell you, Mr Tardà, that you permanently have a number of topics and, although it changes reality, it keeps them: because it speaks of the port, when the works of the port that had never been done are being carried out; it speaks of infrastructures that are being carried out. I would therefore be grateful if you would influence the Generalitat to build line 9, which is paralyzed and which is so necessary and important for the mobility of the metropolitan environment. The works are being carried out, the Government of Spain has a commitment to Barcelona from the point of view of technology and infrastructure, as is being demonstrated throughout this legislature. I want to end as I started, highlighting the work and complicity of all the institutions, of private companies, of the model of public-private collaboration, which has allowed the Barcelona World Capital to lead the world capital of mobile and which is an example of business collaboration with the institutions in the city of Barcelona. This is the clear example that when we work together, together we add together efforts and we can attract great things for Spain, for Catalonia and in this case also for Barcelona. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Esteller.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u49	We continue with the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Is there a group that wants to intervene? [[Pause]] Mr Nuet, for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u50	Thank you, President. In order to follow the correct tradition that we have established in this legislature not to trivialise international conventions and treaties, my group announces that it will vote in favour of the four conventions. I wanted to highlight very briefly the Treaty of Marrakech, which facilitates access to public works for blind, visually impaired and other persons with difficulties. My group is convinced that this is a very important step forward, a small step towards ensuring that people with visual and other disabilities have normalized their access to normal life for others who do not have such disabilities. Therefore, it is an important agreement for a social group in our country that needs news like this. Please, I ask that this agreement not go unnoticed because it is a drop of water in the middle of the desert. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u51	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Other groups that want to intervene? By Convergence, Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wish to speak, on behalf of the Convergence and Union Group, also in relation to the Marrakesh Treaty, because it is a relevant treaty on which twenty Member States are required to deposit the signature. It is a treaty of 27 June 2013; it is July 2015; it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we have not been the first, but it is very remarkable and it is a very good instrument. Let me briefly read just one preambular paragraph. I quote: Aware of the challenges that are detrimental to the integral development of persons with visual disabilities or other difficulties in accessing the printed text that limit their freedom of expression, including the freedom to collect, receive and disseminate information and ideas of all kinds on an equal basis with others through any form of communication of their choice, as well as their enjoyment of the right to education and the opportunity to carry out research. - End of the date. Ladies and gentlemen, with this brief reference, we already see that the Treaty of Marrakech is a good instrument of social inclusion, of equity, of equal opportunities also for blind people. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in the previous parliamentary term we have made progress through the reform of the Electoral Law in the secret vote for the blind. Until the reform of the previous legislature, the vote for the blind was made through a trusted person who helped them choose the ballot. The publication of Braille ballots was a great advance of the previous legislature, but of that reform, which is in line with the sensitivity expressed by the vote on this treaty, the guarantee of the secret vote for the blind also remained pending in the municipal elections. Recently, we have faced municipal elections and the mandate for the reform of the Electoral Law could not be applied in the vote for municipal elections. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made progress on these fronts; this international treaty is a good instrument for the access of blind people to literary productions, but I would also like to take this opportunity to recall some outstanding subjects that I hope can be addressed in the future. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u53	Thank you, Mr. Xuclà. Mrs Jiménez, from the Socialist Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. As usual, my parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of the four international conventions which are now under discussion, but, as Mr Xuclà has already done, I would like to briefly pause for the significance of one of them in the Marrakesh Treaty to facilitate access to works published to blind people, with visual disabilities or other difficulties in accessing a printed text. It is a World Intellectual Property Organization treaty that provides access to published works for persons with visual disabilities and persons with difficulty in accessing a printed text. What is intended is to give a legal nature to voice synthesis, which performs a transformation of textual content to audio format and avoid legal conflicts, as audio output is considered a transformation of the original work. In short, it is intended to make intellectual property rights compatible with the rights of persons with visual or blind disabilities, which, in the case of Spain, will mainly have an effect on cross-border exchange, since the Intellectual Property Act already provides for persons with disabilities to use works protected by intellectual property rights without authorization under certain conditions. We are pleased to note with the most relevant organisations, especially ONCE and Cermi, that Spain and Portugal have been the two countries that have most strongly supported this proposal. I would also like to express my satisfaction that we were able to bring, before the start of the new session, the formal request made by Cermi to the Committee on Foreign Affairs that we include this important convention on the agenda as soon as possible. Our parliamentary group will therefore vote in favour of the four conventions, but, above all, we would like to express our satisfaction at the fact that today we approve this convention which is so important for people who are affected by some kind of visual disability. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Jiménez. People's Group. [[Denial]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u56	We turn to the next point, amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill amending the system of protection for children and adolescents. In the course of fixing positions, first of all, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u57	Thank you, Madam President. It is my first contact with this law so relevant as it is not between us doña Isabel Sánchez Robles because he is working in another institution. I'm going to try to be a recipient of some of your arguments that I find interesting in relation to this law. [[I see that the Minister is coming, and I thank him for that.]] This law, in the first place, has novel things that we will highlight. The Senate has introduced through three new final provisions - tenth, eleventh and twelfth - something that is particularly relevant to me in cases where the General Social Security Act is amended in section 175 to deprive those convicted of a criminal offence of murder of the victim of the death and survival benefit of those who have been sentenced for a final sentence. I think this contribution from the Senate is very good, Minister. It also relates it to passive classes, since for the protection of this same contingency it is provided for the deprivation of death and survival benefits. The establishment of the central register of sex offenders is equally relevant to us. Minister, such a register should not be incompatible with records already in existence in those autonomous communities which have comprehensive police and police powers that develop them. The data from these registers could be coordinated and compatible because it is important to manage and knowledge the sexual offenders as we are talking about a social pathology of great relevance that should be repressed from the knowledge of which they are from the registration of them. Having said that, Minister, today we are faced with a terribly complex law from the perspective of the normative sources that legitimise it. Some sources are public international law, others are private international law, we are talking about international conventions, the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, the convention that has been incorporated in the Senate for the Protection of Children and Adolescents in this case at European level, the Hague Convention on Intercountry Adoption and other conventions that legitimize these General Courts to regulate these matters as long as they constitute the competence of the State. Alongside this, we find the latest specific legislation for the protection of minors of 1996, which is legislation that allows the attribution of powers to the State - in those aspects that we may consider organic for developing fundamental rights and the best interests of the child, of course, it is a fundamental right that must be developed by an organic law, and we are not going to deny the competence of the State in regulating these matters - but there are also others that refer to the reception, the situations in which the protection of minors is disaggregated as different situations of filiation, the reception, the adoption, the custody, particularly the guardianship, and others that may be subject to regulation for a reason that you know perfectly well, Minister, that is the existence of civil rights of your own or of an autonomous nature different from the forecasts of filiation and of these situations linked to the protection of minors and adolescents different from those provided for in the Spanish Civil Code. There is a Civil Code recently approved by the Basque Parliament and which will enter into force in January in which these situations linked to guardianship, custody, guardianship, foster care and adoption mechanisms do not have the same regulations as the same ones in the Spanish Civil Code. In addition, there is a Civil Code in Aragon, which also has specific and differentiated forecasts in this area, there is a Valencian Civil Code and another Catalan Code, which also have its peculiarities in this area. From this perspective, there is a lack of respect, an adaptation of the mechanisms provided for in this draft law, in relation to the breakdown of situations of parental, phyloparental filiation, which are contained in civil codes other than the Spanish Civil Code. We note that there are complex regulatory problems, which allow for competition asymmetries that must be respected in the area of child protection, for example. This is an outside competition in Euskadi, which you also know very well. There are guardianship institutions for the protection of minors whose powers are not well reflected in this important bill. Moreover, there is a kind of recovery or partial rescue of the State from these powers in the area of child care, through the centres for the protection of minors. With regard to intercountry adoption, you have also used the provisions of the Hague Convention, which regulates intercountry adoption, to enhance State competence in a competence which has been exercised autonomously; in the case of Euskadi, through the outsourced institutions competent in the field of adoption; and not only competent in the field of adoption, but competent in the field of follow-up to adoption. This leads us to a philosophical and conceptual debate that I am not going to devote much time to, but I would like to know why an adoptive father or mother have to believe their suitability to be a mother or father and not a biological mother or father. And why an adoptive father or mother must be followed up on their good work, in relation to the care and education of adopted children, and no similar requirements are required of mothers or biological parents. But this is almost a very complex metaphysical or anthropological debate to articulate in a law, which, on the other hand, is well articulated in general terms, Minister. We have not tabled a full amendment and have originally abstained in the Commission, although we end up voting that we have. The amendments that the Senate is making to us are correct amendments, especially these developments which refer to the deprivation of death and survival benefits when homicides are committed by those who could possibly have benefited from this type of social security benefit. Here, perhaps, we miss a little more belligerence and incorporate in the commission of crimes of murder, also crimes of ill-treatment, crimes of coercion or crimes of injury, which would also legitimize us to deprive us of the enjoyment or the perception of the status of beneficiary of death and survival benefits. Linking to the crime of murder is only a lack of law. In addition, there are a number of readjustments to many of the laws we have passed in this legislature, which have been so fruitful in the legislative sphere and so irregular. If I may, there have been elements of degradation in the way we legislated that we have denounced on more than one occasion and we are concerned. This law must comply with the requirements of the reform of the Civil Procedure Act, the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Act, the requirements of the amendments to the Juvenile Law, the requirements of new conventions, such as the European Convention for the Protection of Children and Adolescents. In short, when legislation is disorderly, legal referrals are also disorderly and make interpretation, the hermeneutic work of laws, considerably complicated for legal operators. In any case, we are faced with a good law. It seems to us that, without prejudice to the fact that there are some qualifications which we should define a little better in the areas I have mentioned to you, Minister, such as the protection of minors, the care of minors, the care of foreign minors - there is also an adjustment to the foreign legislation in relation to foreign minors who have entered the Spanish State irregularly - as well as in the area of international adoption, in which you, in a somewhat exorbitant way, have been granted powers which so far do not correspond to them and which were exercised exclusively by the outside institutions or the autonomous communities in their case. Without prejudice to these problems, we are faced with a good law, which - to conclude, Madam President - perhaps you would miss the incorporation of a holy time - if I may express it - of Christmas policies. In the Spanish state there is an absence, an orphanage, of birth policies with which we are living, and which are causing a serious problem in relation to the maintenance of the public pension system, which is the investment of the population pyramid from a demographic perspective. All that you have done in the field of birth policies is something striking, almost, if I may say so, cunning, as it is to enhance birth through the generation of pension supplements of a contributory nature - or what you define as a contributory nature - to retired persons, to retired mothers who have two or more children. I do not know whether you consider it right to increase birth rate in the age group over sixty-five years or it would not be more appropriate to increase birth rate in that population group than in countries where there are well-configured birth policies it is usually between sixteen and forty years, or between sixteen and thirty-six or thirty-seven years. In other words, there are different references in comparative law.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u58	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u59	Yes, I'm done, Madam President. Births can be enhanced, but this forecast, with this electoralist fumus to encourage or enhance birth through pension supplements to retired people, seems to us, first, a missed opportunity that has a clear electoralist fumus...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u60	Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u61	Here, in this law, we could have done better things about this matter. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u62	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u63	Thank you, President. In the previous procedure, our parliamentary group supported this law because, as we said at the time, it seemed to us to be a necessary law and a general and generally positive law following the incorporation of the amendments of all the groups that were being incorporated, so our vote was favourable at that time. The truth is that most of the amendments - except what I will point out below - virtually all of the amendments that the Senate has incorporated, as is usually the case, are amendments that do not change the substance. Therefore, the whole of this law still deserves the same positive assessment, with the exception of an amendment on which I would like to draw the attention of the People's Parliamentary Group, and particularly the Minister, because we have not found any political explanation to justify it. I am referring to the amendment to the fifth final provision, which deletes two sections of the law and ultimately abolishes the protection of members of large families. The paragraph that was deleted stated that they would have the same consideration for the protection of large families as children who were subjected to permanent or legally constituted foster care or pre-adoptive care. Minors who have been in some of these situations reach the age of majority and remain in the family unit shall retain the status of children in the terms set out in article 3 of this Act. I do not know why they have suppressed that protection in the Senate; I have asked and no one has been able to explain it to me so far. I've been told it was a mistake, I hope so. Since our group has drawn attention to this error, we have called for a separate vote and for it to be replaced by a vote because we did not understand what argument there might be to leave these people and this group unprotected. Moreover, with regard to the amendments which have been tabled and which are approved by the Senate, my group will vote in favour. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Pérez Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u65	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the full debate we have already put forward the idea that we were faced with a missed opportunity to face up to the protection of children and adolescents from an absolutely comprehensive perspective. We continue to believe that this opportunity has been missed, although we must recognize that the passage through the Senate has improved the text adopted by this Congress in the debate on the Commission's opinion on the draft law amending the system of protection for children and adolescents. In this regard, we appreciate the introduction of different amendments tabled by our group that allow the child, for example, to submit complaints to the Committee on the Rights of the Child in defence and guarantee of their rights. We also appreciate that priority has been given to family care to the detriment of the residential community. Similarly, we approve the introduction of an amendment which states that the public authorities shall guarantee the rights and obligations of children and adolescents with disabilities with regard to their custody, guardianship, custody, adoption or similar institutions, ensuring the best interests of the child; or that educational and supervisory measures are put in place to ensure the protection of the personal data of children and adolescents in the case of residential care when accessing information and communication technologies and social networks. We also agree that the child and adolescent have the right to access his or her file and to know the data on his or her biological origins and relatives after reaching the age of majority. We also approve the addition of a new final provision amending Act No. 39/2006 of 14 December 2006 on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for dependent persons, with the aim of amending it in order to declare the economic benefits recognized in that Act unimpedable, except in the case of maintenance. This effectively preserves the interest of children and adolescents to whom the person in dependency may owe food. However, it is not entirely clear what changes are being made to the General Social Security Act adopted by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/1994 of 20 June. This amendment deprives the beneficiary of death and survival benefits who is sentenced to a final sentence for the commission of a criminal offence of murder where the victim is the cause of the benefit. We believe that this is not the place to regulate this type of case, although it is intended to be an exercise to strengthen the fight against gender-based violence and to guarantee the rights of the most vulnerable groups. In short, we agree on the substance of the matter, but we do not understand it to be done in the processing of a children's law. We regret that they did not accept amendments that were necessary for this group to address really important issues in relation to children and adolescents. We do not understand the Government's commitment to maintaining a chapter devoted to regulating the duties of the child and, instead, not strengthening his or her rights. On the other hand, we do not understand that they do not see the need for educators and sociologists in cases of residential care in specific protection centres for children with behavioural problems. Nor can we understand that they do not accept an amendment which we have tabled which went in the direction of stating that an immigrant whose passport or equivalent valid identity document is released from his or her minority cannot be considered an undocumented alien for further proof of his or her age. The passport must not be questioned. The final wording is insufficient for our parliamentary group. Nor do we understand that they have not agreed to introduce into the text of this law that foreign minors who meet the circumstances provided for in the programmes of preparation for independent life are entitled to legal residence in Spain. By not adding this, you will be left without legal residence when you become extolled, and you will be left on the street. At least that is what emerges from the final wording of the text. We have already said in the debate on the opinion that we welcome the decision to accept that this law is enacted under the exclusive competence of the State to enact civil law under article 149.1.8.a of the Spanish Constitution, but without prejudice to the conservation, modification and development by the Autonomous Communities of civil or foreign civil rights where they exist. On the other hand, we also value respect for the exclusive powers of the autonomous communities over the statutory regime of staff in the service of public administrations. However, we cannot understand why they have not agreed to introduce the same safeguard of the competences of the autonomous communities that already have their own civil law in matters of person, family and protection of children and adolescents and youth in order to issue special procedural rules deriving from the particularities of their substantive law in these matters. Similarly, we also do not share the translation to the regulatory development of the criteria for international adoption, hardening them and invading the competences of the autonomous communities that have a model that works frankly well. We continue to think that the creation of a central register of sex offenders is a bottle error. Finally, it is irresponsible to provide that the measures included in this rule cannot entail an increase in public expenditure or in allocations, salaries or other staff costs. It is clear that this bill entails an increase in expenditure in terms of staffing, salaries and staff costs. This contrasts with the evolution of allocations in the State General Budgets, the allocation to children and families, which have been halved since 2011. Therefore, to believe that the application of a law like this can be carried out without increasing budget allocations is to sin of naivety or believe from the beginning that it cannot be applied. Despite the text that comes from the Senate, the positive changes, the improvements introduced and the acceptance of amendments, because of the approaches that we have been questioning and not sharing the wording proposed to us, we will not vote in favour of the text sent by the Senate. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u66	For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, on behalf of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, the parliamentary process of this bill and of entry ends, I would like to point out, and it is no less, despite the vote against Convergence and Democratic Union to the bill, the effort that the rapporteurs of the People's Group have made during the parliamentary process to incorporate amendments from the various groups. Unfortunately, that dialogue which has been positive in many respects has not been positive in those reasons which led to the presentation of our amendments to the whole, and therefore we can hardly support that text. The Senate has incorporated some improvements to that proposed by the Congress of Deputies. The right to lodge complaints with the Committee on the Rights of the Child as an incorporated amendment is no less. Family care has been strengthened in the face of institutional care. There is a mandate for public administrations to develop specific plans in this area and the idea is reinforced that for children up to six years the choice of families is better than the residential option. Issues not directly linked to the bill are incorporated. There is a mandate on family impact in all legislation. It seems to us an important contribution, but we warn that if the practical consequence is the same as that of gender impacts, we will simply face a purely formality that does not serve so that we can effectively know the impact our legislation has on certain public policies or in certain areas. This very week in the Toledo Pact we looked at the gender impacts of pension reforms and it became clear that gender impacts are not working as mandates when drafting our legislation. I hope that this incorporation into the family will have a substantive content. We share the strengthening of the fight against gender-based violence with the exclusion of survival benefits for those responsible for the malicious murders of their partners. Having made these considerations, which, I insist, are positive, it said that what motivated the amendments to the whole of Convergence i Union has not been resolved during the parliamentary process and even in the Senate process has worsened the treatment of the bill to the issue of intercountry adoption. It has worsened to the extent that not only does the State enter into autonomous powers to date, but also the mandate to a regulatory development by the Government of the provisions of the law, both in the registration of complaints and in all adoption procedures, leaves no room for action for autonomous governments. The Catalan Government since the time of our colleague, Mrs Tarruella, has developed a real state structure in order to build, in collaboration with the General Administration of the State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a public policy of international adoption that has worked properly and properly, but the option of the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group liquidates the Catalan model of international adoptions. Ladies and gentlemen, in the parliamentary debates we have had so far, neither the Minister nor the Secretary of State nor the Director-General nor the rapporteurs of the People's Parliamentary Group have given us any reason that we can understand. When they have tried to formulate these considerations, they have appealed to the Law on Foreign Action; a law which clashs head-on with all the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which clearly states that, in those areas in which they are competent, autonomous communities may have foreign action. The exclusive nature of the State's foreign policy does not prevent autonomy from developing its own policies in those areas in which it is competent. In this regard, the Foreign Action Act, together with this bill that we are going to pass, is intended to end a model of success in Catalonia and will seriously undermine the development of international adoption policies in our country. I dare say that this is a step backwards before 1960, when, in the middle of Francoism, Catalan civil law was accepted in the area of adoption, which we expanded and developed in the 1980s and 1990s on the basis of the competences laid down in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. That which Francoism accepted in 1960 and that during democracy we have expanded today the majority of the People's Party will liquidate it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a real constitutional reform introduced through this particular matter and through this bill. That, ladies and gentlemen, leads us to reject frontally a bill that we could share many other aspects of. The draft law also retains in most articles the character of a basic state norm. In Catalonia in recent years we have made a solid, powerful and wide-ranging development of Catalan civil law in Catalonia, but there too the People's Group has opted for an interpretation as restrictive as possible or, from the other point of view, as intrusive as possible of the basic nature of this regulation. This will create uncertainty before the courts in the event that state regulation and the regulation of Catalan civil law are different. From the point of view of the security of citizens, if they had determined the non-basic nature of the articles that we have proposed to them from the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union during this process, they would have given more security to citizens and to all legal operators. In addition, there are two other issues. One was raised by Mrs Diez. My group has not just understood the deletion of that reference to large families. It would be good if Mrs Montesinos could clarify this in the debate. At the outset, we have also called for a separate vote on this forecast. Nor does the bill address the most sensitive issues in our childhood policy, such as the treatment of undocumented foreign minors. The amendments of Convergence i Unió have incorporated in their literality the judgment of the Supreme Court and the recommendations of the Ombudsman, which state that the legal document that a minor foreigner brings, his passport, is a fully valid document in the Spanish State. The Supreme Court has established this in a clear judgement and the Ombudsman has also recommended that the Government adopt this position. In the text finally incorporated in the Senate, we again place on a land of arbitrariness on the part of the Administration the determination of the age of the person in question and the option is maintained for physical evidence, which has a margin of error sufficiently considerable to put at risk the consideration or not of a young person as a minor, with all the consequences that this has in terms of protection and its effective documentation in the Spanish State. We have lost an opportunity in this area. Finally, the bill, which is important and which updates the legislation, which for the first time incorporates in the state sphere the question of minors at risk, in helplessness, which responds to international conventions, which is inspired by legislation such as the Catalan one, a bill which - I insist - I wish we could have voted on, does not address it - could not even address it in its own consideration, but there is a government duty - the main problem we have in the area of children, which is the scourge of child poverty.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u68	Mr. Campuzano, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u69	I'm done, Madam President. The Government has given up in this legislature to turn the fight against child poverty into a State priority. It is a grave mistake that future generations will pay for. It is a shame that the legislature will end without addressing this issue as it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u70	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on the amendments incorporated in the Senate, we are finalizing the bill to amend the system of protection for children and adolescents, the organic part of which has not returned to Congress because it has not been amended in the Upper House. The Socialist Parliamentary Group shares the broad outlines of these projects, whose origin is found in the preliminary drafts drawn up at the socialist stage, as well as in the recommendations of the Senate Study Committee on the issue of national adoption and other related issues, whose report was adopted unanimously on 22 November 2010, and in the recommendations of the Ombudsman and the legal operators, especially the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, which required us to update the legislation to address the challenges to the protection of children; by the indications of the forums for inter-autonomous cooperation, which requested this initiative from the General Administration of the State; by the continued contributions of professional colleges, social workers, social educators, psychologists, in addition to the request of the host and adoption family associations and, above all, by the insistence of NGOs on the rights of children, such as Unicef, Save the Children, the Children's Platform, among others, who have daily found this need. There are some issues on which we would have liked to see further progress. After almost four years, which is the time it has taken for this law to be passed, we could expect those who legislate for greater commitment to children. In particular, to mention some aspects, my group misses the following. First, a bigger bet on the public. Secondly, the strengthening of the network of public social services, which is called upon to carry out intensive work for its development and fulfilment; in particular, the promotion of the role that municipal social services play and should continue to play. Thirdly, the composition of professional teams to be involved in different situations related to child protection should be defined with greater concreteness. Fourth, more and better measures to support foster families. Fifth, greater effort with groups, such as unaccompanied foreign minors and extolled young people. And sixth and last, which is what we are concerned about, is that the two laws incorporate final provisions that state that the measures included in this rule will not be able to entail an increase in public expenditure or in allocations, salaries or other staff costs. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, it is not advisable to adopt a text which makes progress in the protection of children which contains final provisions in these terms, because, if so, we can say that it returns us to the exit box, which is a spurt, is neither serious nor fair. I would remind you that in the report of the Advocates of the General Courts on this issue of non-increased public expenditure advised the deletion of these final provisions, in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State, as they stated that the High Advisory Council expressly states that it is obvious that this preliminary draft does have an economic impact. So this forecast, which, on the other hand, lacks normative content - they continue to insist - must be eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is not possible to make progress in the protection of children without mobilizing the necessary resources. In order for this law not to be left on wet paper, in our view, the following issues are essential, among other things: strengthening social services by providing them with the qualified staff and the necessary material means; improving residential care centres; ensuring that centres for children with behavioural disorders offer all the guarantees that the new regulation imposes; improving the support and care of foster families so that one of the essential objectives can be achieved, namely to prevent the institutionalization of minors; improving adoption procedures, including taking into account that the work of the courts and the prosecutor's office will be increased, so that it should also be strengthened. All this, we insist, requires increased resources. Don't have the slightest doubt. It is not possible to legislate without adequately giving effect to what is intended to be achieved by legislation. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are many amendments to the Senate, which we are seeing here and which we are voting on today. Some are just technical corrections or improvements, others are also the result of transactions with different political groups and, therefore, the result of the negotiation and the agreement, which deserves to be evaluated positively, although it is true that they do not contain substantial progress. Finally, there is a group of amendments incorporated through the adoption of amendments by the Senate People's Group aimed at regulating issues that, because of their enormous importance, should have been dealt with differently. I'll just quote two. First, to declare the non-embargoability of dependency benefits with the exception of the debt of non-payment of child support. We think it's positive. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, whether it is a good thing that at the beginning of this parliamentary term, which is now over, a proposal for a law presented by our group was debated for the same purpose, although a little more comprehensive and comprehensive, which was, by the way, rejected by the votes of the People's Parliamentary Group. We do not know the cause of the change in criteria, but welcome be, although I recommend that you read out the 'Diary of Sessions' and check out the poor arguments you used to tell us no to what you now say yes. The second, which seems to us to be an outstanding issue, is the modification of death and survival benefits when the victim of a crime of murder was the cause. Of course, we share it too. But changes of this caliber, ladies and gentlemen, should not be introduced in this way, at the end of the legislature, by an amendment in the Senate at the last minute. Unfortunately, this is not happening alone with this law, for you have been doing it for a while, taking advantage of any legislative changes. They should have brought these matters to the Lower House through a bill, giving parliamentary groups the opportunity to study them as they deserve, to debate, to amend. In short, as Mr Rajoy would say, to do things as God commands. Out of responsibility, our group has neither hindered nor delayed nor compromised the passage of this law. On the contrary, the People's Parliamentary Group, with its absolute majority, during the current parliamentary term has put on the ground any proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to commit itself to the processing of this law on a preferential basis, as we do know the importance of it. We will support these changes, but, I repeat, we cannot help telling them that it does not seem to us to be the best way to carry them out. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by returning to the worrying question of the provision on non-increased public spending. Let me point out that the measures we incorporate will make it even more necessary to increase resources for children and that it will therefore be the autonomous communities that implement their budget lines for this purpose. In short, welcome be this law. We share the diagnosis, the objectives, the aims and the measures to be addressed, although the forms do not seem to us to be the most appropriate. And, above all, we have to say that the Government and the parliamentary group that supports you and has the absolute majority - you, the People's Group - has been unambitious and not courageous, because if there is a policy that deserves to mobilise resources, Minister, that is child protection policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u72	Thank you, Mr. Sahuquillo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs Montesinos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me first of all to welcome the social entities of the third sector working with children and adolescents, the academics, the directors-general of autonomous communities who are accompanying us this morning and who have been a fundamental part of what culminates today in their parliamentary tour. In the beginning they, together with Minister Alonso, former Minister Mato, the Secretary of State, the Director General and the public offices that accompany us, made it possible for this House to discuss and approve this text. Therefore, my welcome, that of the People's Parliamentary Group, and our great thanks to them. [[Applauds]] In this line, in the same line in which you began the process of this bill, a line based on consensus, dialogue, contributions, we begin our journey in this House. In fact, this has been acknowledged by many of the speakers, not only in this intervention but in previous interventions. As a result of that dialogue, consensus and joint work, one hundred and fifty amendments were adopted in Congress in their own terms, that is, as proposed by the opposition; forty and thirty-four amendments were incorporated in the Senate in their own terms and eleven others were negotiated. It is true, and Mrs Díez said, that there has been a mistake that we did not know at all, nor do I think that the rest of the groups knew until this very morning, because in our will in no case was that suppression, an error that the People's Parliamentary Group guarantees will be remedied. Well, thanks to this reform, the reform that is now completing its process, boys and girls will have much more options, more opportunities for the future. It is a reform that comes in addition to those initiatives that have been launched by the Government and which come to respond to the words that have been made by the CiU Parliamentary Group or by the Socialist Group. It was not true that the Government had looked elsewhere on the issue of child poverty. Quite the contrary: the Government took on from the very beginning a commitment that was not made by the Socialist Government, because unfortunately it was in its period where poverty and inequality increased the most. On the contrary, this Government has turned its back and set out to work precisely for the benefit of children and families. Proof of this is the recognition that the European Union has made of the measures that have been taken, such as the Second National Plan for Children and Adolescents; the Social Inclusion Plan; the Comprehensive Family Support Plan; the Youth Strategy; the budget lines, economic aid and funds that have been earmarked for families at risk and children; the tax reform, which has allowed 106,000 families to benefit and family checks to be created; the labour reform, which has allowed employment to be created, which is the best and most welcome social policy because it dignifies people when they find employment; those €3,000 million that, let us not forget, have been put into circulation so that all those entities - many of which are present here today - could be paid for by the Administration; that Social Fund for eight autonomous communities that needed it; the IRPF grant, etc. There are many, many, measures. They will therefore be able to say things about this Government, but they cannot deny the social commitment that this Government has put into practice since the minute it began to work. Ladies and gentlemen, it has also been said this morning that this reform is based on a law already initiated by the Socialist Party, and it has even been said that the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group have taken four years to implement it. You ruled for seven years, because I remind you that you dissolved the House before the end of the legislature in order not to have to approve general state budgets that should have benefited families and children. Well, they say you introduced that bill, but that's not the case; this bill was only passed in the first round in the Council of Ministers because you introduced it in July 2011. In addition, it did not refer to gender-based violence, large families or the right and best interests of the child. And not only that, but you have absolutely strongly criticized the fact that the text does not contain an express reference to the budgetary part. I would like to remind you that you were literally copied - that is, you were literally copied from your bill - which refers to the budget part. Moreover, I read what you said at the outset about the budgetary impact: So in section 3.2, general economic impact, the changes introduced by this preliminary draft do not bring with it the need for new budget allocations that are already being allocated to child protection at this time. And I don't finish reading because it's all in the same line and time is pressing. Therefore, I am greatly hurt by the Socialist Party's speech. It has surprised us throughout the whole process that has been abstaining in each of the processes, when we understood that having worked, even if it had been at the end and at the last minute, just before the dissolution of the Chambers - which this Government has not done, which it has been doing for four years - however, they have not moved that commitment that they claim to have to the result of the votes. In any case, I will not deny to you what interest you have had, that throughout this process we have incorporated many of your suggestions and that unfortunately at the time you did not consult - as has been done on this occasion - neither experts nor social entities for children nor the Council of State. They did so only and exclusively with the Autonomous Communities. Another substantial difference. Convergència i d ́Unió spokeswoman referred to the fact that from the government and from the parliamentary group that supports it we are making a competitive invasion in the protection of minors and that we do not respect their civil law. We have been discussing this throughout the whole parliamentary process and I think it has become clear that this is not the case, that there is absolute respect for the Autonomous Communities. What I regret is that speech - and I say it to you with all my affection - absolutely night off from the nationalists, because they are putting forward a nationalist discourse in the best interests of the child, and I think this is much bigger. It is a law that I know we are all very proud to have participated in, but it is a law in which we should have anticipated other things before those assumptions that, you say, we have invaded competitively. Of course not, because equality enshrines it - and you know it well - the Spanish Constitution in its article 14. He said that we ignored the civil law of some autonomous communities, and that is not the case. The recognition of the exclusive competence of the autonomous communities in the field of civil law by their statutes does not in any way upset the competence of the State, as provided for in article 149 of the Spanish Constitution. With regard to the reference to the Law on Intercountry Adoption, the decision to authorize adoptions in the different countries of origin, as well as the role of accrediting collaborating entities, is reflected in article 149 of the Constitution, which confers on the State the powers. In addition, there is a ruling of the Constitutional Court that endorses the precepts of this law against the arguments that you have used in the field of foreign affairs. Because of the shortage of time I can't stop reading it to you, but I'll send it to you for your knowledge. In any case, the bill establishes channels for the participation of the autonomous communities, and we have been expressing this to them. In short, I wanted to make it clear that the reform is absolutely respectful of the autonomous communities, that it is neither retrograde nor liquidating nor intends to invade competences that are not its own; quite the contrary. The General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council and the Council of State support the regulation provided for in the reform of these powers. On the other hand, and as time is short, I would like to recall very quickly a series of developments that incorporate the text, such as that Spain is the first country to incorporate the defence of the best interests of the child as an interpretative principle, substantive law and procedural rule, as recommended by the United Nations; that, moreover, for the first time, the risk situation of the child is defined as State-wide, as well as the declaration of defencelessness, etc. It is a text that has been enriched, as I said at the beginning, with parliamentary procedure both in Congress and in the Senate. They will allow me to pay a small but recognized tribute to the compañeras Blanca Puyuelo and Maite Martín, who have accompanied me in this process, because for the three of us it has been a huge pride and satisfaction to have participated; but I also wanted to extend it to two other people of the People's Parliamentary Group. One is Carmen Quintanilla, who at the time worked on two of the amendments that were tabled in the Congress concerning trafficking, which I already extended in the previous speech. And from the Senate procedure I would like to highlight an amendment - although I would like to entertain myself in highlighting both - the one already known as the Castillo amendment. Well, this amendment began to work in Congress and was finally approved in the Senate. All that some say about that amendment being passed in the Senate at the last minute and through the false door because the government does everything in the end, is rigorously false. It seems a lie that at this point you do not even know what is being debated and approved in Congress. It is precisely this amendment that is based on a non-legislative proposal tabled by my colleague Mr Castillo and adopted unanimously in the Committee on Justice, and the amendment is literal. We have improved it in the process and introduced it, but your group voted in favour at that time. So it is not true that we go to the limit of time, but quite the opposite. This Government, in a very paused but certainly with great vehemence, conviction and security, has done what it has done is to respond to the problems that you, during your stage, have created for us. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] I do not want to forget to remember the reason for this amendment: that the children of a fatal victim of gender-based violence can perceive, after the entry into force of this law...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u74	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u75	I'm finishing up, President. ... a pension equivalent to that of absolute orphanhood and which the killer certainly does not receive any. And, look what things!, this is now when it comes into force; before we had seen it this way. Another important amendment is that which introduces family impact into the normative text or that dependency benefits are not cumbersome. Of course I do. This is an amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, which we are all absolutely proud of. Finally, I would like to thank, as I did at the beginning, the participation of the Government, the entities, the academics, all the parliamentary groups, which, despite our differences, have contributed and enriched the text. I would have liked the vote to have been favourable throughout this procedure. There are ways and ways to understand things. Some think that the nationalist principles are above, others that we are in electoral period and others that is the best way to do so. In any case, I thank you all. Today is a great day for children, for girls, for adolescents, for children in general, for those who work with them and for all those who feel proud of the work done. Thank you very much. [[Mr Alonso Aranegui, Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. Do you want to intervene, Minister? He knows that he risks reopening the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u77	I hope I'm not risking anything, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Without re-opening the debate, I am speaking very briefly because I want to acknowledge the work that has been done in this House, also that which comes from the Senate, as well as the willingness of all parliamentary groups, their vocation to dialogue and to seek meeting points. It is seen in the accepted amendments and in the numerous transactions that have taken place, which have improved the project that the Government had referred to the Courts, which I am particularly proud of and I would like to acknowledge to all of you. But this is legislation that places us at the forefront and which, as the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group said, is a milestone and a magnificent news story for Spanish children and adolescents; legislation that has been being developed for a long time and that is the result of a great deal of accumulated knowledge, of much experience, of the work of civil society, of the entities that are here today accompanying us and that work day by day and therefore are protagonists of all this legislative production that we have been able to complete. Of course, not only the Government in which I now participate, but also the previous Government, which has already begun this work and the minister who preceded me, Ana Mato, the autonomous communities and so many people. So, to all of them, thank you very much. We are very pleased that we have been able to complete this legislative work. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u78	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u79	We move on to the point of committee opinions on legislative initiatives. First, the opinion on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October of the Constitutional Court for the establishment of a prior remedy of unconstitutionality for the draft organic law of the Statute of Autonomy or its amendment. In order to defend the amendments made to this initiative, I have the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you that you are manifesting what you already know. The Catalan Republicans defend the right to decide, which is why - they know it perfectly well - we are going to exercise this right in a few weeks' time. If we defend the right to decide of all peoples, of all the nations of the current Spanish State, it will not surprise them that for us the problem is not whether the remedy of unconstitutionality should be prior or post. We deny the existence of this possibility to the extent that we understand that different peoples have the right to decide, to decide everything democratically in their own parliaments. In addition, we have been victims of a partisan Constitutional Court, sold - I repeat, sold - politically to the two major Spanish parties, a corrupt Constitutional Court in its functions, since the functions of a constitutional court, especially the main one, is its own impartiality. We do not need to refer to the recent history of recent years and to everything that happened around the second generation Catalan statutory process. In fact, from the profound political stupidity of the two great Spanish political parties of contempt for the will of the people of Catalonia, expressed democratically in their Parliament - and in the Catalan case, then even in these very Courts - and then, above all, plebiscite in referendum in Catalonia, it becomes much of what we now have in our country. You will soon have the opportunity to verify this, if Catalan citizenship so wishes, since it is clear that any democratic mandate, in order to be so, must be coined in the ballot box. So we do not expect anything from the Constitutional Court in favour of impartiality and democracy itself. We therefore amend, of course, all of these two initiatives, which come from the Socialist Party and the People's Party. As proof of the cotton to what extent you have some will to amend - even if in everything that affects a large part of the citizenry you no longer have a remedy - the next debate will be whether you choose to accept the democratic will, if it is given, of the people of Catalonia or choose to repress us obviously with the Constitutional Court and with everything that is necessary. This is the break they'll have in the next few months. This will be the problem of the Spanish Democrats, you will have to look in the mirror and ask yourself: whether we respect the will of Catalonia or not. As a test of cotton we thought of making some amendments and bringing them here to see if they are really more or less sincere by recognizing the trophies that have been made. For example, Amendment No. 13 can be approved for the purpose and effect of making it clear that judges who have been registered with a trade union or a political party cannot exercise their functions in the Constitutional Court, in view of the fact of the great scandal which has occurred - and which is still taking place - when magistrates were ugnant that they were even deputies of the People's Party or the same case as the President of the Constitutional Court, who is affiliated with the People's Party. Today they have the opportunity to send a message to citizens for the purpose of amendment. We have experienced other very embarrassing issues. It is unacceptable that in calculating the quorum of judges account should be taken of those who should already have been renewed. Also those pages so black that we lived during the Catalan statutory process when the judges elected by the Senate were not renewed because they did not agree with the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Why do they not now claim that the judges of the Constitutional Court who have to be elected by the Senate will be elected by the autonomous communities in accordance with 151, for example? It would be a decoy on purpose of amendment. There have been performances by both active and passive, dead magistrates whose vacancies were not covered. It is also unacceptable that an autonomous Government should only be entitled to appeal if it affects the scope of its autonomy. But had we not remained in that all territorial institutions were state? Well, this is playing with advantage. The history of the Spanish governments is always to play with advantage and this advantage has an instrument, which is the Constitutional Court. Not to mention Article 84, which affects the settlement of the positive competition dispute. It turns out that an autonomous law is paralysed by the appeal lodged by the central government but instead this does not work. It happens on many occasions. For example, in the case of the Catalan Government, a law taxing financial institutions, which would have amounted to almost 200 million euros for income that could go directly to social policies, is paralysed because this is what the TC wants, but it is what the government wants. This is playing with advantage. [[The Lord]] A functional, diligent and modern administration should ensure sufficient financial resources for the Constitutional Court to be - I repeat - very profitable in its work and be able to marry contradictions. But that the central government has all the aces and the autonomous communities are at the expense of the will of the governments that use this institution to curb the legislation of the autonomous communities is unacceptable. I would remind you that we have asked for a separate vote on Amendment No 13, which is perhaps the most striking and which, in some way, could show a certain will against this corruption - because corruption is the fact that a judge placed his sacred duties on behalf of his card - and so we put this amendment to the vote and have the opportunity to vote on it. Still, I'm telling you, we're not going to be afraid of your Constitutional Court because it's part and sold. The right of peoples to decide is far more powerful than their wits to prevent people from deciding their future. So I refer to the democratic will that the Catalans will express in a few weeks' time. You ask yourself, as democrats, what you plan to do and how you want to act, whether as democrats or something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. What do the proposing groups expect from their initiatives? What beneficial political effects do you think can happen to push the previous recourse of unconstitutionality back into the final leg of this legislature? Of course, this initiative is very much in conflict with what was taught in the transition times in the law faculties; and it is very much in conflict with how, from some political movements, we interpreted the Constitution, but even the Constitutional Court itself. When it comes to defining the statutes of autonomy, that we all know that they are an organic law, if you take the manuals of the 1980s you will read that they are qualified, special organic laws, because, among other things, the Constitutional Court - and so the doctrine gathered - affirmed that the Spanish Constitution was an incomplete Constitution, especially incomplete in its Title VIII, which needed further development, a concrete interpretation of what it said. This development is achieved through, as it cannot otherwise be, a political pact, as is the Constitution, but a political pact focused on each of the autonomous communities. This political pact complements the Constitution and interprets it and from there arises the concept of the block of constitutionality and from there arises the concept that the parameter for measuring constitutionality is not only the Constitution, but also the statutes of autonomy. Yes, I know, Mr Serrano - I see you're taking notes - that the other day on the Commission made a kelsenian presentation of a Constitution. Well, yes, we have the Constitution as a parameter, as a summit in the pyramid of the legal order, and the rest of the rules have to be ordered. Okay, but what if we find an incomplete constitution, as is the case with the Spanish one? If someone reads Title VIII of the Constitution, they have no idea what autonomy is like in Spain, nor do they even know how many of them are, nor how they have been formed, nor what competence each has, nor how 148 and 149, which appear in a number of competences in the statutes of autonomy themselves, must be interpreted. We all believed, we thought, we wanted to interpret that the constitutional bases are not only in the Constitution but in the statutes of autonomy. Therefore, what you are going to address is not just a technical question, but you are entering the foundations of the system, exactly in the basics, in the fundamentals of the system and this concerns fundamental policy; it is not four touches and four nonsenses, but it is entering into the foundational question, which of course adds difficulties to possible future agreements. The Constitution does not speak of a previous remedy anywhere, anywhere; they will tell me whether something is said in 161 or 162. Nothing is said at all. Moreover, this is the case when this possibility is arbitrated through the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, until 1985 - when this possibility of an appeal for the abolition of the law, for the repeal of the law - there are no appeals against the statutes of autonomy. The crux of the matter, the reason why it withdraws is because of the attack on budgets by the opposition, but everyone understands that there is a political pact, that agreements are being reached, that the statutes of autonomy are coming into force and that it cannot be called into question and left in the hands of twelve people what has been decided by the political representatives and endorsed by the citizenry. Moreover, I will remind you of what the preamble of the Law on the Repeal of the previous remedy of unconstitutionality promoted by the Government of Felipe González says: 'Actually, Title IX of the Constitution orders, through the Constitutional Court, a system of legislative control 'a posteriori' and of a non-suspensive nature, other than any previous control, whose acceptance, by exceeding the constitutional guarantees, has no other basis than the Organic Law itself which regulates it'. And he goes on to say: 'But the configuration of the previous remedy of unconstitutionality can mean a serious fissure in this balanced system of relations with negative impact by the Legislature and the Constitutional Court'. And he continues: 'It can thus, and in a negative way, affect the exercise of the legislative power that article 66.2 of the Constitution confers without limitation on the General Courts. The Constitutional Court, for its part, a judicial body, and therefore, far from the political avatars of parliamentary practice - what time, 1985!-, is launched to a function that does not respond to the system of relation of powers that the Constitution establishes.' This is stated in the preamble to the 1985 Act. You are now talking about trying to avoid frustration because it seems that the great detonator has been the Statute of Catalonia. Here frustration, who provokes it? Is it provoked by the Catalans and the Catalan Parliament by adopting a statute which is then approved by the General Courts and which is then endorsed by the people? Or do it provoke fifty Members, sixty or those who were, of the People's Party, who resort to this status and who, in the face of another status such as that of Andalusia, which contains many of the Catalan clauses, do not submit any appeals? Who is the one who frustrates political agreements here? Who is it that causes legal uncertainty? Who is it that causes frustration? You yourself provoke that so-called sham and now come to put in the patch of previous recourse of unconstitutionality. Look, they just don't appeal; they don't appeal, because what they're doing is hindering the political agreement. And all so that in the end it will be in the hands of twelve people, twelve people who have been appointed, how, everywhere? No, for those so far - I don't know what will happen in the future - two large political parties of the House; you name them and you decide; and you press, of course, yes; you influence, and so does the media. Who's going to be able to put that resource on top of it? You are nothing more, the great parliamentary formations of the House. Do you think this is unbalanced? Do you really believe that this will give greater legal certainty and stability to the political system? They are digging another ditch more in the face of a time that supposedly opens - the Socialist Party itself is claiming that it wants to seek an agreement within a constitutional reform - they are digging one more ditch, putting a more difficulty to that possible agreement. They continue to fall into the concept of subordination, which is also based on other articles of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court itself since its inception. Because if we go to section 161, we will find that if an appeal is brought against the laws, does the Constitution establish the suspension of the laws of autonomous communities? No, no, It says in point 2, when it no longer talks about laws, but about provisions and resolutions, that the Government will be able to challenge and then the challenge will produce the suspension. What do you do in the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court? To extend this measure also to the laws, which does not appear - and if it does not appear to be for something - in the Constitution, and they do so in an unbalanced manner, because while the Government can do so, the autonomous communities are defenceless and cannot do the same to each other with the laws of the Courts. The same thing you want to apply to the statutes of autonomy, you want to do the same, a concept of subordination. Frankly, I do not know what they are trying to do with this, what they are trying to do by changing the foundations of the system, what they are trying to do by hindering political agreements; I do not know what they are trying to do by preventing paragraphs that are not very definite but which are deliberately interpreted by the Constitution from being interpreted, agreed politically and then questioned by no one, by fifty parliamentarians or by twelve judges of the Constitutional Court, and things can go right. Why do they put the judiciary or the force of a minority majority above plural agreements? I cannot understand it, either on the part of one or the other, and less at the time when we are, and even less on the part of those who speak of constitutional reforms and plural agreements. We will, of course, vote in favour of the amendments from the rest of the groups and oppose this change that is intended to be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Its position is clear. Mr Nuet has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. We will defend our group's amendments by trying again in the House to get into the background of the debate before us. For us it is very simple, it has to do with the different interpretation of the Spanish Constitution, the plurinationality of Spain and its character or not federal. Therefore, this initiative of the People's Party and the Socialist Party draws a certain vision and a certain constitutional interpretation. It is clear to us that the statutes of autonomy are part of the constitutional bloc not only because we interpret it but also because we believe that even for the parents of the Constitution that was their point of view. Whether or not to do that interpretation decants the coin to the face or to the cross. The cross obviously means understanding, as we were told in the Commission, that the Constitution is above the statutes of autonomy, which we would agree with, but one thing is that the Constitution is above the statutes of autonomy and another very different is that it crushes them, which is the interpretation made by the People's Party. We are not surprised that the PP does this interpretation because it is his model of state, his model of Spain, but we are surprised that in this interpretation the Socialist Party participates, which will use in its pre-campaign and electoral campaign the flag of constitutional reform. Positive proposal, but I ask: Are we not already marking the letters of the debate on constitutional reform saying here that there is going to be a double previous and subsequent recourse, a double constitutional filter to the statutes of autonomy? Are we not marking that possible constitutional reform saying that it is not going to be federal, that it is not going to be federalizing and that it is obviously not going to understand Spain as a plurinational entity? Yes, because in this case, affirming that there is going to be that double recourse of unconstitutionality, we are saying that the statutes of autonomy will have a double filter, that the legislative capacity of the autonomous parliaments, but also that the legislative capacity of Congress and the Senate, will be controlled by a Constitutional Court and by a constitutional and parliamentary system based on bipartisanism and the centralist vision of Spain. So, we're saying everything. We are promising that perhaps with constitutional reform the door to dialogue can be opened for cases such as Catalonia and the Basque country, but, at the same time, in practice we are voting and we are working to leave the opposite sitting, tied and well tied: that here nothing is going to move that the People's Party does not allow and that the Socialist Party is going to wheel, with forgiveness, of that political intention. We are therefore making a mistake of the future; we are making a mistake of the future at a time of political conjuncture in our country, of Catalan elections on 27 September, whether or not they want the Chambers, and this House is going to start a constituent process for our country, Catalonia. We want and want dialogue on this side of the Ebro because we do defend that without dialogue, without negotiation and without understanding it is not possible. Obviously, we are not on any unilateral path that leads nowhere and only dialogue and understanding allow us to be a free people. But you are replying to a debate that is coming, you are replying to us today with this parliamentary initiative and you are already telling us what is going to happen, what you are going to think and what you are going to say, although perhaps in an election campaign that will leave it open, but, I repeat, with this vote and with these facts we interpret that you have already decided and closed it to the right and left of this House. Therefore, it is very simple. The open spirit of the Constitution must be respected; otherwise, Spain has no future as we understand it today and as it exists today. For those of us who believe in the future of Spain - and I say this to you from Catalonia, if I may - or Spain understands that it has to move or everything is going to move, but not in the direction of continuing to have a collective project. Obviously, we want, yes, a federalizing and plurinational interpretation of the constitutional text and of our common coexistence project, because it is or will not be. Therefore, let us dialogue on that basis and vote and approve things that can go in that direction, but not closing doors to what is to come. Finally, I would like to say that the statutes of autonomy are state. Therefore, if they are a State, they deserve respect and also that the State understands that, being a State, they cannot have mechanisms of these characteristics by which they must prove their innocence. Yes, you are going to vote that autonomy statutes must prove their innocence. The People's Party believes that they are guilty and therefore must prove their innocence. No, they're innocent because we're state. Either we conceive them like this or the future is going to be very black. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, first of all, Mrs Surroca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this debate today because the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group have reached an agreement to regain the previous unconstitutionality of the proposals for autonomous statutes and their reforms. It is an agreement which, from our point of view, implies recognition. They recognize the People's Party and the Socialist Party that the current model does not work and that things have been done wrong. That's right. They do not say so explicitly, but it is clear that they would not promote the recovery of the previous resource if things worked out well. Therefore, you are acknowledging that the current model is not valid, but, if I may, I will tell you again that you are wrong. They are wrong because they reinforce the clash of legitimacy between the Legislature and the Constitutional Court. They turn the Constitutional Court into a third Chamber; it has been said repeatedly and insistently in this debate. They judge a strictly political debate and I insist that this is all a serious mistake, because it does not resolve the substantive issue. We are facing a political problem. On the other hand, we must also remember - some spokesman has already said this before me in the use of the floor - that the Constitutional Court has been and is very questioned. It is an over-politicized court with challenged judges and no substitutes. Mr Tardà has clearly and in detail broken it down when he spoke before me. Today the People's Party and the Socialist Party are once again pushing this mechanism of previous recourse. Both when they have been in the opposition, as some other spokesman has also said, they have used the Constitutional Court at their will to block or dilate certain laws; we just have to remember the Organic Law on Education or the reform of abortion. In essence, they have both played politically with the Constitutional Court. Now we have the feeling - I would say even the certainty - that they do exactly the same thing again, recovering the previous resource. Therefore, the debate should not focus solely on whether or not we have to recover the previous appeal, but there is another substantive issue, which is the debate on the role of the Constitutional Court. It needs to be turned into a genuine independent court, and to do so we should resolve many issues - some other spokesman has also pointed out - such as the model of election of judges, their replacement and a long one. We believe that the interpretation of the political forces of the constitutional framework should be ensured and that citizens have voted in a referendum; I am referring in particular to those statutes of autonomy through 151. The way would therefore be to amend the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, in order to exclude both the previous and subsequent appeals of unconstitutionality from draft statutes and their reforms, especially those approved through 151. But you, with this agreement, do absolutely the opposite: you keep the double filter, the double veto, the previous and the later. They know that the declaration of unconstitutionality about a law is never an innocuous matter but has consequences, and in the case of the statutes that go through 151 the consequences can be particularly traumatic. I insist that the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia is the clear example of this frustration that may result from the interference of the Constitutional Court. With the recovery of the previous remedy we are losing power to the Legislative and allowing the judges of the Constitutional Court to make relevant decisions politically, when that is not their role. We insist that this is not the way. Moreover, do not be mistaken, the problem is not one statute or another, the problem is that you, gentlemen of the PP and, for the Socialist Party's part, did not want to recognize and face the reality of Catalonia. In Catalonia there is a problem that is getting bigger every day and that we are not going to solve by recovering the previous remedy or by maintaining the remedy of unconstitutionality. The problem is not to stand up to an ambitious status that calls for greater self-government, the problem is that you have not been able to hear what a great majority of Catalan society is and was asking you at that time. They gave a door to the statute, they gave a door to the tax pact, they also gave a door to the legal and agreed consultation. But in spite of everything, since Unito we continue to bet and we will bet on dialogue. Politics is dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u87	Mrs. Surroca, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u88	Yes, Mr. President. I'm finishing up. We will not tire of insisting on it. That is the way, that of dialogue and that of politics in capitals. With this proposal, in which the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group have agreed, we are not going to solve the fundamental problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Xuclà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by making a historical consideration and then I will end by referring to the specific bill that we are going to vote on. Constitutional courts were born in Europe between World War I and World War II. Just after the First World War, in the twenties and thirties, it was theorized that, beyond the power of the Legislature and beyond the sovereign power of the popular election, there should be a court that tempered, presenting certain prejudices or reservations to the activity of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, in historical terms, it is good to know the starting point of the constitutional courts, this counterweight of constitutional justice that evaluates that approved by parliaments, and that is why there are no constitutional courts in different democratic societies. I know that this law is not about the abolition or not of the Constitutional Court, but it is good to remember the origin of the constitutional courts in the 1920s and 1930s. Secondly, I believe that Mr Esteban, reading the explanatory statement of the 1985 Act by the Government of the Socialist Party which annulled the previous constitutional appeal, has given us more than enough evidence to highlight the Socialist Group's incoherence at least at this time at the end of the political pact legislature between the PP and the PSOE to respond to the territorial debate on the basis of the previous constitutional appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time when political opportunity is very relevant and you, with this agreement between the majority party and the first opposition party, are sending a very clear message to society and to the system of self-government and to the proposals for amending the Constitution that the opposition group is proposing. The political opportunity is minimal, not to say that it does not exist at the moment, because you have to understand perfectly that we can have a political debate of normative hierarchy, but also in Catalonia and Spain as a whole a debate of political opportunity is taking place. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the best contribution to resolving the debates. You remember very well that since 1978 a law endorsed by the citizenry had never had a subsequent appeal, as was the case through the appeal against the statute in 2006, with a judgment of 9 July 2010. You will tell me that according to the principle of regulatory hierarchy - Kelsen - the last word is the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, there is at least one consideration of the tension of legitimacy between that voted for by the citizenry after the approval by the Courts and the decision by referendum and the subsequent decision of a Constitutional Court which, moreover - and this is in line with some amendments that we are going to support - had judges with clearly expired mandates. We have just passed a reform of the Law of the General Council of the Judiciary so that its members at the age of five will cease and their mandate will not be extended in any way as in the past. On the other hand, in the 2010 judgement, the case of out-of-date judges was particularly extraordinary. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Esteban, who has returned to the Chamber, I am very grateful to you for reading the explanatory statement for 1985 because it highlights an extraordinary inconsistency between the Socialist Party's approach at the time and a reform at the end of the parliamentary term which does not help to understand what has happened. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you must understand the political responses, because in the end, politics has to find answers, and the responses of political unity that are being formulated in Catalonia are a response to the extraordinary deafness of this reform of the Constitutional Court Act. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. We are now entering the position-fixing shift. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u92	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are having this morning is a very interesting debate in political terms from the perspective of our parliamentary group. It is true that it has been approached from different perspectives and that a great deal of emphasis has been placed on legal issues. It is true that it is a debate with a high legal content, because many of your ladies and gentlemen have spoken of the interpretations of the laws, of how the courts interpret things or not - you yourselves have made interpretations - but I believe that this is not a question - let me say - of legal interpretation but of interpretation of political debate, but political with capitals. In this regard, I would like to answer a few questions in order to raise the debate in political terms. It has been said, for example - and in this I completely agree - that there are times when we must perceive, notice, make public the purpose of the amendment, and I think this is a time when we are all going to make public our purpose of the amendment. Indeed, we are going to amend, we are going to amend a decision that the Courts made thirty years ago. At that time the decision was made to repeal the remedies of unconstitutionality over organic laws, which were many more - I would like to recall that it was over all organic laws -, among which were the statutes of autonomy. Well, in view of what has happened since then, this plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, these General Courts, amend themselves, and do so as these things are done in politics and democracy, because the results of the laws are appreciated, and that is that the laws are amended in the light of their results. In 1985 the legislator wanted to solve a problem. There were many previous resources of unconstitutionality of all or virtually all organic laws, which was bad for the construction of democracy at that time. But the consequence is to repeal all the remedies of unconstitutionality, because it has also been negative, and that is why there is the purpose of the amendment and there is an amendment, and we amend and introduce the previous remedy of unconstitutionality, if the majority so wishes, for the statutes of autonomy. By the way, I have heard here that the statutes of autonomy are a state and a constitutional bloc. No, the autonomous communities are state and the autonomous statutes are part of the constitutional bloc, but they are not the constitutional bloc. That would mean that you are at the same level as the Constitution, and you are not at the same level, no, you are not at the same level, even if you consider Spain to be a plurinational or federal state, federalizing you have said. No, not federal. Someone has also said that there are no constitutional courts in many democracies in the world. Well, they're not called constitutionals, but they fulfill that function, and we're going to set the example of the U.S. Supreme Court. If all federal state legislators and federal legislation had the same rank as the federation, that is, the United States, each federal state would legislate and there would be no one above that could correct them. Well, one of the last sentences on gay marriage has just been corrected. The Supreme Court has handed down a sentence and it is over; all federal states that had legislated on it by banning gay marriages have had to enchant themselves, because the Supreme Court has said it is constitutional and, as it is constitutional, applies in all the United States of America. [[The lady]] Well, let us apply this very thing to Spain, which is also a democracy, with a high degree of political decentralization and with a Constitutional Court, which simply proclaims that the laws are constitutional. It has been said here by several speakers that now that we are all in the spirit of agreement, in the spirit of the reform of the Constitution, with the necessity of meeting, of course, there must be agreements, to the maximum, but, ladies and gentlemen, within the law. The Constitution can be changed - of course it can - are not the sacred tables of the law; now, we change it here. It is proposed here and voted on by all Spaniards. The Constitution is not changed with statutes of autonomy that are voted on in a part of Spain. No, no, that's not how the Constitution is changed; they can already have the spirit they want, but that's not how the Constitution is changed. There can be no statutes that change the Constitution, which have the letter of statute and body of Constitution. It can't be. What do we need to find agreements and expand them so that we all live together in Spain and all feel comfortable? Yes, but there can only be democratic comfort within the laws, because the rest is not democratic comfort, it's something else. That's exactly what we're talking about. Also the purpose of the amendment, I continue with the same thing. Someone said: you now amend yourselves because what you did... Yeah, it's an amendment, I said it at first, but shouldn't we do this? Someone said: they want to change, they wouldn't have to do this. Ladies and gentlemen, we would not have to do this if there had been constitutional loyalty in Spain. If there had been constitutional loyalty we would not have to be doing this, because there would have been no one who would have wanted to change the Constitution from an autonomous community and from a Statute of Self-Government. If there had been constitutional loyalty, which is the same as serious and consistent democracies, there are things that should not be done. Perhaps the legislator in 1985 thought that there would be constitutional loyalty and that no one would use the statutes for what was not foreseen, but as they have actually been used for what was not foreseen, we need to amend and correct ourselves. For what? So that democracy works well and that everything that is done is done within democracy, that is, within the Constitution. Mr Esteban said - and I think the representative too does not know whether of Convergence or of Union - that the preamble to the 1985 law which repealed the previous remedy of unconstitutionality had to be read. It is true, it is very well read, but we must read the preamble and, since we begin to read and do a little hemerotheque, we read the preamble and the debate, because Convergence i Unió and the Basque Nationalist Party voted against the repeal, they wanted to maintain the previous remedies of unconstitutionality. I encourage you to read the 'Diary of Sessions'. They too have corrected themselves. If it is the same, correct yourself, make purpose of the amendment. Well, okay, and get fixed. But as you yourself have read it here and raised it as an important issue, I remind you that at that time you wanted to maintain the previous resources of unconstitutionality and also said that it was very good to keep them, that you were in the spirit of the Constitution and that it also gave you - in the spirit of the Constitution that you said in that debate - the capacity of minority forces. That happened 30 years ago. Finally, there is an issue that has also been raised at various times during the debate, namely frustration; it has been said from different perspectives. Someone even wondered who was frustrated. Those who promised what they could not give, knowingly, frustrated the citizens, and frustrated the citizens who promised a statute in Catalonia that was known to be unconstitutional, and took it, because that is what is in the law, to a referendum of the citizens knowing that it was unconstitutional and that it changed the Constitution through the back door. That is what is frustrating and not that the law, the Constitution, is invoked and imposed. This is the case with Greece, ladies and gentlemen, which is so recent. We agree on that. Who frustrates the Greeks? Who raises a referendum asking questions about issues that affect not only the Greeks but all Europeans. Yesterday we agreed - mostly, not unanimously - that what frustrated the Greeks was that Syriza, Tsipras, raised a referendum on a question that the Greeks could not answer only, because it was a question that affected us all Europeans. That, from my point of view, is what causes frustration to citizens, when you promise something that you know you can't give because it's not in the hands of the one who promises it, it's not a matter of whether you like it more or less, but it's not in the hands of the one who promises it to you. That's the frustrating, the truly frustrating, and what we have to tackle. If this previous remedy of unconstitutionality had been alive or if there had been constitutional loyalty, some frustrations, some problems of division, which affect us all, apart from the part in which one finds oneself from an ideological point of view - because what generates frustration to citizenship, rupture and separation is bad for democracy, whatever position you are in - we could have saved ourselves. Since constitutional loyalty cannot be forced, regulated or legislated, let us legislate, we recover this previous remedy of unconstitutionality for the important, to make laws, to make all of them constitutional and to avoid greater evils for all citizens. I end with a reference to paragraph 13 of the Republican Left, in the sense that our parliamentary group, as it did in the Commission, will vote in favour of it, because we think it is good that the members of the Constitutional Court do not have a party or trade union card. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Díez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u94	Thank you, Madam President. After this torrent, I hope to be able to respond in ten minutes to the questions that have been raised. I have difficulty, among other things, because I do not like to repeat myself, and this is the third time that I have to speak on this matter within 15 days and also with the same interlocutors, which also facilitates some things. First question: why this initiative? I am obviously speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group, although it is true that we agree with the Group of the European People's Party. I said this openly on the first day that we had a full debate on it, and I recognized it, in our view, the process that was followed from the beginning to the end around the Statute of Catalonia was a path of misappropriation, a long path in which misappropriations of all kinds were added, and which ended, as has been recalled by more than one of the interveners, with the recourse of a legal norm of the State after a part of the citizenship had been pronounced on it. This initiative, as you know, was proposed at the end of 2013. I say this because we have to keep this date in mind in order to avoid the risk of making judgments of intent - in my opinion - absolutely exaggerated, to say the least, in relation to the fact that its purpose is to put an end to what, because, among other things, that I know, there is no prospect in any part of the country - and of course there is no prospect in Catalonia - a reform of the Statute of Catalonia. There are other things, there are very serious problems, very serious answers, other less serious - depends on how they are judged - but what is not a reform of the Statute of Autonomy in perspective. Therefore, Catalonia is not the objective, it is to avoid the reproduction of miscarriages, because when they end up producing and have a certain gravity, the risk is that they end up in what Azaña called an organic deformity, and at least to this my group does not want to contribute. There is a second set of reflections I wanted to make. Mr. Esteban, you're right. I share this with you: the statutes of autonomy are part of the block of constitutionality and therefore serve to complete, clarify, even interpret, what the Constitution says - what the Constitution says - in the sense that the Constitution is first and then the statutes, and that temporal cadence imposes respect for two elementary principles that you and I - I have learned many more years ago than you - when we studied: the principle of legality and the principle of normative hierarchy. By the way, you also know as well as I do that in the block of constitutionality the doctrine commonly understands that there are not only the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy, but also the organic laws that, among other things, fulfil with respect to Title I of the Constitution the same function as the statutes do in the whole of the Constitution and, specifically, in Title VIII. These precisions make sense. For example, also in relation to something that Mr Xuclà has formulated - although he is not currently in the Chamber - about the history of the constitutional courts between the 1920s and 1930s. You have forgotten to add something important that you know, Mr Esteban, that is that between the twenties and thirties there is a very important fundamental change in the world of law, since it is then when the Constitution ceases to be something ethereal to become a legal norm with capital letters; hence the theorization of the Constitutional Court in some European states. But it is because the constitution becomes a legal norm, which until then did not work. We still have some rules that do not meet that standard, but the Constitution as such does. The debate, however, has had a drift that is important, because it leaves it dead. Let us assume that we are convinced by the Socialist Group and the People's Group and vote against this initiative; let us play along with it. The constitutionality of the statutes would therefore not disappear. No, no, it would continue to exist; it would continue to exist in the terms in which it is established today. That is, fifty Members or fifty Senators could appeal. What we want with this initiative is to try to harm as little as possible - and if nothing is possible - the principle of legal certainty on which citizens of a territory, of a part of a community who are endowed, by means of a vote, with a key legal norm for their coexistence: the statute. But, I insist, if this were dropped, constitutionality control would be maintained and we believe that it is preferable to do it ex ante rather than ex post. I told him the other day - and I repeat it - that to the Socialist Group and also to the People's Group, so I have spoken to them - I am not putting anything in front of him - we would still like to be able to reflect on some possibility that would avoid double recourse, at least the one attributed to the same subject. But we haven't had a chance to do it. I'd like to put forward a couple of things to finish. Mr Esteban - I am addressing you because it has been the one who most incisively raised it - I do not have to remind you that in the kingdom of freedom, that is, where freedom is juridious, which is in the sacred principle of the autonomy of the will, two thousand years of law that have extended its influence throughout the corners of the world consecrate that covenants - if you want to say otherwise, contracts - can be declared null and void when they violate the law. The covenants; all of them. And they can declare it by the appearance of a third party, public or private, or they can be declared null and void even because one of the parties claims it. This is the old theory of addicted consent, the illicit object or the non-existent or illicit cause as well. Well, this works. Finally, Mr Tardà, I imagine that you have had - you know, moreover, that I like to talk to you - some role in one of the most unique phenomena of this past week. I really like cinema, apart from literature or the history of literature, as we talked about an hour ago. We had a macguffin, which was invented Hitchcock, fantastic. I have practically not seen a reflection in a medium of communication on whether or not to opt for a previous remedy or a subsequent one. Now, what has generated pages is whether the PP and PSOE had added votes to prevent a completely reasonable amendment that, as you said, was cotton proof. No, the Socialist Group, when it learned about the phenomenon you want to tackle, jumped immediately, was the group that jumped and suggested that it was not possible for a Constitutional Court judge to maintain militancy in a party, to say it in terms harder than membership. We couldn't discuss some terms, nor am I going to face other stories. This is what has attracted attention, even without being the subject of the debate because this proposal had only one objective. I assure you that the Socialist Group has proposals to make regarding the amendment of the Law of the Constitutional Court - of course it has - but it has not brought them here because this had a single objective, among other things because it is true that we did this in mid-legislature, not in the final agonistic period, but it is being discussed when it is being discussed. As our sole objective was to bring forward the content we have agreed, we told him in the Commission a week ago that we were voting against. We will try to find spaces, Mr Tardà, to agree, in view of the handling of this proposal in the Senate, an amendment in relation to elements that, like the woman of Caesar, not only ensure but transmit the image of impartiality, which is and must be seen. This is not just a historic claim, but it is demanded by modern systems and, in particular, by the European system, that we must be impartial and also look at it, and we are prepared to discuss it in the coming days. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u95	Thank you, Mr Serrano. For the People's Group, Mrs Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. The People's Parliamentary Group, on whose behalf I take the floor for the third time on this issue, presented this initiative because it understands that a prior remedy of unconstitutionality provides greater legal certainty, effectiveness and simplicity, since no declaration of nullity is sought, but rather seeks to detect any act of the legislator that is unconstitutional, so that the Courts can modify and remedy it before it enters into force. As is done before it comes into force, this avoids irresolvable problems caused by a rule declared subsequently unconstitutional and thus does not create a gap in the normative fabric since it does not become part of that legal system. The advantage? That as it is done before it comes into force, that is not an inconvenience; on the contrary, it brings greater security and simplicity to the order, as it said a moment ago. With regard to the amendments that the spokesmen have defended here today - which they have already done so in the Commission and which are the same as the whole of them, with which the arguments could already be known - it gives me the feeling that we could divide them or separate them into two blocks of arguments. The first of these refers to the fact that they seek to deny the legitimacy of the Constitutional Court to control the constitutionality of autonomous statutes. The spokesman for the Socialist Group referred to those principles which govern our system and which I also studied, such as the principle of legality and the principle of normative hierarchy. Therefore, all the rules are subject to the Constitution and the Constitutional Court is responsible for ensuring this constitutionality. It is true that they are part of the block of constitutionality - I also said this in the debate we had in plenary, I said it in the Commission and I knew that I would have to repeat it again, but I have no problem and I will repeat it as many times as I need - as long as they are constitutional, but not before or otherwise. It is true, it has been said from this rostrum, that the Constitution does not speak of the previous recourse of unconstitutionality neither to permit it nor to prohibit it, and it is true that the Constitution is not a closed norm, logically, so that under its framework it can govern any political formation. Therefore, there are rules of development that include precepts and provisions that the Constitution does not incorporate, such as the prior recourse to unconstitutionality. So he doesn't pick it up but he doesn't ban it either. I can understand that they do not like that or that they do not like article 161 of the Constitution, that their desire is to change it and that things are otherwise, but our system, the system that the 1978 Constitution set up and that has given us the greatest period of democracy in our history is so, so it is that system and the truth is that denying evidence makes no sense. They do not like the Constitutional Court and understand that a political problem should not be solved by it, but I understand that for some of the spokespersons what is happening in Catalonia is a political problem; I understand it and I can even share it. There is a problem - and some of the speakers have also pointed out - that may be going in another direction in a few months' time, because there are political forces that are promoting the separation of an autonomous community from the rest of Spain. If I understand that this is a political problem and that it goes in the direction of that separation! And I understand that for one of the nationalist forces that is also a problem, because the first result of this problem has occurred in a separation, not precisely from the autonomous community, but from some political formation. I understand that this is a problem for you, but the Constitutional Court is not an ordinary court, it does not belong to the ordinary court order, it is a court that has a jurisdictional facet because it uses jurisdictional procedures, but it is also a political court because, in essence, the Constitution is its parameter for prosecuting the other rules and, in the end, the Constitution is a political pact between the different formations. It is curious how many times some spokespersons refer to the letter of the law to say that the previous remedy is not in the Constitution; and we look at the letter of the law for what we are interested in, because if in the 1980s the constitutional law manuals said one thing, today those manuals say another. I also studied law and before I came to this House I have been teaching constitutional law in the Law Schools for almost twenty years, and believe me that the constitutional law manuals I started reading have nothing to do with those of today; there has been an evolution. If you like the letter of the law because the Constitution does not include the previous remedy, what would we say about the letter of the law, as to the division of powers that the Constitution says or that it defended in the 1980s? We have evolved, but it cannot be that we evolve for what interests us and not for what does not interest us. The second block of arguments to which the speakers have referred is to insist on distinguishing or distinguishing, once again, the autonomy statutes of the Autonomous Communities of 151 and 143. At the previous plenary session I tried to explain that there was no such difference; what happens is that as you insist and insist on that statement, I will also try to explain to you the different reasons why I believe that is not so. Those precepts, 151 and 143, implied a diversity of access to autonomy - I said so too -, which led to different processes for drawing up autonomous statutes and different rhythms for assuming competencies. That's all. Precepts 151 and 143 are transitional law, ladies and gentlemen, because the difference was at the beginning. Today all statutes are equal, all are subject to the Constitution and all are subject to constitutional review by the Constitutional Court. They surely share the widespread misunderstanding that the Constitution constituted two types of autonomous communities when in reality what the Constitution establishes are two distinct rhythms that culminate in a single type of community. That great mistake, ladies and gentlemen, leads you to make such surprising amendments as, for example, to claim that the judges of the Constitutional Court proposed by the Senate be elected from among the candidates nominated by the Autonomous Communities of 151. All right, there are four autonomous communities, and the rest, 143, nothing, we have nothing to say. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, they want or pretend to be different, but they also claim to be better than the others, because the candidates proposed by my autonomous community, the Autonomous Community of Aragon, do not have to be worse candidates than those proposed by an autonomous community of 151. It is neither fair nor supportive for all autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] Reference is also made to the election of candidates. I do not know what some political formations will do when the autonomous communities or those institutions that have the power to appoint or decide certain positions designate their candidates, but I can assure you that in the People's Parliamentary Group, when we have to appoint a candidate we look at their solvency and their professional career and we fully trust that, once elected, they will develop their work with absolute and complete independence, because we do not choose them to follow our instructions, we choose them because we trust, as I say, in that solvency that gives them their professional career and their career. As for pressure on the candidates, in this formation, ladies and gentlemen, never. I do not know what they will do or plan to do others, but of course, from the People's Parliamentary Group and from the People's Party, no pressure. Look at what contradiction or paradox also exists when we find an amendment which seeks to legitimize any autonomous government to bring an action for unconstitutionality even if it comes out of its scope of autonomy, so that senators and deputies who look after the general interest cannot bring or appeal an appeal for autonomy, but rather autonomy can appeal to a state law or a rule of another autonomous community because it is the general interest. So, what are the autonomy statutes? Particular interests so we can't turn to them? Ladies and gentlemen, as I say, a little congruence. Maintaining that distinction is a constant commitment of the nationalist forces because it certainly focuses on their true reason for existence, at least from a political point of view. It is a difference that has been committed to maintaining since the beginning of our democracy. They began with the so-called differential facts that do not appear in the Constitution and that neither were placed on the table from the first phase of the autonomic process, but there for the nineties, when at best - I say only at best - an approach, that does not equal, in the competences that the autonomous communities had from 143 to 151. Differential facts were the criterion for distinguishing between these communities. What happened? That these differential facts - language, culture, systems or rights outside or civil of some autonomous communities, or the economic and fiscal regime of others - were in the Constitution, in which they found their own limit. Therefore, they were no longer used to distinguish him and we had to look for something else, we had to go a little further. And at that moment we find the path of identity, the so-called signs of identity, which open up a whole range of real or imaginary possibilities, which are based on rebuilding a historical past that legitimizes that distinctive pretension and the will to do so. If they have differentiating will, I will not object to anything, there everyone with what they want to be, but, believe me, one is not more or less different because it says it a written norm or because it says it a law. But to resort to historical arguments to justify present needs, that can lead these communities to problematic and uncertain terrain, because moving from differential facts to signs of identity inevitably leads to the use of historical arguments, and ultimately to those historical arguments acting as legitimators of those requirements or of those intended differentiations. And let me tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, our present Constitution and what is derived from it is based on democratic legitimacy, and that and not another is its legitimacy, because neither history nor tradition are sources of political legitimacy in democratic constitutionalism. The political will of citizens, updated and expressed as voters in the ballot boxes, can never be replaced by a historic will of past generations who have already disappeared. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking the fellow Members of the paper, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, Mr Gómez de la Serna, especially Mr Serrano, with whom it has been a pleasure, a pride and an honour to work. And I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no fear of our Constitutional Court; on the contrary, there is confidence that it is a guarantee that the Spanish democratic system will be maintained. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u98	We turn to the opinion on the proposal for an organic law to strengthen the protection of minors and women with judicially modified capacities in the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Let us discuss the amendments. Firstly, the Joint Group will not only talk about those who have tabled amendments, but also about all those who want to establish a position. First of all, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u99	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank my party for the confidence and also for the freedom it has given me to defend some principles through our amendments, with which we wanted, first, to affirm our belief that the 2010 law is unconstitutional and to want to change it, although it has not been possible for now. Secondly, by showing our intimate conviction that aborting a human being cannot be both a human right, and we continue to think the same. And, third, to claim that every life matters and that every aborted human being shows the failure of our so-called welfare state. It is true that we have confirmed that our amendments will also not succeed in this process and that the change desired by UPN in Zapatero's law will not occur. Therefore, the pressure we can make with them must serve to do something positive, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we have done with their withdrawal: to obtain something positive, to obtain a firm commitment from both the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group, which we will also demand to be materialized in the State's General Budgets, including a specific project of aid to future mothers that we will begin to negotiate, if possible, next week with the Ministry of Health, immediately, committing more economic and social resources to the prevention, protection and support of all women who are going through this difficult trance. This, Your Honor, is the good news and the most positive of this debate. I do not hide from you that other reasons also justify the decision not to reproduce the debate we had in the Commission. First, the remote possibility - I know - of prejudging a decision of the Constitutional Court contrary to the spirit of our original position, or even of preventing a forthcoming decision of the Constitutional Court that we demand is immediate. Secondly, in UPN we defend, in matters of conscience, freedom of vote. For what? So that no one has trouble expressing their free opinion on this issue without the rigours of party disciplines and without being judged for it, for their opinion, for good or for bad. Thirdly, in any case, I am surprised by the interest of a large part of the left in using this debate only as a bold weapon against the People's Party in a game with which it shows that it does not understand the dimensions of it and in which we, ladies and gentlemen, are not going to participate or facilitate. I'm done, Madam President. I trust, ladies and gentlemen, and I say this with all my heart, that this commitment by the parliamentary group and the Government will finally be translated into a project, into aid, into support that we can all be proud of, with which we reaffirm our defence of life, of women and of freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u100	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. For the same group, Mrs Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u101	Thank you, Madam President. I rise to this rostrum to defend the amendments of the Galego Nationalist Block that are intended to maintain the text that is raised in this matter in the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act of 2010 and we do so, ladies and gentlemen, because it seems to us that this is the right thing to do. Moreover, in view of the reality that emerges from the implementation of this law in 2010 in relation to those 16- and 17-year-olds who have had to terminate a pregnancy and in view of the fact that these young people in more than 90% came accompanied by their parents and in the case of that scarce 10% who were not accompanied was duly justified, as has been proven on different occasions by difficulties or problems in family coexistence, the Galego Nationalist Block understands that what is to be done this morning by approving this law by the majority group of the House is indeed an act of serious injustice. We say it is an act of grave injustice because it unprotects these children who no longer have the protection of their parents. Although the proposal made by the People's Parliamentary Group leaves that issue of unprotected to the courts, it does so in such a way that the minor will be totally and absolutely unprotected if she needs to interrupt a pregnancy. We dare to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this law is arbitrary because it does not respond to a social need or a majority demand of society and that it is intended to respond to a minority minority and not because the majority group making the proposal, the People's Group, believes that it is just and reasonable, but because what it is trying to do is simply exercise electoral opportunism.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u102	Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, today an unfair law will be passed for young children in the Spanish State. Thank you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Rumors]] Mr. Tardà. Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment which aims to defend the 2010 law in an extreme way because it was a law of consensus and if it was not of maximum consensus, it was because the right wing did not want to agree anything. So defense in excess of the 2010 law, but reminding them that it was a consensus law, which is why we Republicans had to renounce a series of demands that we believe should be raised in the next legislature if there is a different correlation of forces. I am referring to the termination of pregnancy within twenty-two weeks, eliminating the twenty-two week period if there is a serious health hazard for the pregnant person or risks incompatible with a life worthy of the fetus, amending the Criminal Code to delete article 145, which penalizes abortion, and a set of measures that we had to renounce in the process of dialogue with other political forces that resulted in the 2010 law. For example, very important, everything that guarantees universal and free access to state-of-the-art contraceptives, including emergency contraceptives. That is to say, consensus and defence beyond the 2010 law, which is why we have amended this proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group which seeks to sabotage and dynamite a law that approved Spanish legislation to the average of European laws. However, I would like to remind you that, on the day that others are governed and in the event that social democracy is governed, the 2010 law also has to be debated not only to shield it, but to introduce perhaps other positions that at the time did not have a sufficient majority, but that in the coming years they can have it in order to guarantee much better the sexual and reproductive rights of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u106	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. Mrs. Enbeita.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, we do not know what to say about this. It's all said. We have argued, we have claimed our freedom to decide and it seems to have served no purpose. The People's Parliamentary Group is still in its 13th place and in the end they have succeeded. Congratulations, as of today we women will be less free to decide on our bodies. The excuse of age has come very well for your emotional blackmail on the unprotected, but you yourselves with this law, far from protecting younger women, limit your decisions. Being a mother at the age of sixteen will be free as it has been, but deciding not to be will no longer be such a free choice. We said in the previous debate that the majority of minors aborted with permission and, in many cases, in the company of their parents. Then we were asked what the problem was. For that is just the problem, that those who do not, those who decide to interrupt pregnancy without talking to their parents or legal guardians, usually have weighty reasons. This law, far from helping them, will leave them alone in the face of danger, because just them, the most vulnerable, will have it much more difficult. In cases of family violence, sexist violence, extreme religiosity or separated parents, young women will be left without any protection and the decision to terminate their pregnancy or not will be in the hands of third persons. But what does it matter? Some will always have private clinics or London or Biarritz and the rest we will seek our lives. You wanted to reform the Abortion Act. They couldn't do it at once, and it looks like they're trying to reform it a little bit. Today they scratch a little with age and tomorrow they will scratch not know where; so until they get away with it. Have not sex education been considered as an instrument to prevent unwanted pregnancies? No, not that. For education, Lomce and for women, restrictions. Seriously, this law will not prevent young women from continuing to experience, learn or enjoy their sexuality. Nor will they avoid the unwanted consequences of such sexual practices. The only thing they will get is that, as not so long ago, we will have to organize among ourselves so that the interruptions of pregnancy are always done with health guarantees and they will be able to blame and criminalize girls who decide to interrupt their pregnancy. As women we are, they give us one more reason to continue in the fight, because this law opposes our freedom. Surely our anger or sadness is compensated by the joy of former ministers, certain ecclesiastical hierarchies and so on. Of course! We've met the church. But it doesn't matter, we will continue to enjoy our sex, being women, our pregnancy, our non-pregnancy, our lives and our freedom. As much as you strive, our freedom belongs to us and our body too. [[Finish your euskera intervention]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Some fellow has said it, is that we don't have much to say anymore. Everything we had to say has been said so many times that it would seem repetitive, but that is not why we are going to change our speech. We return again to the debate in this House, a debate that passed through the plenary as a legislative proposal, with its debates in its entirety; that passed through the Commission, where we tabled the partial amendments; that goes through the plenary again, and then goes to the Senate. How many laps has given a modification such as the one that has undergone this law in order to be able to carry it forward by having an absolute majority such as that of the People's Party. What do you propose? A modification, as we all know, of the law in force in two specific sections: on the subject of permission or notification, that is the battle horse for which the People's Party has fought in this second phase of the legislature, because in the first phase of the legislature it fought with another battle horse much more obtuse, hard, retrograde, but that in the end it did not arrive here; they will know why. What we can say, however, is that the modification that the People's Party has tabled is unnecessary, harmful and of internal consumption. I say this because our amendments were partial, we did not make a full amendment because we considered our alternative text to be the law in force; we did not need to present an alternative text because it already exists: the law that is in force. In the Commission we tabled the amendments, which basically meant going back to the two articles that we wanted to delete with this amendment. As comrade Joan Tardà has said, to the debate of the previous law, which is currently in force, each one went with his book, each one went with ours, but it came to a basic and important consensus and fruit of it was the law that we have in force. And everyone left hairs in the catera; I think the important thing was precisely that. We are now again proposing that the law should be maintained as it is, so let us not focus on another series of amendments. Other groups have done so, they have all the freedom in the world to include amendments which, although not approved, propose - let us say - ideals of their own party. We have not wanted to do that; our approach has been: we have reached a consensus, that is the necessary consensus and we will maintain it. The aim of our amendments is to return to what was adopted. The People's Party has raised the issue of authorization or consent. They think it's going to be beneficial to the law, but I think it's clearly harmful. What children is the People's Party thinking about when it wants to approve this amendment? In minors who don't have any problems? In minors who have a friendly, loving social environment? In minors who have a fluid relationship with their parents? When we made this law and included this precept, which said exactly that consent was not needed, we thought of people who unfortunately do not live in this environment because they have problems of domestic violence. Who's gonna ask permission from a woman who gets pregnant with her own father? Who are you going to ask for permission to abort? To whom will a woman of a particular ethnic group or of a particular religion ask permission, in whose family it is taboo to do this kind of thing? The State, regardless of belief, regardless of tradition, must guarantee legal security and health security, which is what it is all about. It is not a question of whether I like it or not that someone at the age of sixteen aborts or does not abort, with the permission or without the permission of her father, but of how she should do it. If she can do it, she'll have to do it with all the guarantees because what's going to happen to us is that person who, for whatever reasons they were, feels the need to abort, will. Do you believe that because the People's Party has now decided that it will have to inform its father that person will? Well, no, and what he's gonna do is do it out of the law, it's gonna hurt even more. We've given the data a lot of times. Only 3.6% of abortions are minors and 0.44 of them have been without consent or information. Obviously, we do not understand such a change to this data when we really see that with this law we have reduced the number of abortions and, more importantly, those that have been given have been given within the law and have been given with legal certainty, with health security. I know you don't pay much attention to some reports. Amnesty International today issued a note in which it is clear precisely that the requirement of the consent of parents or legal guardians of minors will most likely involve an increase in the number of adolescents who resort to dangerous, unsafe, clandestine and illegal procedures, putting their health, well-being and even their lives at risk. It could also place minors who could be raped by their parents or persons with parental authority in a situation of special defencelessness. Furthermore, Amnesty International in its report considers the bill you intend to pass to be discriminatory, as indicated by various international bodies. Of course, there are many forms of discrimination, but the United Nations Human Rights Committee and the Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women also recently expressed concern about this abortion reform. It even says Amnesty International that it is a measure contrary to the obligations of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and has urged the Government to withdraw this bill. I know that you do not listen to Amnesty International, not in this, but you never listen to anything that has to do with freedoms, that has to do with rights of this kind, but we reiterate the defence of our amendments, amendments that say that what you want to replace must not be replaced and that the law as it is must be maintained because what matters to us is the legal and health protection of people, that I will not go into assessing why you abort or stop aborting because that is not today's debate and you know it too. That is not the debate because the People's Party, and I am glad - I will say it sincerely - has taken the position it has taken. In other words, the People's Party is currently questioning whether sixteen abortions can be carried out without permission or with permission, but it is not questioning that in the Spanish State women can have abortions. That is something that, in the end, gives reason to those who participate in the consensus. You will say that you are pending a remedy of unconstitutionality. What if the Constitutional says this law is constitutional? You will give it courage but it is that your arguments had nothing to do with the Constitution or constitutionality, were of another kind, and if we do not read in the 'Diary of Sessions' the intervention of your companion Sandra Moneo four years ago. Nothing said about the Constitution, it talked about a number of other issues. Therefore, in this sense, I believe that you accept that in Spain abortion is decriminalized and you question something about which we are against, the issue of age. Therefore, Madam President, I conclude by saying that we are defending our amendments and that, of course, we are going to vote against this amendment of the bill. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u110	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. By Union Progress and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u111	Thank you, Madam President. My group is also going to vote against this change of law for reasons which, like the other groups, we have put forward in plenary - in the whole debate - in the Commission and now again. Well, we'll have to make the effort to repeat it as many times as we need to try to add something to what has already been said. Basically, the fundamental thing is that it is a completely unnecessary legal reform that, as has also been said, breaks a consensus to which it was difficult to reach. And that, as I have also told you other times - I don't know if it impresses you much or little; I think nothing - is very serious; it is very serious in a democracy worthy of that name to go against consensus in laws that have to do with basic rights or with questions of conscience, such as the interruption of pregnancy. When a broad consensus has been reached about the current law, in which we can agree to one hundred percent or with reservations on certain issues but which meets the basic requirements, to pose the reform, as you did, as a matter of internal party policy and with a purported electoral effect is something profoundly illegitimate and also grave, and we must say so. Because yours is not a technical issue, but it is a matter of changing some of the law after they renounced a more ambitious change that Mr Gallardón withdrew at the time for reasons that they have never just explained. But you cannot go like this for life; the same thing that you cannot change the Constitution with night and light, as was done on another occasion for fiscal reasons, you cannot change a fundamental law for reasons of electoral calculation and, as always, deviated, because it turns out that even your own electorate did not ask for the change of this law. We have told you many times: laws that have to do with ethical issues, precisely because of this, cannot be inspired by private ethics of any kind. In other words, public ethics cannot be the derivation of one confessional current or another. The laws they have to do are what we have also told them many times: to provide legal certainty and to allow a decision such as to interrupt pregnancy to take place in the best health and legal conditions. It is difficult to say something original about this issue because everything is quite clear and pristine for everyone, except for you. My group would propose - if that would help to rebuild or broaden the debate at the time - a law of pure time limits where it is clear, within a certain period of time, that abortion depends exclusively on the decision of the pregnant mother and that from there it is illegal, with the health exceptions that in any case would be convenient. What is not possible is to do a purely party-restrictive debate and not to withdraw this proposal of law when they see that they have achieved something that also has quite merit - that is true -: to agree with all the opposition - something that does not usually happen most of the time - in which this reform is illegitimate, leads us to nothing, increases tension, is electoralist and, as a result, returns to one of the problems originating from this historical period: it delegitimates democracy. Because there are people who consider that their rights are threatened for no reason except that it seemed interesting to you and it seemed like an original operation to raise this reform. It has also been said - and I will not repeat this - that the exception that is envisaged regarding parental leave is based on social realities that only someone who is settled in negationism can deny, and that there is marginalization, social exclusion, that we are a very complex society where there are social groups within society that consider abortion a taboo and where there are also phenomena of violence, rape, unwanted pre-teen pregnancies, etc. Therefore, doing a kind of legal reform designed only for a middle class who lives in a world without serious tensions, neither moral, nor sexual, nor physical, does not cease to be one of those ingenuities that end up paying faces. For all this, we maintain our amendments, which are suppressive. We have not proposed an alternative text either because we do not think it appropriate to do so on such a serious subject as this, although of course we believe that the groups that have done so have the full right of the world to proceed in this way, and we ask them to withdraw and abolish this legal reform for all the reasons set out above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u112	Thank you, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. The Plural Left. Mrs. De las Heras.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u113	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it should first be recalled that the mobilization of women's organizations and associations and of the social majority in this country at first instance prevented the Government's attempt to adopt its true abortion law, a law that brought us back to pre-democratic and dark years, where there was no minimum recognition of sexual and reproductive rights or of voluntary termination of pregnancy, and marked even more restrictive assumptions than those envisaged by the Abortion Act of 1985, which intolerablely undermined women's rights to decide on their motherhood to such an extent that made them impossible. A draft law - its true law - that aroused all the alarms inside and outside our borders for its clearly religious and reactionary bias that endangered the health and life of women in the face of the impossibility of having a legal and safe abortion. A law that contravened all international treaties and resolutions on the protection of human rights to the sexual and reproductive health of women. A law, its true law, which cost them a minister and which they had to withdraw before the social majority which, then, made clear to him in the streets and in the institutions their firm and strong rejection. That is what has happened and today it is worth remembering because that, its true law of abortion, was taken before Minister Gallardón and has brought them and led them throughout virtually the entire legislature, bringing to light an outdated debate in the Spanish society of the twenty-first century and causing a problem where it did not exist. And since you have not been able to serve the interests of the most reactionary and dogmatic sectors, now, at the last minute of the legislature, we are engaged in this absolutely unnecessary reform of the existing law on sexual and reproductive health and voluntary termination of pregnancy, with which you intend to appease the discontent caused in your ranks at the cost of endangering the health and life of 16- and 17-year-olds at risk and of the most vulnerable women. And they do it in the most despicable way, obviating and eluding reports that endorse a modification of this stalemate and using the lie as the main argument. There is nothing more to go - it is very easy, it is public - to the website of the People's Party and see the reasons that you explain to your activists and supporters to justify this reform and why they did not carry out the other. I quote in this way: The Government will seek a solution to those most undesirable situations that generate greater consensus, such as the possibility that sixteen-year-old girls will be able to abort without the knowledge of their parents. They lie, they lie blatantly and intentionally because the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Discontinuation of Pregnancy - which is now amended in its article 13.4 - does not in any case say that young women of sixteen and seventeen years of age can abort without the consent of their parents; on the contrary, it was a requirement to be able to interrupt their pregnancies. Only those who had so far demonstrated serious conflicts, such as ill-treatment or abuse, were exempt - to the point of satiety. And it is precisely against these young people, who need greater protection, against whom they are now throwing their ideological, reactionary and retrograde prejudices, also violating their rights and abocating them to an illegal and unsafe abortion. Today they consummate this misconception by imposing in the short time that their absolute majority is left and knowing that they do not have the social majority that swallows them. Throughout the legislature, the People's Party has done nothing other than take political and legislative measures aimed at deepening the inequality gap and discrimination against women. And we don't tell them from the Plural Left, they've told them from the United Nations. This is where we must ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this Government's efforts and efforts throughout the legislature to undermine the right of women to decide on their motherhood and on their bodies freely and responsibly, which it has done in addition by using the hypocritical argument that the protection of the right to life as well as that of underage women is being strengthened, we must ask ourselves, as I say, what it has done to combat and eradicate discrimination and macho violence that surrounds the lives of dozens of women every year in our country, what resources and efforts it has put in place to guarantee the lives and dignity of women victims of macho violence, who continue to be in a grave situation of fear and defencelessness because of lack of social and economic resources when faced with separation or divorce. Because - we all know that - we are already at the end of the legislature and the government has not demonstrated with obvious facts, not with words or good intentions, any intention to deal with this scourge that women suffer because of the mere fact that they are. But - yes, that is so - they have hastened to the last minute to carry out this legislative reform that they do against the younger and more vulnerable women, without listening to the proposals of the majority of opposition groups or of society, alluding to a consensus without any consensus, in the worst way and by a handful of votes, hoping that the situation will become favorable to them to carry out their real reform with which they intend to put an end to the right of women to decide without cutbacks, without guardianship on their body and on their motherhood. But the Government - and I have to tell you clearly - has not considered in its plans that the social majority of this country respects this right of women against an ultra-conservative and reactionary minority who cohabits and lives within the People's Party. They just don't know that reality, they ignore it. The People's Party does not want to acknowledge - and this is the case - that the years of efforts, struggles, mobilizations of women in defense of their sexual and reproductive rights and of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy are not going to fall in vain, even though today we are going to take a step backwards with this nefarious amendment of the law they are perpetrating today, because as soon as the correlation of forces changes - and we have said so many in this House - the 2010 law will be respected and fully developed, and from there we will continue to move forward. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u114	Thank you, Mrs. De las Heras. For the Convergence and Union Group, first of all, Mrs Tarruella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u115	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Deputies of the Democratic Union of Catalonia, I will defend our position in the face of this bill. As you are very well aware, since we have been talking about this issue repeatedly these days, we Members of the European Democratic Union do not make an amendment to the whole of it, nor do we make any amendments to the wording of this law. We didn't do it from conviction and coherence. We, the deputies and the deputies of Union, in the previous legislature voted against this law. We convinced him that he had unconstitutional articles, articles that members of the People's Party appealed to the Constitutional Court; by the way, five years have passed and he has not yet delivered his ruling. We opposed the current law, in addition to the conviction that we have about its unconstitutionality, for some aspects that we believe to be wrong; one of these aspects, which was also very socially criticized, is that with this amendment we want to correct now: that it did not record the authorization of the parents for children under sixteen and seventeen years of age in cases of termination of pregnancy. Because of this conviction that no woman interrupts her pregnancy for pleasure and that it is now when she needs to be accompanied most, when she needs the support of her more direct relatives, especially if she is a minor, that is why we think that few decisions can be made in this life and in those ages that have more significance than that of interrupting that pregnancy. During the procedure in the Commission, we did not want to discuss the amendments of the other opposition groups. We abstained - and we are going to abstain - overall from all of them, considering that the reason for the proposed law was only to add that parental consent for minors, because, as I said earlier, we did not want to go into any other aspect until we knew the Constitutional Court's ruling. Because, ladies and gentlemen, one thing I would like to highlight. You may be in favour of abortion or against it, but I'm sure we all agree that it's very hard and difficult for a woman to face at that time. Here it seems that we are forgetting that aspect when some political parties are using this delicate issue as an electoral weapon and political wear and tear of the adversary. It has already cost the People's Party the resignation of a minister and open a debate like this now, at the end of the parliamentary term, without waiting for the resources presented by its own Members, nor does it seem to us welcome. It is therefore for consistency, that political coherence that we have maintained since 2010, and until we know the ruling of that Constitutional Court, that the Members of the Union will continue to defend our position. As I have already announced, we are going to abstain and we are not going to discuss the amendments of the groups, some of which we like more and some perhaps less, but we do not want to go into it and we are only going to support that part that we missed in this law, which is paternal consent for minors. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Tarruella. By the same group, Mrs Ciuró.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. I rise to the rostrum to speak on behalf of the Deputies of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia who, as you know, are free to vote on these issues. In this regard, I would like to say that some consider them to be matters of morality and public order, even of religiosity; others have another opinion, which motivates us not to have a unanimous vote. I do want to defend the amendments that some Members of the European Parliament have tabled, and first of all to refer to the fact that we are again debating here in plenary the amendment of the law on the voluntary termination of pregnancy, in this case of 16- or 17-year-olds. He can only refer to this amendment as a consolational reform to which the People's Party has embraced after having had to withdraw the Gallardon bill. That bill showed how neither the voraciousness in the use of the absolute majority could obtain its processing, and not only ended up withdrawing the draft but also ended up withdrawing the minister: answering in the street, answering the opposition and answering in his own ranks. I sincerely believe that it was an issue that could not be dealt with either worse or more frivolously. I want to defend the amendments that we have tabled with three objective considerations. The first objective consideration I would like to put on the table is that you, in the explanatory statement of the submitted draft, say that Law 2/2010 prevents parents and guardians from fulfilling their legal obligation to protect and care for minors in exercise of parental authority. They argue this on the basis that now, at this time, young women do not need parental consent for the voluntary termination of an unwanted pregnancy. True, no consent is required, but they are required to be informed. If the relationship develops in a positive and appropriate way, as is the case with almost 90% of young women, they not only inform their parents or guardians of the situation but also come accompanied when they voluntarily terminate their pregnancy. In other words, young women already have their parents or guardians in the majority. Therefore, it is not true that the law prevents the exercise of parental authority and this is objectively true because the day by day so endorses it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I think you will agree that being able to exercise parental authority does not depend on the laws, depends on the responsibility of the person who has the right, and by many laws that they pass they will never get the right-obligation of parental authority to be exercised properly and responsibly. Another aspect that I want to defend with the greatest objectivity possible is something that we believe to be very important to the Convergence Democrática and that has not yet emerged in the midst of this debate. In this bill, you equate children under the age of sixteen or seventeen years with women with a modified legal capacity, when it comes to two different issues. Being a 16- or 17-year-old has nothing to do with presenting some cognitive or intellectual dysfunction. To consider this aspect comparable is not to know the reality of women with modified legal capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, incapacitation entails the deprivation of the exercise of rights, so it must be carried out with great care, in a voluntary trial, with all the legal guarantees in order to obtain an adequate sentence. These sentences should be authentic tailor-made suits - with the delimitation of the extent of the fundamentally motivated incapacity, since it affects the free development of the personality - and the People's Party dispatches it with extreme frivolity. Thus, as is apparent from the letter of the law, a woman incapacitated, for example, for the property administration is, without any other consideration, a woman with a modified legal capacity, ergo is a woman who cannot decide whether or not to interrupt a pregnancy, no matter how old it may be. This doesn't make any sense. Ladies and gentlemen, of the People's Party, attention and caution with regard to the right to the free development of personality with regard to the modified legal capacity and, in general, with regard to the rights and freedoms of individuals. When they are manipulated by you they run the risk of being empty of content. [[The Lord]] Finally, objectivity also, because their legal reform does not sufficiently protect children who are helpless. Who are the helpless minors? Those who cannot rely on their parents or guardians. Why are they helpless? Various, because they do not have parents, because they do not exercise parental authority because they are disabled in turn, drug addicts, victims of family violence, parents in prison, parents with very strong religious convictions who reject abortion in themselves and therefore force them to continue with an unwanted pregnancy. Against this backdrop, what is the effect of helplessness? Undoubtedly, the vulnerability of these minors, the legal interest to be protected, in our view. You say that you are a minority, right; barely 10% claim that you cannot go with your parents or guardians to the interruption of an unwanted pregnancy. To treat these vulnerable minors only by referring them to administrative authorization within 24 hours or to the judiciary is to turn their backs, which should be the legal good to protect. Can they ensure that the corresponding judgment authorizing the interruption will be handed down within the legal time limits provided for in Law 2/2010? Can you be sure of that? What do you think these minors will do in the face of this cold administrative landscape? If your decision is to interrupt the pregnancy, they will not hesitate, they will achieve their task even if they endanger their own health and, probably, without clinical or psychological accompaniment, only the one that can provide you with the Administration that is better organized in this regard. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are you really reassured that a resolution is being issued on time by the competent authority? Does this not mean for you to disagree with minors, but with a calm conscience? Do you really not believe that more than making the decision the important thing is the consequences of that decision made? Let each one answer these questions...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u118	Your Honor, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u119	... according to your loyal knowledge and understanding, but I believe that the law must be to protect the weakest and I have the feeling that they are systematically legislating in the opposite direction throughout the legislature. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Socialist Group, Mrs Alvarez has the floor. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Ladies and gentlemen, today the media are alert to know how many Conservative MEPs are going to break the voting discipline. I hope that story will not distract them from what really matters and that what the People's Party is going to break today is the lives of hundreds of young people who will be deprived of their decision about their motherhood, without giving them legal or procedural guarantees to defend their interests. [[Applauds]] It was regrettable that the minister had left the Chamber, that he had come to celebrate and celebrate the Children's Act and had fled when he was on the turn to a law that punished women. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it says your very brief statement of reasons that this law - I quote, and I quote - removes the possibility that minors can give consent on their own without even informing their parents. - I close quotes. I have to tell you that a motive statement is not good for lying; it is not the right place. You see, if that's the reason this law they bring us is not relevant, because the problem does not exist. The current Abortion Act already ensures that legal guardians have that information. Article 13 which they seek to repeal is of an impeccable legal invoice. The text that you delete consists of three paragraphs, where it is recognized that consent belongs to the pregnant young woman; it ensures that parents are aware of the circumstances, but protects the safety of those who are at risk, and these are perfectly bound by the law. The exception is to make such a communication, in order to safeguard young women in certain danger of domestic violence, threats, coercion, ill-treatment, or those in situations of uprooting or helplessness; as I said, it safeguards and protects them from informing them of whether it involves exposing them to coercion or violence. With your reform, you eliminate that system of protection and therefore condemn them to imposed motherhood or unsafe abortion. Ladies and gentlemen, your counter-reform is unnecessary. What problem does it solve? Look, nine out of ten teenagers interrupted the pregnancy with their parents and, you know, why? Because most Spanish families are empathetic families with their daughters and respectful of their decisions. But not all families are or can be. Many young people live in circumstances of vulnerability, destabilization or domestic violence, and their reform destabilizes them. The translation of data from ACAI clinic reports tells us that, every year, about 500 young women with unwanted pregnancies will be exposed to these kinds of situations. It is those to whom this reform will affect in a reckless manner. These young people can donate an organ, they can decide to be mothers, but they can't decide not to be mothers; and they can't decide because with your modification you eliminate the presumption that these young people are mature and therefore equate them to the disabled. In addition, you have legislated in such a way that your rule does not allow legal protection for women of sixteen and seventeen years of age. I'll explain it to you. The literality of his law speaks that the Civil Code - and I quote - will serve to resolve conflicts regarding the provision of consent by legal representatives. However, it does not say anything about the conflicts or discrepancies between the minor and her representatives. That means absolutely unprotecting the interests of sixteen - seventeen - year - old women. In fact, with the adoption of its law, there are three rules that contribute to the development of the actions that the child can take if she wants to interrupt the pregnancy and there is opposition from her legal guardians. The Civil Code, which you cite in your standard, but also the Organic Law on Amendment of the Child Protection and Dependency System, which we have seen here just a few minutes ago, and the Voluntary Jurisdiction Act. Section 163 of the Civil Code and section 9 of the Child Protection Act provide that, in order for a child to protect and defend his or her interests, he or she may seek legal assistance and the appointment of a judicial defender. The third develops time frames and other procedural issues. Well, you have legislated on the sidelines of this abortion case, leaving the vulnerable without legal protection. I should like to go into detail: in the event that there is opposition from the parents and the minor seeks to defend their interests by requiring the appointment of a judicial defender, they should know that the law does not stipulate a time limit for the authorization and acceptance of the office of that judicial defender. In this area, the fulfilment of a short time limit for the immediate adoption of resolutions is essential, since otherwise women are placed in an irreversible situation, as it would exceed the legal time limit for a voluntary termination of pregnancy. To this should be added the time limits for the judicial secretary to consider whether the authorization should be granted, the subsequent appointment of the judicial defender and the time limits of the procedure itself. If you had a vocation to safeguard the safety of minors at risk of violence, you should have foreseen that these situations need specific time limits, since the itinerary of the Voluntary Jurisdiction Act stipulates time limits for resolution that imply the practical impossibility of performing abortion in the fourteen weeks stipulated by the law. All these rules that I have mentioned to you are applicable to the defence of the interests of non-emancipated women; the problem is that you have legislated in cachos and now you do not fit the different rules. The problem is that they have brought to this House unrelated laws, without having foreseen the procedural system for the case of abortion authorized by a judge and, by not introducing a deadline, de facto prevent minors from being able to defend their interests effectively when they are contrary to those of their legal guardians. The procedural iter that these laws incorporate prevents what the law guarantees, because its law does not prohibit abortion to minors - they have realized, haven't they? - but what they do is condition the guardians to authorize and, if later there are discrepancies, the procedural path violates the legal guarantees so that they can defend their interests, since it is not ensured that it can be resolved in time, which implies the impossibility of interrupting the pregnancy within the time allowed by the law. The labyrinth therefore eliminates procedural guarantees and leaves unprotected 16- and 17-year-olds with respect to reproductive rights. I am going to ask Mrs González Vázquez to explain when she comes up here what solution you are going to give, for example, to a minor with a parent who considers that pregnancy to be dishonorable. Ladies and gentlemen, these beings exist and are generally violent. Do you really believe that it is logical to claim the requirement of a third party to access a legal abortion when that third party may be the victim? Ladies and gentlemen, as euphemistic as you put into this law, it does not seek to protect young women, but hinders their normal development, abandons them and attacks them. It is not possible to legislate to force young women to assume the consequences of decisions taken by others. To impose on a young woman an imposed maternity harms in the long term the quality of her life, since an early motherhood, and more so if imposed, is an obstacle to her development. Do you really think that you can impose on a young woman something as transcendental as being a mother? Because that's what we're discussing here today and not whether or not parents should know. The parents already know, and now I'll give them the data. Its health policy on sexual and reproductive rights lives behind the scenes, attacks rights, but does not solve problems. [[Applauds]] Do you know what the problem is? The problem is that 40% of young women who have sex do not use contraception, but you have devoted the whole legislature to attack and confusion and, not a single effort, to prevent unwanted pregnancies. [[Applauds]] That's his main problem. All groups have expressed the unnecessary need for this reform. My colleague and rapporteur for the law, Congresswoman Susana Ros, has already marked our position: a non-routine to reform and a no to any amendment that implies some kind of kindness, so there is no possible improvement of this law except suppression. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. With this reform they have avoided having to formulate a new bill with mandatory reports. They do not take into account the immediate or future consequences for these young people. That is why we are going to do everything necessary to defend the current law, which is working well. It is reducing the number of abortions, it is compromising public health with women's rights, it has given legal certainty and it has laid the foundations for the prevention of unwanted pregnancies, but above all it has been particularly careful with the protection of vulnerable young women, to whom you now put in a limit. I'll write you one last note. They are told by the women's associations that you have up there this afternoon - two points, quotes -: 'This war that you have undertaken against women's rights will not win it, will not win it' [[Applauds]] Because the commitment of the Socialists has always been clear, we will return rights to women if the People's Party dares to take them away. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez. Position-fixing turn. I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to me to speak once again to close this point and to report on the decision taken in the Committee on Health and Social Services, in relation to the final text which is before this House today, on the proposal for a law that our parliamentary group has brought to this House today and which ends its proceedings in the Congress of Deputies. First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their work in presenting their amendments, both partial and total, as they have served for a fruitful debate in which many key issues have been clarified in a debate that is possibly one of the most important ethical challenges facing any Government and any society today. During these months of processing, we have also seen how the spokesman for Equality of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Montón, left this House as a member of the Council of Universal Health and Public Health in the Valencian Community. From here I would like to wish you the best in your new task, which you will surely carry out with the same passion and tenacity with which the Equality spokesman in this House has held, and I wish the best to your successor, who has just begun her task. I would also like to thank very sincerely and affectionately for the work done by my two fellow co-rapporteurs in this bill, the deputies Beatriz Escudero and María Jesús Bonilla, on whose behalf I also take the floor today. It is the fourth debate that we have on the proposal for a law and, therefore, today it is up to us to summarize the activity carried out and the lessons learned during the process. This parliamentary group, together with the Government of Spain, took the decision to amend the current legislation on abortion in order to reinstate the consent of parents when it comes to a voluntary interruption of pregnancy to a minor, i.e. a girl, a girl under 16 or 17 years of age. The reasons have been explained here and in other forums in detail. It is essential to give back to parents the ability to support their daughters at this very complicated time of their lives, in addition to having, Mrs Álvarez, the assurance that they are aware of the state of pregnancy in which they are in, since their legislation allows abortion to occur in these cases without the knowledge of the parents of the child, and that these children make the most appropriate decision with their parents regarding their pregnancy, whatever this may be. This had been the most controversial point and had caused greater rejection and alarm in Spanish society of the legislation adopted in 2010 by the Socialist Government. According to a survey conducted by El País in June 2009, 56% of Socialist Party voters were opposed to abortion without the consent or knowledge of their parents. Several prominent leaders of the PSOE, I regret Mr Barreda, having to mention it again here, including you, Don Alfonso Guerra, Don Juan Carlos Rodríguez Ibarra and Don José Bono publicly disagreed and with one of the mentioned ones I have even had the opportunity to remember their discrepancy in the past days. [[Rumors]] They did, Mrs Álvarez, wonder about the lack of guarantees of the law that was passed in 2010, since article 13.4, I remind you, allows minors to claim any kind of conflict to not even inform their parents. In this respect, Mr Agirretxea, I would like to remind you that your amendment at the time was substantially amended and amended by this addition of this last sentence which makes it completely different - I believe - from what you wanted at the time when you incorporated this amendment into Organic Law 2/2010. It is not necessary to explain why the minority has different legal treatment both civil and criminally. The minority legally protects persons who have not reached the precise psychological maturity to calibrate the scope of certain actions or to make certain decisions without the precise support. We consider it incoherent and also painful that the Spanish minors of sixteen and seventeen years of age may find themselves unprotected when deciding whether or not to continue with their pregnancy and we firmly believe that the best protection for them, the best advice and the best support, Mrs Ciuro, in more than 90% of the cases in their families, their parents and their mothers, as evidenced by the fact that they do so with the consent of their parents, who are the ones exercising parental authority, according to our Civil Code. I would like to highlight this argument, since it is clear that it has been legislated for a very small minority. The law assumed, as I said at the time, the exceptional situations of violent or abusive parents as if they were all Spanish parents, formally preventing them from exercising parental authority in one of the most complicated moments of their life and the lives of their teenage daughters, avoiding their obligation as parents - established in our Constitution in articles 27 and 39 and in article 154 of the Civil Code - the obligation to care for their children who are not emancipated, to keep them in their company, to feed them, to educate them and to provide them with comprehensive training. Mrs Alvarez, I would like to remind you that the Civil Code envisages solutions to those examples of minors who may be in situations such as those you mentioned in your previous speech. I want to be very clear on one issue, because I know that this is an issue that concerns many voters in the People's Party, many Spanish citizens and some Members of Parliament who were already in 2010. [[Rumors.- Several honourable Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u123	Please, ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Keep the same silence that has so far been full of respect for those who intervene.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to be very clear because I know that this issue concerns many people, as I said, many voters of the People's Party, many Spanish citizens, many mothers and many parents, some Members of the People's Parliamentary Group who were already in 2010, and it is that with this proposal of organic law we are not validating the rest of the issues that were appealed to the Constitutional Court, but we continue to keep our doubts about their constitutionality. We therefore maintain our appeal, since we cannot and do not want to withdraw it. We consider it absolutely essential that the High Court should rule on all of them, because we are responsible, we fulfil our obligations and we hope that others will do so as well. [[Applauds]] With this essential and necessary pronouncement, we can at last build on a solid basis a legislative response in which we will seek the greatest possible consensus, even in the ranks of those groups today that are opposed to our proposed law in which, as I mentioned earlier, very relevant and prominent people showed in their day their disagreement with the point that we intend to modify today. That is why we did not wish during the course of the partial amendments to rule on any of them, so that it would be the Constitutional Court itself that feels doctrine; nor on the amendments that took up the points of our constitutional appeal, nor on the others that the different parliamentary groups have tabled to amend the text of our proposal or even of the existing legislation. [[Rumors]] I would also like to take this opportunity to say again that the amendments tabled have been very significant. Why? Because they have made it very clear that in Spanish legislation currently in force abortion is not a right of women. [[Applauds]] Both from La Izquierda Plural and from Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya in its amendments to the whole and in its partial amendments it has been intended to include in the text, in its article 1, the expression 'the right of women to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy', clearly proof that so far in our legislation this right does not exist, as established by the Constitutional Court in successive judgments concerning the search for a balance between the rights of women and the protection of the unborn. As we have already said in this rostrum, Organic Law 2/2010 was extremely careful to describe this issue, escaping this definition that it does not use at any time. Abortion, ladies and gentlemen, in our system would be a women's right if the amendments to the whole or partial of the Republican Left or the Plural Left had prospered and that has neither happened nor is going to happen today. [[Rumors]] In conclusion, I would like to refer specifically to the statement by Mr Salvador, spokesman for the Navarro People's Union, thanking him for sharing with the People's Parliamentary Group the concern for mothers, pregnant women and children, who will be given special attention by the Government and by the People's Parliamentary Group at the final stage of the legislature, as has happened in the rest of the legislature and as has been seen a few hours ago in this House with children, who for the first time in the recent history of Spain have advanced legislation establishing the principle of the best interests of the child as an absolute priority of the Government's function, as Mrs Macarena Montesinos has just made clear in her speech a few hours ago. I would also like to thank the representative of the Democratic Union of Catalonia, Mrs Tarruella, who has clearly defended the position of her party, which, like the People's Party, believes that there should be a clarification on this matter which gives rise to the greatest possible agreement. He has argued, like us, that the issue of minors under the age of sixteen and seventeen years in connection with abortion was something that we needed to change immediately. As you are well aware, the rulings of the Constitutional Court are unappealable.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u125	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u126	I'm done, President. It is our intention to wait for its pronouncement with the aim of resolving, in the best possible way, an issue of great concern to a large part of the population of our country and, in particular, to the voters of the People's Party. For now, we want to carry forward the reform of this point, that of the under-seventeen-seventeen-year-olds, which is the one that has caused the most concern to Spanish society as a whole. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. [[Mr Barreda Fontes asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gónzález Vázquez. Mr. Barreda, I imagine by allusions. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u128	Indeed. As has been repeatedly recalled by some statements, which I did at the time, I would like to recall in their literality. I said on that occasion: If my daughter had to abort, I would like her to tell me so that I could accompany her. But I have also remembered now, listening to the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party, and above all to the other Members who have spoken in the debate, what Keynes once said when he was accused of having changed his mind or of having nuanced an opinion because they had convinced him of the arguments. He said: When reality changes and circumstances change and new arguments convince me, I change position. And he asked, "What are you doing, gentleman?" I have changed my position because I have been convinced of the arguments I have heard on other occasions in this House on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause.-Rumores.-Mrs. González Vázquez asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Barreda. Mrs González Vázquez, you also have a minute. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u130	It is simply to thank Mr Barreda for his statement and for stating what we have said at some point in relation to his words. It is often, in some parliamentary groups rather than in others, to change positions; to declare one thing and then to do the opposite. Thank you very much. [[- Cheers. - Rumours. - Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs González Vázquez. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet and leave the room, if you do not want to remain in the seat, as quickly as possible. - DRAFT LAW CONCERNING EXTRAORDINARY CREDITS AND A SUPPLEMENT OF IMPORTED CREDIT OF 856.440.673.35 EUROS IN THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE BUDGET, TO ACCEPT THE PAYMENT OF OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE ADMINISTRATIVE PROGRAMMES AND TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OTHER DEPARTMENTAL ACTIVITIES [[PROCEEDINGS OF THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2015 OF 14 MAY]] [[File number 121/000159]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u132	Next item on the agenda. Opinion of the Commission of the draft law granting extraordinary credits and a credit supplement of EUR 856,440,673.35 in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, to cover the payment of obligations relating to special arms programmes and the performance of other activities of the department, coming from the Royal Decree-Law 7/2015, of 14 May. To defend in plenary the amendments made to this initiative, which also has the time to set positions, the Joint Group has the floor, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. We defend the amendments presented to this bill with the same arguments that we expressed when we objected to the validation of the royal decree that supports the bill, the Royal Decree-Law 7/2015, of 14 May. Ladies and gentlemen, after being very attentive, in particular, to the speech by Mrs Barreiro Álvarez, Member of the Group of the European People's Party, in the whole debate on this bill about eight days ago, we have to say that the reasons we have to maintain our amendments remain, even with greater emphasis if it is possible, first of all, because we are talking about a credit supplement that is done through a real decree-law and that is not the first time that it is done. Since governing the People's Party, a royal decree-law has been adopted annually, setting out a series of credit supplements to pay for certain commitments made by the Ministry of Defence. That is, because of what is said from the ministry when it defends these royal decrees and, moreover, because of the continuity of their approval, it means that the Government actually covers the budgets it makes annually of the Ministry of Defence, to tell the citizen that the Government reduces expenditures in the Ministry of Defence, military expenditures. This is not the case, because annual amounts similar to 2015 are being increased to this ministry, which on this occasion is more than 856 million, as the President of the House has just explained. We can therefore say that we are against the real decree, insofar as the Government is covering up the reality of the budgets of this ministry by trying to tell citizens that it reduces expenditure in a ministry in which, in fact, in a situation of serious economic crisis such as that in which we live, all citizens understand that they must be reduced. Mrs Barreiro Álvarez, to which I referred earlier, argued the other day, in order to try to convince us that we are not in a fair position on this issue, the issue of employment and the need for the Government to pay and meet these commitments for the generation of sixty thousand jobs, etc. In addition, he had the opportunity to refer to certain places in the Spanish State where there is an arms industry. Specifically, he named Ferrol. I do not want to miss the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to say that if the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party refers to Ferrol, he will refer to Navantia. In that case, I want to say that the workers of Navantia-Fene, in particular in the Ferrol region, have been waiting for years to be able to work. That is, it is totally and absolutely false what was said here. Moreover, there are two frigates committed by the Government to say, in an election campaign, that there will be employment and workload in this shipyard, and that does not happen year after year. And what can we say, ladies and gentlemen, about the weapons factory in Santa Barbara in A Coruña, which closed a few years ago with hundreds of jobs ahead. Therefore, I am not clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this commitment to government spending - which was adopted at the time in the Royal Decree-Law, and today in the bill to be adopted - is an expenditure for employment in the Spanish State. Of course, as far as Galicia is concerned, there are no jobs that at this time depend on the Government's goodwill in paying debts or commitments. We would regret that this defence of the People's Group's employment a few days ago in this House concerns jobs generated outside the State, which, while it is important that people work all over the planet, of course, at a time of crisis and unemployment such as that in the Spanish State would not be the most appropriate. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we maintain our position in defence of our amendments and against this bill, stating that the workers of Navantia Fene continue to wait for a workload, despite the fact that the government in successive electoral campaigns promises them that there will be economic activity in the shipyards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u135	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this more than a bill will pass into the history of Spanish parliamentarianism as the instruction manual on how to whiten a royal decree that has the face of unconstitutionality and therefore of illegality. The instruction manual will say: first, the royal decree is approved with the extraordinary credit, as every year since 2012, of 800 million euros in this case; second, it is accepted to treat it as a bill to avoid a new remedy of unconstitutionality as that which we have already presented several groups last year; third, no amendment of the opposition is accepted to ensure that in the decree, as it was approved, it is saved until the last coma, because if they had had the least interest that the contributions of the opposition had been incorporated into that decree they would have accepted some amendment, but nothing, zero absolute; fourth, the debate is concluded here without taking into account, without listening, without hearing what is a clamor not only in Spain - in this House of all parliamentary groups - but in Europe, what all European governments are doing, starting with the German - which is the reference of this Government for many other matters -, which is to audit arms programmes. Why? Because the world of defence is a particularly opaque world, a world that lends itself especially to fraud, abuse and misappropriation of public funds, it is therefore appropriate for an external audit - as Germany has done, with KPMG and other auditors - to ensure, as we have requested in various initiatives and in the amendments which have ignored, that the programmes are the right ones for Spanish defence, that the expenditure is the right one and, above all, that it is done well, that is what the opacity of the Ministry of Defence prevents control of this House. When you finish the procedure you have carried out, you have your actual whitewashed decree, you make sure that the Constitutional cannot throw it away, but you continue to do the same defence policy and the same budgetary policy, which is the policy that the Court of Auditors has, on numerous occasions, backed up in other chapters of the defence budget, such as that of international missions. Therefore, today they will make their pantomime, they will whiten this royal decree, but they will continue to cause the same concern to the industry. They began by approving the extraordinary credits for this procedure to give the industry calm and they have managed to give it restlessness, because the budgetary procedure is in question - the Constitutional Court is studying it - because all the groups in this House have opposed it and because you are not going to rule forever. The industry is therefore afraid that these arms programmes, which have a planning period of up to 2030, when the government changes and stops ruling the People's Party, cannot continue as they have so far. Wanting to do the industry a favor in the person of his main lobbyist in this House, who is Minister Morenes, they have ended up causing serious injury to the industry. This is the People's Party's weapons industry policy, this is the defence policy, and this is the instruction manual on how to whiten a real decree, for which they certainly do not count on my group, because we will not vote in favour of it. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Lozano. For the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budgets is returning to this plenary today, in an express procedure which has more to do with a legal alibi than with a debate - they have already explained the reasons from this rostrum to the representative of the People's Party - the law authorizing the payment of the annual arms bill in this case, as far as the EPAs are concerned, of EUR 846 million in public debt. [[The lady]] Despite the tortuousness of the procedure, from the Plural Left we want to take advantage to put on the table what we believe the Government should do when it comes to addressing the future of special arms programmes, which is undoubtedly at the heart of this debate. We believe that it is appropriate to do so by answering a number of questions. The former have to do with formal issues. First, is it correct, from the point of view of planning, good governance, transparency, the right to information, even from the point of view of legality, that these expenses are not reflected in the general budgets of the State and have not been reflected in any of the years of this legislature? Secondly, the fact that they are not included in the General Budgets of the State, how does it have to be interpreted by the political parties, by the parliamentary groups that we are represented in this House and by the citizens, who are seeing it out? And we also want to know whether or not that means that the public accounts of the State are being permanently distorted. Thirdly, is this the right way to address a debate of these dimensions in just one week? We finished the plenary session in which the whole was voted on, the presentation was called, the presentation report was signed that same evening and the next day, a week ago, the Committee on Budgets was called to ventilate from a pen the amendments that are being brought here today to this plenary. It is absolutely shameful, and that is why we are asking, is this the right way to address this debate or for the People's Party Government a simple and crude instrumentization of the procedure for the validation of the royal decree as a bill for healing in health, with no more courage than to disguise another decree for the sake of legal certainty? It is important that we all answer these questions, because at least for our group, for the Plural Left, the form in democracy is very important, and we are tired of seeing how you use the absolute majority, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, twisting the legislative process to unsuspected limits and saving the legal system to its interests to more than dangerous levels. The ways in which they have applied to impose payment of the annual bill of arms programmes answer these questions on their own. During 2012, 2013 and 2014 they allocated extrabudgetarily and by decree the frill of 3,543.76 million euros to finance the purchase of weapons through these programs. To this figure we add what we are debating here today, only with regard to armaments EUR 846 million, adding a total of EUR 4,390 million throughout the legislature, which were never addressed in the budget debate and which have been paid using public debt. According to their data, this figure amounts to nothing more and nothing less than 76% of this year's defence budget. And the EUR 846 million increase in the defence budget is 15%. All these reflections that have to do with the formality lead us to the fundamental questions, which are those that we place in the amendments that I defend today from this rostrum. These are political issues, ladies and gentlemen, because we are here to make policy, as the opportunity or not for this expenditure, in one of the toughest legislatures in our country's history. In a legislature characterized by austerity and cuts, from La Izquierda Plural we wanted to put on the table whether or not this was a State priority, whether or not this should have been paid before other things. Obviously, the People's Party has denied this possibility. We also wanted to discuss the suitability of the materials we acquired and whether these materials are really going to be useful to ensure the operationality of our Armed Forces, which is absolutely collapsed economically precisely because it has to cover this type of expenditure. In this same direction, and something that we consider equally or more important, we demanded a deep debate on our defence policy, so that we could clearly determine whether or not we needed this type of material for the satisfaction of that defence model. Well, none of these issues have been possible. It is clear that our group does not share its policy of defence or external action. This morning, during the debate on the agreement of cooperation with the United States in the field of defence - specifically for the use of the bases of Morón and Rota - it became clear to me. You continue to cling to a model of defence policy to NATO dictates; today it has become meridianly clear, black on white in this rostrum. It is a model that has proved to be failed, a model that is based on the doctrine of fear, on the escalation of war and on rearmament, and that model does nothing but involve more violence and insecurity. It is a model of defence that consolidates, moreover radically, an economic model conditioned precisely to this type of industry. Our group considers it essential to have an open and calm debate on these matters, and to do so we need, first, to study what our commitments are, what expenditures we have and what commitments we have made, to audit them, to audit the debt, to restructure it if necessary and above all to dispense with those issues that are not useful for the Spanish defence, that there are; and we do not say this, as the professionals of the Armed Forces themselves say. We believe that military mortgages should be avoided, despite the fact that this Government is moving in the opposite direction and that this legislature has even increased its commitments in this area. And we believe this because they condition other kinds of policies that are vital to our view for a correct exit from the crisis, in which we are still sinking, for example, research and development policies. Ladies and gentlemen, these policies must serve, as Mr Montoro says, as a lever in driving a new productive model that is radically socially responsible, which is what our country and the citizens of our State really need. Therefore, we also proposed that the credits granted by the Ministry of Industry to these companies for the production of these materials be analysed; they are granted under R & D+i policies. It is important to know how many of these credits have been returned, it is important to know how many millions we have advanced to these companies to produce them. I think I remember that in this year's budget debate the Secretary of State spoke of just over a hundred million who had returned to the state's public coffers; I think I remember that it was 147 million. Well, we want to know exactly what state these credits are in. In this section, as some previous spokesperson has already done, I would like to place special emphasis on employment. When we talk about the conversion of this R+D+i, which is now focused and enhanced on the military, towards its civilian facet, we are talking about nothing but the conversion of industry, the maintenance and the increase of employment. So, save yourself that kind of argument, please, because we're not talking about that. Of course, we are aware that it is a complex debate, that it has to be a gradual, gradual process, that has to involve many concerts, but obviously we have to start moving in that direction, because we are talking about the medium and long-term policy of this country, in the same way that these debts mortgage us in the medium and long term, and therefore that is the substantive political debate that we have to address. We're talking about strengthening what's already started. In Spain there are already companies in the sector that are pushing lines for the design of weather stations, floating structures and ships to install and support marine wind farms, for example; and nothing happens, we are talking about deepening this logic of conversion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about getting ahead of something that will necessarily, and even for survival, have to happen. There are previous experiences in States that in post-conflict times had to convert their industry, which was very focused on the military. Let's study, learn, talk politics. Let us therefore go forward and drive this way, and let us do it now. That is what my group wanted to talk about, running away from short notice, from demands due without prior debate and without any kind of control that will condition us in the coming decades, because we consider that to be the bulk of this debate - and not another - of the formal, but above all of the political background.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u138	Mr. Sanz, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u139	I'm done. Despite the express procedure, this debate has made it possible to talk minimally about politics. The amendments of the Plural Left Group are on the table to defend these positions and I therefore ask you to vote in favour of them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. Mr Guillaumes has the floor for the Convergence and Unity Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u141	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this speech is going to be common for both Convergence and Democratic Union. I speak, but the merit and work is of Mr Barberà and Mr Xuclà, who have worked the law, and I think it is important to make it known. When the heat comes, the day of the marmot returns; the day of the marmot of the famous extraordinary credit and, among other things - a year was especially scandalous, had to climb here Mr Campuzano because basically the ball credit that presented us had a lot of elements of social services -, globally we are talking about the special plans of armaments with some added, indeed, about the Ebola crisis, etc. We believe that the budgetary principle has been broken, which says that all the things that a given administration has to spend must be provided for in the budget. We are talking about an extraordinary credit that is systematically approved every year; we are also talking about breaking the principle of a royal decree, because there is an urgent need when a royal decree is adopted. Here we all know what an oxymoron is, how can there be urgent need for something that is planned more than thirty years ago? Where is the urgent need? Here the two principles are broken: it is not foreseen in the budget and it is not a real decree. Finally, they present it to us as a bill and violate a third principle, absurd, I dare say because you cannot pass things that are clearly impossible to comply with. This is also a basic legislative principle. The People's Party Government has made a real decree, they've already spent the money, they've already paid and now they're making us pass a bill to get these expenses approved. We are adopting something clearly impossible to comply with because, in fact, this money has already been spent. I propose to the Members of the House an interesting political intellectual exercise: that they approve our amendments. Just for one reason, let's see what happens. If you now happen to approve our amendments, when you have already paid the suppliers that provided for the royal decree, let's see what happens. We are in a situation that I would call, without it being a metaphorical image, surrealist. This reminds me of two anecdotes. The first, at the time of the republic, in Catalonia, in the middle of an important town hall - it was not a small town hall - voted for the existence or not of God. I don't know, I personally don't know whether God exists or not, but if there is, I imagine it must have changed very little for the opinion of the above-mentioned city council. By the way, I won't tell you how the vote ended. Well, we're approving something similar, something that just can't be done. Indeed, we are in a Kafkian dynamic. Poor Mr K, when he finds himself in the absolute absurdity of Kafka Castle, where everything is bureaucracy and nothing is logical, tries to adapt his logic to the situation and that is what we have done. We have tabled a package of amendments which say what we would spend this money on - very concrete needs and nothing demagogic - if we could really have it freely, which is not the case. We apply the logic of K and you apply the logic of the castle, the logic of absurdity. [[The Lord]] And everything, for what? Because this misconception has to have a motivation. In our view, for something that we consider a very serious mistake: you want to give the impression that the defence budget has an amount that it does not actually have. They do so through several channels, from this extraordinary credit, through the famous expandable departure for missions abroad, when everyone knows positively that next year we will be in Central Africa and Lebanon. I am not saying that the game is not expandable, but could be much more realistic. No, they leave it expandable and open so that the defence budget can then be fired as with the expandable credits. And they are wrong, because this has fallen, people on the street already know that the defence budget approved by this Parliament is not the real one, they know it, but because they do not have real and reliable information about what this budget is, then it is worse, because where there is no information there is the rumor. With his technique of trying to continue saying that the Spanish state has the percentage of defense over the lowest GDP in Europe, only higher than in Luxembourg, and since everyone knows that this is not so, they invent it. I have heard real barbarities - and I have had to deny them - about what the real budget was in defense of the Spanish state. It is a mistake for everyone, but above all for you, for the People's Government, because where there is no information, there is no limit to the rumor and the rumor, gentlemen. Darkness is a bad technique. This they learned until the dictatorships. My father always told me the story that when the first attack of the Grapo was committed, in which officers of the Civil Guard were killed, the first reaction of the Francoist government was to deny it, to say that nothing had happened, that that had not existed. Forty-eight hours had passed and the rumor throughout the Spanish State was that four civilian governors had been killed. This is what happens when the information is hidden, that the rumor does much more harm. Without wanting to compare one thing with the other, the error is exactly the same, they are generating an error by hiding the information. Moreover, in the most absurd and surrealistic way possible, making us vote today a law of impossible compliance. Ladies and gentlemen, I am stuffed, fat, and the law of gravity - as high as it is on this planet - bothers me a little and I don't know if I could ask you for a proposal for a law that slightly lowers the law of gravity - since it seems that impossible things can be approved - so that people with my condition and I can go more comfortable. The logic is the same, that of the city council voting for the existence of God, that of Lord K in the castle and that of you approving one thing that if we now modify would be of absolute non-compliance. Unfortunately, surrealism is part of politics, but it should not. Shouldn't I? Well, that's it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the Socialist Group, Mr Morlan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to tackling the intervention today, the truth is that one does not know which way to go. We carry four royal decrees-laws, this royal decree-law transformed into a bill with three debates, 4.5 billion euros in extraordinary credits for the EPAs, repeated announcements and fulfillment of those announcements in the sense that both on our part and on that of other groups will be raised a remedy of unconstitutionality because this is inadmissible, comments like that this bill is unnecessary, useless and perceptive, and now, according to the spokesman of Convergence, who is Kafkian. In all the years I have been in this house, in this Parliament - and I have been looking at it for years - I have not seen a rule that has brought together such a number of qualifications as those I have heard, as well as the futility of what we are doing. It's useless. We are faced with a bill that derives from a royal decree-law, a royal decree-law that has been approved by the Government and the People's Group in this House and that is mandatory because what you are saying is: look, as I have commitments with some companies, what I do is pay through that credit the commitments I have with those companies. Once this has been done this way - I imagine that when the royal decree-law is passed it is because there is already the obligation and the need to deal with these payments -, you come and say: we are going to treat it as a bill, so I put a shield around the royal decree-law so that, in case of appeal to the Constitutional Court, it sees that the government has repented and transformed it into a rule that can be accepted and that can stop any kind of nullity of these royal decree-laws, the previous one last year and this year. So what do we do? We are looking at the amendments that we have tabled and, for my part, there would be no inconvenience in supporting those that have been tabled by other groups, but why? Why am I going to say that I agree with the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups in this House if, in the hypothetical event that they were adopted, they would be unfulfilled? Are we going to tell the companies that we are all in agreement and that they must return the money they have collected for that royal decree-law? How do you eat that? That's why I say that when you face this kind of debate you get into melancholy, because you ask yourself, what for?, where are we going?, to meet some goals, some payment commitments for some programs? We agree that the programmes should be paid for, that there should be no doubt. I also tell you something else: in two years we stopped the payment of the programs and dedicated that money to other policies that had to be carried out at the time. You are willing to pay €4.5 billion in four years for an AEP that you have reprogrammed and agreed with the industry and presented to this House as the best formula to continue building, to continue making military material, material that, by the way, we do not know what it is for. The only thing we say to you is that today we cannot correct what has been done with the adoption of this royal decree-law, since we are on a bill on which you accept amendments and, as we see, within a month or very soon there will be budgets in this House. So, do one thing, normalize the operation of these appropriations and include these resources in the budgets as one more budget item, as they do in any other chapter of the budget. Take advantage of the option that you have the budget on top of the table and include it. Clarify the budget of the Ministry of Defence, comply with the forecasts that you politically create and then see if you are compatible or not with what we can do. But in principle transparency and clarity, which is what you have been bragging about throughout the legislature, when here it is all opaque. I remember that in the first intervention of the Secretary of State in the Committee on Defence we told him that for the Socialist Group the defence policy has always been a policy of consensus, agreement and understanding, because we thought it was a State policy. You've done the opposite. You have always tried to ensure that the defence policy was yours; not that of the parties, not that of the agreement, but that of you. We have asked them to see how the special programmes were designed, to analyse them, to study them and to deepen their operation, but they did not want to do so either. We now come up with formulas that undoubtedly have nothing to do with the proper budgetary functioning of important investments that this country has to make in order to carry out its defence policy. The amendment we put to the vote does not affect the content of the bill, because all military material is related to its amounts and we assume that everyone will have collected it. We assume that the 6 million of the General Ammunition Plan - that I don't know what plan that is, that has now appeared so, soon - will also be spent. We also assume that the four million and peaks that exist for the actions in the Gómez Ulla, for the adaptation of the facilities for Ebola cases, will also be spent. So, let's put some order in the house. Let us take the budget and see what must be included in it to deal with these problems, let us see if what we are putting forward in the Ministry of Defence, the defence policy, has to do with the capabilities of our Armed Forces and the kind of defence we need. Let us see what correlation there is between the material being purchased and the defence policy being pursued, that is to say, let us see a number of aspects that you have refused to discuss throughout this process. That is why we continue to raise our amendment, which speaks more about the future, about what defence policy has to be, and we try to correct that the formula of the royal decree will continue to be maintained in the coming times. I'd like you to acknowledge that you've been wrong here, but I don't think that's happening. I would like you to accept one of these approaches, but neither will you, and I imagine that when this comes to the Senate it will also happen in the fastest way so that we don't have any problems on the way back. I would like the Group of the European People's Party once and for all to determine what its defence policy is and to do so with the rest of the groups, because we all have the right to have our defence policy contributions not to say that they are fundamental, but that they are sufficient for us in this country to have a defence policy that is in everyone's interest and not in the interests of a political party. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Morlan. In the course of fixing positions, first of all, by the Vasco PNV Group, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak briefly from the seat. The position of the Basque Nationalist Party does not differ at all from what we held last week. We are very critical of both content and form. When we talk about the form, we mean that this system of extraordinary credits cannot be raised when we are talking about such large amounts, amounts that already exist and that are known in advance and when there are some people who are pending such payments. This is not like there's suddenly been a fire and an extraordinary credit has to be adjusted, no. These were well-known items, which give rise to considerable suspicion as to how budgets should be drawn up in the Ministry of Defence. We also use this intervention to formally request the Government to state what the Ministry of Defence budget is and how much it is spent on, because when these systems and ways of cutting are used, the first thing we think about is that what we want is to hide, hide and cheat, as if there is no clean play on the matter. If there is nothing to hide, include it in the General Budgets of the State. The games are known and the orders are long overdue. As Comrade Morlan has said, if there are reprogrammings and new developments, such as ammunition - which we don't know what it is -, plant them as such, although we believe this is not the system. I'm finishing up. A Member of the People's Group, to criticize the system that the Generalitat of Catalonia uses, said: Do you have problems in health? If instead of opening embassies around the world they would use that money for health care, I'm sure they'd be better off. If we start doing that kind of demagogy, we could also do it on defense. But yesterday another Member of the People's Group came up to the rostrum and for another topic used the same metaphor and, as he used the same metaphor, I am going to ask: Do you know how many vaccines can be bought with the money of this missile worth 150 million euros and that I do not know who we are going to shoot at? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Barreiro has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, if I may, as today is the day of the patroness of the Spanish Navy, I would like to send a congratulations to all the men and women who sail and who feel protected by their patroness on this day of celebration, since for the first time in twenty years I cannot share this day with them. [[Applauds]] I send my congratulations to all the members of the Spanish Navy. Having said that, I would not like to enter the loop in which we have entered this debate, because we have entered a loop. We have made a number of assessments, we have talked again about bleaching, dangerous procedures and concealment. It has been philosophized from this rostrum, it has been talked about melancholy and ammunition, which is nothing more than buying ammunition so that the Armed Forces are up to date and can preserve national security and be on the peace missions we so much like to talk about. I say that because it is a very complicated word, but its content is very simple. I am convinced that sterile efforts lead to melancholy and I can be anything but melancholy. Therefore, I will not try to convince all of you again of the interest of this bill, because I believe it is a sterile effort and I do not want to reach melancholy. I'm gonna be pragmatic. In your speech, Mr Morlan, you started with a pragmatism that I liked very much and I said: here we are going to find the Socialist Group and the People's Group, with that pragmatism. What are we talking about? We're talking about paying. We're talking about fulfilling our obligations. We are talking about a strategic sector that is called defence and that is why there is so much controversy. Perhaps, if it weren't for the defense but otherwise we wouldn't be talking about it. As here we have talked about God, we have talked about the Republic and we have talked about everything, if I may, I will do something simpler than reading something from others. They say that the security and defence sector accounts for almost EUR 100 billion in the European Union; that in Spain there are 800 companies in the civil and military fields that charge more than EUR 10 billion, which represents a little less than 1% of GDP; that 12% of this turnover is dedicated to R & D & i; that this sector has contributed significantly to the development of the fields of naval aeronautical and communications, being one of the few areas of the Spanish industry with high technological intensity with international presence; and that an important factor of concern are the cuts that have been manifested in the budget of the Ministry of Defence in recent years for special weapons plans. [[Show a document]] This is taken from a document, called the Report on the Situation and Prospects in the Defence and Security Sector, made by UGT and Workers' Commissions. Therefore, in this cutting-edge debate we have, the People's Parliamentary Group supports this report prepared by the Workers' Committees and UGT, which ideologically are more on its side than on our side. Why? Because in the end they have had to go down to the sand and say that the defence industry is a strategic sector that employs 40,000 people in Spain, to which absolutely necessary jobs are entrusted for the modernization of our Armed Forces, for our intervention in peace missions and to maintain national security, and that we must give economic stability to their companies because they are also dedicated to R+D+i. Now we have to pay. We can discuss everything you want and I will not convince you whether it is extra-budgetary or budgetary or whether there is money laundering. I hear a lot here the word whitewash on the part of a Member who has a little fixation with her; I don't know why, some question should have to do with this whitewashing. There's nothing hidden here. If not, we would not be here, we would not be in this rostrum, things would not be processed, they would not be published in the State Official Gazette, nor would the minister be here to explain. Another thing is that you want to hold a debate about what the Armed Forces need, about what our men and women need when they are out defending national security, defending those people who travel in an inhuman way on ships that end up being their graves. That's what we're talking about. Therefore, this bill conveys safety and tranquillity to 40,000 Spanish workers, to 150 companies that invest in high technology and to hundreds of thousands of expats who cross the seas in pursuit of a new and good world and for which the sea is nevertheless its true coffin. That is what we are talking about today, and that is why I ask you to support this bill. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs Barreiro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u149	Opinion on the draft organic law regulating access to and publicity of certain information contained in judgements on tax fraud. I have the floor for the tabling of the amendments by Mr Calduch, the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u150	Our parliamentary group has from the beginning supported the processing of this organic bill, because it coincided with an approach that it has always had, and it is that tax fraud must be pursued for many reasons. Firstly, because it reduces the availability of the State's financial resources and, therefore, the capacity to meet the needs of citizens, which is the objective of tax collection. Secondly, because it is a fine demonstration of the insolidity of the defrauders with the rest of the society to which they belong, thanks to which they benefit, even to profit. The bill introduces an important element that we have always called for, namely the publicity of fraudsters, that society knows who betrays it in the fulfilment of its tax obligations and that they do so on a selfish, unilateral basis and to benefit from the unmet needs of their fellow citizens. This approach was the reason why we opposed the amendments to the whole, thinking - perhaps naively - that in the process of the draft law the People's Party and the Government would be willing to accept amendments that would improve the content of the draft organic law. That is why we are putting forward an amendment which has a lot to do with the last paragraph of Article 2(3), if I recall correctly, by virtue of which the People's Party and the Government proposed in their draft that if the defrauder with a judgment not yet final fulfilled his economic obligations, he could be exempt from being included in the publicity of the list of defrauders. That surprised us, because we thought that what was at stake was, in addition to the possible penalty for the tax offence committed, to add an additional penalty - which is not penalty - which was that society knew who was betraying it fiscally. Our amendment also did not coincide with the terms put forward by the Plural Left or the Socialist Party, because they supported whether or not the debt owed to the Treasury was satisfied, whether or not it remained as fraudsters. I have already maintained in my defence of our position against the amendments to the whole that that was so much as to encourage the defrauder, since the criminal penalty and the social penalty would have to assume whatever his conduct, to have no incentive to compensate economically for the damage he had caused to society, not to the State. That is why we have proposed an amendment in which we intend to maintain the publicity of the fraudsters, but adding that the one who compensates should be included as redeemed in his conduct of fraud for purely economic, not criminal, purposes, and that this should be recorded. The amendment has not been accepted, and I hope that the People's Party, although I have serious doubts, will be able to amend this error in the Senate process. We continue to argue the same argument, but now we add that the approach of such advertising of fraudsters is not only for reasons of social sanction, but also for reasons of commercial security. Citizens have the right to know who they are hiring with and whether their economic or commercial part of the contract is reliable or not. Then it is not only the social sanction, which in itself would already justify advertising, it is also an instrument for guaranteeing the commercial relationship. For the same reason, adding to those who have defrauded, in the list of defrauders, the element that they have fulfilled with their economic part may not compensate the part of the social sanction, but it would certainly contribute, and a great deal, to guaranteeing commercial security. Regrettably, I repeat, our amendment has not been taken into account, and that is why - I am announcing it here - our parliamentary group will abstain from this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Mr Sixto has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Today in the House there is a brief bill that has more grounds than the operative part. Even so, despite its briefness, it is a clearly improved law, and my group has therefore tabled three amendments calling for three very specific issues. Firstly, we want debtors whose names are published when they have a final judgment to be those who have caused damage to the public finances, but also those who have caused damage to social security; it is a very basic issue. Secondly, we ask that the data given on the persons in the sentences be supplemented. Thirdly, in the amendment with which we have some controversy with the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, we proposed the abolition of that kind of post-condemnation salvation or prior to the final judgment, whereby if the person paid he would be freed from seeing his name published in the Official Gazette of the State as a defrauder. My parliamentary group understands that once the act has taken place citizenship must have the right to know the people who have proceeded against the Public Finance. If public finance is compensated in the meantime, it will be a matter that can be added or stopped adding; that is secondary. In any case, what cannot be done is what the Government's bill allows, and it is that anyone who has shame and money can end up paying on time and be released from the penalty of seeing his name published in the State Official Gazette. This is something that my parliamentary group does not share. We understand that the project would have to be modified. Furthermore, as my colleague Joan Coscubiela said, in the whole debate, we understand that it is a bill that comes very late in this House. It comes only to save the electoral promises made by the President of the Government in the investiture debate and in other subsequent debates, in which the will of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government to proceed to publish the list of people who are defrauding the Treasury has been eroded, but once again we see that the concrete measures brought by the Government to this House are measures that come very late, when we are practically in the discount time of this legislature, when the Chambers should already be dissolved and the elections convened. In addition, it comes in an inappropriate way that allows those who have money to escape. That is why my group is keeping the amendments alive for the vote in the House and announcing that it will not vote in favour of this legal text if it remains with the shortcomings that we have tried to correct with our amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Picó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, although I am aware that the agenda only mentions that we should debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Public Administration on this organic bill, let me also make a few brief references to the draft law amending the General Tax Act, first by the relationship of the object and, secondly, by its parallel parliamentary procedure. We faced these two bills, the organic and the ordinary, from the need to ensure three basic principles: first, to preserve the rights of the taxpayer; secondly, to apply the principle of legal certainty in tax proceedings and, thirdly, to reduce litigation in the tax system. But I must tell you that the reform of the General Tax Act does not comply with any of these principles. It is a reform that contains measures that limit the rights of the taxpayer, recognized in the status of the taxpayer, that give power to the tax administration that from our perspective is excessively disproportionate to the detriment of the taxpayer himself and of his defence, that limit above all the rights of those taxpayers with less economic power, such as small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed workers and citizens, and all this to the detriment of legal certainty, equality and the defence of the rights of the taxpayer. I am not going to elaborate on the explanations I gave in the Commission - to which I refer - but the changes contained in the draft law amending the General Tax Act are important, such as the introduction of a new case of a conflict tax infringement in the application of the tax rule, the new regime for the imprescriptibility of the tax administration's deadlines in the verification and inspection procedure, major changes in relation to the procedures and procedures for the application of taxes in the cases of offences against the public finances or the regime for the advertising of situations of relevant non-compliance with tax obligations, which is expected to apply to debts and sanctions that have not acquired firmness on an administrative basis. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's quite exotic. These are measures that articulate an excessively discretionary power of the tax administration, which do not sufficiently guarantee the rights of taxpayers vis-à-vis public finance, especially for subjects such as small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed, etc. If it is approved as proposed by the Government - because it is going to leave just as it entered - it will create legal uncertainty and inequality in the relationship administered-Administration. Our vote in the Commission against the bill was unanimous and explicit. This important text has passed through this House as a breath, without pain or glory, but its consequences will give rise to talk. Will you return to this House after your passage through the Senate? I venture that it will not be so; it is an impression. With regard to the draft organic law, it is one of the measures most announced by the Government - especially by the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration - throughout the current legislature. In the final part of the legislature, the Government has adopted the draft law amending the Organic Law on the Judiciary, including a new article, article 235 bis. The object of the bill - and I think we can all agree - can only be the deterrent effect of tax evasion. This is the real purpose of the initiative. What amendments have we tabled and are continuing in this process? First, the domestic law should provide that it is the judge who, depending on the circumstances and the aggravating or mitigating factors assessed in each particular case, decides whether or not to publish the data of the judgment, since this amendment does not lose the purpose of exemplifying the publicity. In this respect, it would be important to make an analogy with what is required by the Rules of Procedure of the European Court. A second point we should mention is the cancellation of criminal record. The publication of convictions cannot frustrate the re-education and social reintegration of the offender provided for in article 25 of the Constitution, so that, if they are to be adopted as punishment, as appears to be the case in the draft law, the necessary measures should be put in place to ensure that, once the criminal record has been cancelled, the conviction data are also removed from the place where they were published. This is not prevented by the draft organic law. Third. According to the report of the Fiscal Council, it follows from the explanatory statement of the same bill that the purpose pursued in relation to the disclosure of certain information on convictions in tax matters must coincide and fully coincide with the purposes of the general preventive sentence. Therefore, we believe that some prevention should be carried out in the current system of penalties on the assumption of the publication of personal data. We believe that this amendment should also be adopted. I must also tell you that again in the procedure in the Commission no amendment was adopted by the People's Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, the full debate called for the adoption of these measures in both the General Tax Act and the Organic Act to be taken not only from a partisan perspective but also negotiated with a broad political consensus. I must tell you that in the parliamentary process these two laws have neither been negotiated nor agreed. It seems that the express processing of the end of the legislature now requires more than ever to pass laws only with the votes of the People's Group. That's how you chose him. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. For the defence of the amendments as well, and for the Socialist Group, Mrs Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u156	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, by the title of this organic bill that we are debating today, we could understand that anyone who is convicted of tax fraud will see his name and his published data for the knowledge of all citizens and that this could deter fraudsters. However, the title hides a second part, as has already been said here, because this law also includes the possibility that those defrauders who have sufficient resources can avoid advertising their data if they pay the damage they have caused to the Public Treasury just a few minutes before their judgment is final. When all the possibilities of appeal have already been exhausted and it is practically known that the judgment will be firm, they pay and prevent their data from being published, so you can buy the silence of the Treasury. When Minister Montoro introduced this law and the amendment of the General Tax Law he literally said that these amendments put potential defrauders and debtors in the face of the possibility that their insolidary practices will be known to all citizens, but he did not tell us that many defrauders could buy the silence of the Treasury. This possibility is included in the organic law, but the curious thing is that it was included after the Fiscal Council reported the preliminary draft; it was also hidden from the Fiscal Council. Therefore, the big corporations, the big defrauders already know that they only have to leave some reserve in their accounts, because if they are discovered and there is a firm sentence, they pay and their data is hidden. As Woody Allen said: I like to take care of my future, because that's where I'm going to spend the rest of my life. That is what the Government is doing with some citizens, not all of them, because many of them have been seized by their future, and have taken away many hopes. Mr Montoro must be told that many citizens have been cut off many rights, yes cut down; it is not authority, it is cut down, because many young people have seen that their future has changed by not being able to study for scholarship cuts. Many have seen how their salaries have been cut, how the minimum wage has been frozen for two years, something that had never been done, and others have also seen how the dependent budget has been cut, and that will particularly affect the future of many women, who are responsible for caring for the elderly. We are also seeing, for the most part, how the Government is trying to shut all these people who are being cut off from their rights so that they do not dare to protest by passing the law. While it has frustrated the future of many people, others have taken great care of the present and the future; as I have said, in the area of tax fraud, those who can buy their opacity are protecting them now and in the future. Does this law include a point that implies this? Have you not been the only ones who voted against the deletion of this possibility? So I wonder, why don't you want to meet all the defrauders? That's what they have to explain here when they come out, and leave it to you and others, as they've been doing on this subject. Why are they opposed to society knowing them? Mrs Asian is not here, but I want to tell you that I must be made of the same dough as my colleague Pedro Saura because I am going to talk about the 2012 fiscal amnesty, because I believe it is part of the government's fiscal policy and its particular way of combating tax fraud. They are resisting the publication of these names, those of the people who took up this shameful tax amnesty and who laundered their money at a modest price of 3%, and, yes, they have succeeded in favoring people very close to the People's Party. Those names - that of Bárcenas, Rodrigo Rato, etc. - have been known for reasons that are certainly alien to the government's desire, but to whom else is Mr Montoro hiding? Until those names are known, the shadow of suspicion is upon the People's Party, as they say, organic positions of the People's Party. You have suspicion about yourselves, so you have the possibility to publish them and that this suspicion, if you are not guilty, is dissuaded. Moreover, with the adoption of these laws, such as the General Tax Act, they have succeeded in ensuring that, if an unsuspecting Government once again approves a tax amnesty, their names will not be known. That has been included in the General Tax Act and only the People's Group has supported this position; all groups have voted in favour of the amendment we are putting forward to include this point: if in the future there is another tax amnesty, it should be known that their names will be known, because we will only guarantee that such a shameful action will not be repeated if the names are published, if in the future it is known that they will be published if there is something similar to a tax amnesty. If that is not done, it does not help to create fiscal awareness because citizens do not understand that while some are being persecuted others are being helped to hide. This bill and the reform of the General Tax Act were presented as the two projects that culminate in the Government's efforts to combat tax fraud. No government that wants to fight tax fraud reduces year after year the means available to the Tax Agency to fight tax fraud, because they have reduced year after year the budget of the agency and the personnel dedicated to fighting fraud. Indeed, the fight against fraud was never a priority of the People's Party government, and that is seen as looking at the General Budgets of the State. Year by year we see how the objectives of the fight against fraud are very small, they are in some cases inferior to the previous year. They collect a little more and take out the chest. But don't take too much breast, because you haven't spectacularly raised the tax fraud collection, of course not. It has risen by more than 10% in the four years; it is having a sustained rise, as it was with the Socialist Party government, so don't throw rockets. We are now reaching the end of the legislature and the electoral campaign has begun; they have to consolidate the model of country they have proposed. I will tell you one thing, we are not going to emerge strengthened from this crisis; from this crisis this country is going to get hurt because the model of country that we are going to remain is going to be more unequal, with less social rights and that does not benefit anyone, nor economic development, as was well explained here yesterday. Thanks to fiscal policy, the virtually non-existence of an industrial policy and cuts, many people will take many years to recover, while large corporations and large fortunes have been favored these years of crisis with the management that the People's Party has made of it. I'm done. This organic bill will be adopted, like so many others, with the only votes in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group. We will have to wait for the next elections in order to know the names of all the fraudsters and to have a truly progressive fiscal and tax policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. Position-fixing turn. Firstly, Mr Olabarría has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be brief for reasons of procedural economy. The subject is discussed brilliantly by the speakers who have spoken before me, but I would like to say that we agree with the substance of this organic bill because it is fundamentally endorsed by Article 120 of the Constitution, which provides for the publicity of procedural acts, jurisdictional acts, including the issuance of the ruling. Also by comparative law, by which judgements are not only handed down but also data from more entities than those that make it possible to publish this organic bill in the State Official Gazette and not only the convicted party and the personal data of the convicted prosecutor. By the way, it is not only tax fraudsters that are the subject of publication, but also of other crimes such as the lifting of property, punishable insolvency, etc., as well as the parties, the civil perpetrators, etc. This bill is also endorsed by the provisions of the Organic Law on the Judiciary, in particular by articles 230 and 235 bis, which are amended by 235 ter and 250 ter. However, it is true that some spokesmen have commented that the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court has established some reservations regarding the publication of certain data on criminal convictions when they affect the honour or privacy of convicted persons and has established the need to weigh the assets in conflict in this case, the honour of the privacy of convicted persons for a case of a fiscal offence or for any other offence, and the publicity and orality that characterizes the criminal process. From this perspective, the Constitutional Court has come to the conclusion that the right to privacy and honour are not absolute rights but are rights of legal configuration. If they are rights of legal configuration then we must apply the provisions of article 31 of the Constitution. What is the tax obligation? The tax obligation is the obligation of all citizens to contribute to the general expenses of the State and to the redistribution of wealth. From that point of view, Mr President, in a right of legal configuration this must be a hegemonic value, a value greater than others concerned as it may possibly be the right to privacy or the right to honour and, therefore, it seems reasonable to us to set up a system of publication of the personal data of those who have committed offences of tax fraud or other offences such as punishable insolvencies or the raising of property. This is foreseen - although Mr Picó has expressed some doubts about which I, with the friendship that unites us, have to disagree - in the new General Tax Law reformed in 2003, in its article 95, which also establishes the punency of certain infringements of citizens' tax obligations. Not all of them, Mr Picó is right; the big fraudsters are free, according to the requirements of article 95 of the last reform of the General Tax Act 2003. This draft organic law corrects this gap and all tax fraudsters will be subject to the publication of their personal data, with the appropriations and limitations that are established; this will result in the identification of those responsible for civil matters through a publication by edict of the court clerk where the conviction of these data has occurred. That seems enough to us, Mr. President. It also seems to us that the possibility of exonerating from this publication - the spokesman of the Socialist Group and other spokespersons has already commented - those who before they acquire firmness of the sentence repair the damage caused is at least questionable, as long as it seems that we are condoning what constitutes a breach for the honour, dignity and privacy of those who have sufficient economic capacity to be able to compensate for the fraud before the firmness of the sentence. In any case, this seems to us to be a step forward, from the perspective we have commented on. It is an element of deterrence, of prevention of tax crime. It is very difficult in a society like we live in and with existing tax fraud exchanges to oppose such a measure. Our fundamental discrepancy - and with this I conclude, Mr President - would gravitate over the nature of the measure that we are articulating. Is it a shame or isn't it a pity? The characteristics of the sentence are the limitation of rights or the impairment of citizens' rights since the search for two principles, the principle of general prevention and the principle of special prevention. It will be very difficult to convince my parliamentary group - as it has been very difficult to convince the Fiscal Council, which has ruled negatively on non-categorization as a penalty of this measure - that we are not facing a penalty and that what is intended is not to prevent the commission of this crime in particular or to prevent the commission of crimes of an economic or fiscal nature in general. It is a pity, therefore, that the retroactive application envisaged in the draft law would be very doubtful, because a penalty cannot be applied retroactively if it establishes less favourable rights for the offender. However, these reflections that we are doing are somewhat delicate, somewhat Byzantine, at the height of the legislature in which we are in. This modest advance, perhaps ill-constructed conceptually as an advance, to prevent and deter tax fraudsters from continuing to do so through the accessory penalty of publishing their personal data in the State Official Gazette, seems relevant to us. Moreover, we find it very unreasonable to oppose such a measure, which we want to believe is not just a cosmetic purpose and to wash away certain responsibilities that a particular political party in the area of tax fraud may have. It seems to us that it can be a good element in deterring those who are tempted to tax fraud. We will not always get tax fraud to disappear, but measures of this nature, Mr President, help to achieve it. Is it a shame or isn't it a pity? It's an almost Byzantine argument. It is a pity and cannot be applied retroactively. In any case, we will support the entire bill because we believe that the measure, in general terms, can be fruitful for citizens to be concerned by the requirement of article 31 of the Constitution: all must contribute, by virtue of their resources, to the burden of the State and to the redistribution of wealth by this procedure. From this perspective, this is the higher value in a right of legal configuration, as we have already commented, to which we will give relevance to support our positive vote. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mr López-Amor has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to defend this bill which is coming to the House today and is simply trying to add an article, 235 bis, to the Organic Law on the Judiciary. I will try to be brief when it comes to amending a single-article law, which is also linked to the lateness of the hour and which is the last item on the agenda. This amendment is made and is interlinked in some way with the approval of the partial amendment of the General Tax Act adopted this week by Congress, which exempts the legal reservation of tax data in the Tax Administration, in accordance with article 95 of the General Tax Act, and only with a restrictive nature to publish the lists of late persons with the Public Treasury who meet a quantitative requirement that they be late in more than EUR 1 million and that they have not been paid on a voluntary basis. The 235 bis is now added, which closes the amendments resulting from the reform of the General Tax Act and aims to combat tax fraud, deepening the transparency of the actions of public administrations by publishing convictions for tax offences. This amendment closes the tax reform initiated last year by amendments to the IRPF and company tax, VAT, excise duty and electricity tax, thus giving consistency to the law and the reform of the General Tax Act. It would make no sense to publish the list of large debtors and not to make public the list of large debtors convicted of a final sentence for offences against the public finances. We said earlier that this draft consists of an article, a transitional provision and two final provisions. There is some doctrinal sector that wonders whether the possible impact of any rights in conflict is constitutionally justified, since the publicity of the conviction could amount to a charge for the person convicted by being liable to affect fundamental rights of enhanced protection such as honour, privacy and data protection, all of which are enshrined in article 18 of our Constitution. We believe that this is not the case because this advertising fulfils the functions of information, of combating tax fraud and is a preventive and educational element aimed at promoting compliance with tax obligations. Our opinion is based on a judgment of the Supreme Court of January 2015, which states that in the interpretation of the legal rules, when they incorporate their own legislative policy options, the courts must respect, unless they include elements of unconstitutionality, the judgments that the legislator has made on the proportionality of those options. The conjugation between article 31 of the Constitution and the fundamental rights to privacy, honour and the very image of article 18, achieve in the draft law a certain balance between the proposed purpose and the measures to achieve it, between the general interest of article 31 and the private. The bill opts to give precedence to the general interest but, with some caution, it does. The first, that publicity does not fall on any criminal conviction, but only on those relating to tax fraud, the raising of property and punishable insolvency where they are detrimental to the public finances. The second precaution is established by the Constitutional Court, which requires that the transfer of personal data may take place only by the consent of the person concerned or by a specific legal provision, which reaffirms and confirms the principle of legal reservation of tax data under article 95 of the General Tax Act. This legal reservation is also enshrined in the jurisprudence... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u161	I'm sorry, Mr. Congressman. Please, it takes a certain silence to listen to the speaker. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. A legal reservation that also exists in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union when it says that the protection of personal data is not an absolute prerogative, but these limitations must be recognised by law. The publication of sentences is therefore provided for the purpose of being pursued, since only final sentences are published; in addition, only the name of the convicted person, the person responsible for the civil offence, the offence for which he is convicted and the penalty imposed on him are published. In short, it is a publication in extract of the essential data of the sentence, of the sentence, published by order of the judicial secretary, which at the end gives public faith of the contents of the sentence. In the analysis of whether advertising can harm the rights of the affected person, it is necessary to determine whether disclosure meets the requirements of truthfulness in the information, this requirement is constitutional, and public relevance of the information. As for the first, the truth would be fulfilled, since limited data extracted from a judgment is published, and this per se is a right, a formal legal truth. The Council of State in its report to the draft law says that there are no reasons to justify the need for publication, subordinating the right to privacy for general purposes, but contrary to this opinion of the Council of State is the ruling of the Constitutional Court 292/2000, which states that the publication is clear that it is not punitive, without prejudice to the recognition that it may affect the individual rights of those affected, which, however, must give way when they conflict with general interests when they have constitutional recognition. This amendment will apply to judgments issued after the entry into force of the amendment to this House, which enshrines an average retroactivity, and that the precautions imposed, the formal requirements imposed by the legislator, are complied with. It is therefore not a sanctioning measure and therefore Article 9.3 of the Constitution does not apply to it. The organic nature derives from being an exception to the rule governing the advertising of judgements, established in article 266 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and in order to conform to another organic law, namely that of Data Protection. The latter, the Organic Law on Data Protection, enshrines these as fundamental rights and includes any personal, intimate or non-personal data whose knowledge or employment by third parties may affect their rights, whether fundamental or not. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. We will all agree that public finance fraud is a real social scourge and that it is up to the Government to ensure fairness and fiscal justice. This is the only way to ensure the sustainability of public expenditure and services. And that's the only way to lower the bill to taxpayers. I will not dwell on the details of all the measures that this Government has taken to combat tax fraud, from law 7/2012, the so-called Anti-Fraud Act, the obligation to declare property abroad, the famous model 720, to the recently signed bilateral tax information exchange agreements. The results speak for themselves: 40 billion euros in what we carry from the legislature, a figure never before known; 5 billion more in six months less than in the previous legislature of socialist government, in a phase that was expansive of the economy, until the final disaster of Zapatero. By putting this data in relative terms, it is an amount that allows to finance unemployment benefits plus state spending on education, health and culture for an entire year. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group want with this law, that all citizens and businesses pay their dues and that they do so at the time they do. And those who despise the laws, those who evade the civic obligation to contribute to the support of the burdens of the State, those who laugh and take advantage of the 20 million taxpayers, who know that their actions will be publicly known and will have to assume, in addition to the economic or judicial sanction, the social and professional reproach. I'm done. In the hope that this will help them to rebuild and fulfil as the rest of the Spanish with their tax obligations, paying all of us will reduce the individual tax effort and we will have a modern State, a sustainable State and a socially advanced State. In short, as our Constitution says, a social and democratic State governed by law. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez-Amor. The vote will begin in two minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u164	We are going to start voting, which is relatively long. Therefore, I ask for attention and patience. Third Protocol to the Convention on Cooperation in Defence between the Kingdom of Spain and the United States of America of 1 December 1988 and its amendments, done at Washington on 17 June 2015. We will vote on the proposal with consideration of an amendment to the full refund submitted by the Plural Left Parliamentary Group. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 plus 2 telematics votes, 326; in favour, 17; against, 305 plus 2 telematics votes, 307; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u165	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u166	We are now going to vote as a whole on this Third Amendment Protocol to the Cooperation Convention. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 plus 2 telematics votes, 325; in favour, 302 plus 2 telematics votes, 304; against, 16; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u167	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u168	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 8/2015 of 26 June of support measures for the continuity of Barcelona as 'Mobile World Capital' for the period 2019-2023. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 plus 2 telematics votes, 320; in favour, 317 plus 2 telematics votes, 319; against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u169	It was adopted. Does any group want to be treated as a bill? The Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left. We shall put to the vote its processing as a draft law by the urgency procedure. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 plus 2 telematics votes, 319; in favour, 18; against, 298 plus 2 telematics votes, 300; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u170	It's not going to be treated as a bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u171	Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. One of the conventions is the Treaty of Marrakech, and to witness our decision, representatives of the ONCE are present, whom I greet affectionately. Can these agreements be approved by consent? [[Consent]] They are approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u172	Senate amendments to the bill amending the system of protection for children and adolescents. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to Article 1(3). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u173	They shall be adopted unanimously. Amendments to the final provision tenth, the final provision eleventh, the final provision thirteenth, the final provision fourteenth, the final provision fifteenth and the final provisions fifteenth to twenty-first. [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[before ninth]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 305 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u174	They're approved. Amendments to article 1, paragraph 7, with regard to the amendment of article 12.4 of Organic Law 1/1996. The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 300 against, 16 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u175	They're approved. Amendments to article 1, paragraph 7, with regard to the amendment of article 12.7 of Organic Law 1/1996. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 318.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u176	They shall be adopted unanimously. Amendments to article 1, paragraph 8, with regard to the amendment of article 13.1 of Organic Law 1/1996. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 306 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u177	They're approved. Amendments to Article 1(8) as regards the amendment of Article 13.5 of Organic Law 1/1996. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 208 abstentions, 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u178	They're approved. Amendments to Article 2, paragraph 11a [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 205 against, 99 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u179	They're approved. Amendments to Article 2(4). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 314 against, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u180	They're approved. Amendments to Article 3, paragraphs 4 and 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 285 against, 18 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u181	They're approved. Amendments to Article 3(8). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 285 against, 29 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u182	They're approved. Amendments to Article 3(9) and (20a) [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 288 against, 16 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u183	They're approved. Amendments to Article 3(3). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 302 against, 3 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u184	They're approved. Amendment to the fifth final provision, with regard to the deletion of paragraph 1 thereof, relating to the amendment of Article 2.4 of Law 40/2003. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 13 against, 297 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u185	It's rejected. The remainder of the amendment to the fifth final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 309 against, 4 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u186	It's approved. Amendment to the final twelfth provision, with regard to the reference to articles 42.7 and 43 bis, in the text of the additional provision added to the Criminal Procedure Act. [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 126 against, 179 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u187	It's rejected. Rest of amendment to final provision twelfth [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 305 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u188	It's approved. Amendments to the seventeenth final provision [[before eleventh]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 205 against, 11 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u189	They're approved. Rest of amendments to the bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 317 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u190	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u191	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law amending the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October for the establishment of a prior remedy of unconstitutionality for draft organic law on the status of autonomy or its modification. We started with Mr Tardà's amendments. First, amendment 13 to the proposal for an organic law reforming the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October 1979. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 44 against, 179 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u192	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 37 against, 282 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u193	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE Vasco Group'S AMENDMENTS, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 321 votes in favour, 35 against, 286.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u194	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE Plural Left'S AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 33 against, 287.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u195	They're rejected. Joint vote on the amendments tabled by the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 32 against, 286 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u196	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 284 against, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u197	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u198	Overall vote on the proposal for an organic law for having this character, for which two votes have been cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: cast, 322 plus 2 telematics votes, 324; in favour, 285 plus 2 telematics votes, 287; against, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u199	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u200	We now vote on amendments to the proposed organic law to strengthen the protection of minors and women with judicially modified capacities in the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Firstly, we voted on Amendment No 9 by Mrs Fernández Davila. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 129 against, 183 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u201	It's rejected. Mr Tardà's amendments. Firstly, Amendment 59. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 17 against, 286 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u202	It's rejected. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 26 against, 286 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u203	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE Vasco Group'S AMENDMENTS [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 136 against, 182 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u204	They're rejected. Joint vote on the amendments tabled by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 131 against, 182 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u205	They're rejected. Amendments to the Plural Left. Firstly, Amendments Nos 5 and 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 26 against, 286 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u206	They're rejected. Amendments 7 and 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 131 against, 182 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u207	They're rejected. Joint vote on the amendments tabled by the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 8 against, 295 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u208	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE Socialist Group'S AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 votes in favour, 136 against, 182 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u209	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 180 against, 140 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u210	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u211	Overall vote on the proposal for an organic law, precisely because of its organic nature. There are 2 votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 324 plus 2 telematics votes, 326; 184 plus two telematics votes, 186; 136; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u212	It's approved. - DRAFT LAW CONCERNING EXTRAORDINARY CREDITS AND A SUPPLEMENT OF IMPORTED CREDIT OF 856.440.673.35 EUROS IN THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE BUDGET, TO ACCEPT THE PAYMENT OF OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE ADMINISTRATIVE PROGRAMMES AND TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OTHER DEPARTMENTAL ACTIVITIES. [[File number 121/000159]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u213	Draft law granting extraordinary credits and a credit supplement of a certain number of euros in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, to cover the payment of obligations relating to special arms programmes and the performance of other activities of the department. We started with Mrs Fernández Davila's amendments. Firstly, Amendment No 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 41 against, 180 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u214	It's rejected. Amendment 13, by Mrs Fernández Davila. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 322 votes in favour, 18 against, 194 abstentions, 110.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u215	It's rejected. Amendment 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 23 against, 180 abstentions, 120.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u216	It's rejected. Joint vote on the amendments tabled by the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour, 32 against, 179 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u217	They're rejected. Amendments by the Group of the Plural Left. We start with Amendments 6, 7, 8 and 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 33 against, 180 abstentions, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u218	They're rejected. Amendment 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 14 against, 191 abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u219	It's rejected. Amendment 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 15 against, 177 abstentions, 123.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u220	It's rejected. Joint vote on the amendments tabled by the Catalan Parliamentary Group for Convergence and Union. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 28 against, 178 abstentions, 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u221	They're rejected. Amendment 18 by the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 132 against, 179 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u222	It's rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 180 against, 143.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u223	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u224	Draft Organic Law regulating the access and publicity of certain information contained in judgements on tax fraud. Amendments to the Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 118 against, 180 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u225	It's rejected. Amendments to the Plural Left. Firstly, Amendment 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 136 against, 178 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u226	It's rejected. Amendment 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 115 against, 201 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u227	It's rejected. Amendment 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 115 against, 180 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u228	It's rejected. Amendments of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union. Firstly, Amendment No 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour 137 against 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u229	It's rejected. Amendment 11. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 315 votes in favour, 18 against, 294 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u230	It's rejected. Amendment 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 24 against, 181 abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u231	It's rejected. Amendment 13. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 24 against, 278 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u232	It's rejected. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Firstly, Amendments Nos 6 and 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour, 114 against, 180 abstentions, 24.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u233	They're rejected. Amendments 7 and 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 votes in favour 138 against 180.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u234	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 184 against, 106 abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u235	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u236	Overall vote on the organic bill, because of its organic nature, and for which two votes have been cast by telematics. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 318 plus 2 telematics votes, 320; in favour, 180 plus 2 telematics votes, 182; against, 105; abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-07-16-CD150716.u237	It was adopted. The meeting rose. It was five and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
