ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u1	The meeting was resumed. REPORT OF THE DEFENDER OF THE PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE FOR MANAGEMENT DURING THE YEAR 2014: - REPORT OF THE PEOPLE'S DEFENSE CORRESPONDING TO THE MANAGEMENT DURING THE YEAR 2014. [[File number 260/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u2	The first item on the agenda is the report of the Ombudsman on the management carried out during 2014. I would like to say here, as President of Congress, that I congratulate and congratulate the Ombudsman and the whole body for the speed they have had in carrying out this report and that it can be discussed in depth in the Commission and seen in this House in the first quarter of the year. The Ombudsman, Mrs Soledad Becerril, has the floor to present this report.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Ombudsman's institution, I wish to express before this House the deep feeling of pain and sorrow that we all have in the institution, because of the accident that occurred last Tuesday in the French Alps, with so many victims, among them certainly fifty-one Spaniards. We greatly appreciate and recognize the work, assistance and support that the Government of Germany, the Government of France and, of course, the Government of Spain are giving. Mr President, as your honourable Member said, we are presenting this report for 2014 as quickly as possible so that your ladies and gentlemen can - they have already had the opportunity in the Commission - study it and make the assessments and assessments they have considered most timely and close in time. The objective or, rather, one of the objectives of the institution's 2014 financial year has been to achieve greater effectiveness in the fulfilment of our objectives, to have a greater capacity to respond and to respond more quickly to the complaints or demands that citizens have sent us over these months; to facilitate the citizens' approach to the Ombudsman through various means and instruments, computers and the more traditional ones as well; to do so so so that people with disabilities can also find the means with ease to approach the Ombudsman, and to achieve greater speed in the answers, both ours and those of the administrations. Transparency - you know it very well because you have participated in the elaboration and processing of the law - for us consists not only in giving the data of our activity, the salaries, the contracts, the travel, the why of the trips, what is worth maintaining the institution day by day; we already did so even before the entry into force of the Law of Transparency, we already had that page of transparency now completed, but for us transparency goes a little further and consists in giving the citizen the information that he needs or who asks us and giving it to us in a clear way, in a simple way and as quickly as possible. That is why we have introduced on our website a portal in which we can check the average times of what it takes us to respond to the citizen, but also the average times of what it takes all the administrations to respond, which takes the city council of a capital or a small municipality, which takes a council of a community or what takes a ministry of the government of the nation to respond. This will force us all because we all come out reflected with our activity and the times on the website. The number of complaints in 2014 has been almost equal - somewhat higher - to the year 2013 with 23,186 complaints. All this documentation is very sketchy, and you have seen it in the Commission where we have had the opportunity to discuss it extensively, and it basically refers to four paragraphs. In the economic field, access to minimum income is of great concern. The problems of persons with some degree of dependence in the assessment of that unit after recognition and in the provision are also of concern. There are some matters of great concern within the field of taxes - ladies and gentlemen - but there is one thing that is particularly worrying within this field that is the taxes on real property. I am sure that your ladies and gentlemen can transfer this concern to the extent that land classified as urbanizable due to crises and difficulties has not been urbanized, but it is declared and pays IBI as urbanizable, although it will not be developed now or possibly in the coming years. We have many complaints that raise this problem of what these citizens are doing paying those taxes for something that is not a reality, that has not become what they were expected to be. Your ladies and gentlemen told us in the Commission that we should strengthen our actions on our own initiative, problems which we see as being diagnosed and which encourage us to make a small report and address it to the administrations. That's how we did it. In 2013 we had 347 ex officio proceedings and in 2014 we had 487. There has been an increase in work and initiative. On what matters? In the area of education, for example, the inclusion of pupils with disabilities, an issue of great concern in schools and of great concern to families who are truly distressed by the situation of whether the child is not fully integrated into a school like all others. In the treatment of cancer diseases, you know very well the problems of medicines, and in liver diseases because it is a situation of concern and anguish for thousands and thousands of people. We have also acted in relation to ground clauses, clauses in many abusive cases because the signatory of the corresponding loan did not know what the ground clauses were and could not imagine that in two years he would get out of hand and that these clauses would cost him the loan that way. We've acted, too. The recommendations, which are a classic mode of action of the Ombudsman and very important, have also increased and have been 467 this year. The most important of these has been housing. We have managed to maintain in the tax reform the reduction coefficients - with a certain limitation, it is true -, which allow for the day a person goes to sell a house that he bought in the 1990s not to spread his updated price, because there is a reduction coefficient, as his name indicates. We have also managed - it has been during the last few days, but it was done in 2014 - to expand the Social Housing Fund so that the largest number of families can benefit. Your ladies and gentlemen are well aware of housing problems and know that, in addition to being important, the autonomous communities and the municipalities have a great deal of work to do in this respect, because the housing parks that have not been able to sell over the last few years, for the reasons we all know, can be made available to the citizens by means of moderate rents, acceptable to a large sector of the same. We have recommended this, and I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you are doing well in your autonomous communities and districts to reiterate the reasonable provision of the floors which, above all, large municipalities had planned to sell and it has not been and will not be possible to sell in the coming times. Our recommendations on child feeding, especially during the holiday and summer periods, I consider modestly that they have been interesting and important. They didn't like everyone, it's true, because some of the people responsible told us that we were discriminating. I have already said that the greatest discrimination for a child is not having a meal, as he has had the rest of the year at the school. When the holidays arrive, the schools have to organize as they see fit - we do not get involved - how they will continue to give such food to the children, whether it is in a sports camp or with other classes or complementary activities, because closing two months the school eateries for many families and children is not only a problem, but a deficiency. I told the President at the beginning of my speech that I am going to be very brief and that I am going to make just one summary, because I know that your ladies and gentlemen have a lot of work to do today, but before I finish I want to highlight two actions which, in part - I am not just saying, but in part - come from the Ombudsman and which have or may have a significant significance. I understand that one of them will be discussing it in the immediate future and I am referring to the law known as the second chance law - its name is already very indicative - which is in the process. They will remember, especially the people who are in the Joint Commission, how we discussed in 2013 a report by the Ombudsman called economic crisis and mortgage debtors. At the end of this report, a second chance law was recommended and it was called this because that name is very similar to that of other countries. This law exists in several countries of the European Union, in the vast majority, and in the United States; as your ladies and gentlemen will see in your debate, there is an absolutely new, important, unusual way, which did not exist in the modern and contemporary history of Spain, a way for those people and families who have been indebted under different circumstances - we cannot analyse them at this time - to see a light at the end, so that through a judicial or extra-judicial agreement with a mediator, also a notary way, without cost, they can arrive at a postponement, a withdrawal, to pay that debt or part of it by giving ownership or something of the small assets that they can have and be released forever from debt and can start again. It's something similar to what can happen to a company, but now it can happen to a family and a private individual. We attach great importance to this opening road, which is to be opened in the immediate future and, although it is possible that in the future this law will have to be modified and adapted to different circumstances, it is absolutely unusual and we are very happy, because, as I said at the beginning, it is a way of solution. There was no such possibility and, if it did not exist, it could lead to the submerged economy because any work a person could get in this situation would mean that his salary or income would be automatically retained and then he would have no incentive to look for a job. However, it is now going to have a way out within a reasonable time, and that seems very important to us and we are very happy about it. The second question concerns the extension of the so-called code of good practice for banking institutions - it is a code to which they voluntarily adhere, but there are all banking institutions - and it is extended on occasion - you will see at the time - of the Decree-Law of 27 February. The evictions are stopped until 2017, an absolutely fundamental issue; the ground clauses are eliminated in certain circumstances, often abusive clauses, and the negotiation of debts with banks is allowed: deadlines, cancellations, payment methods. It was a necessary enlargement and our assessment is positive. Among the studies we have carried out over this time, I will highlight two. One is related to childhood and child protection. This is not just about hearing the child, but about hearing it in family proceedings. We have done so with prosecutors and experts not only from the institution, but from outside it: psychologists and others. We have also made allegations or comments on the family-friendly project, the so-called Child Protection Act, highlighting the importance of family-friendly care. It is much better, in our view, for minors to be in family care than in a centre, even if they are well maintained and cared for. Children are much better in a home, in a family. These considerations were brought to the ministry at the time when it was drafting the Child Protection Bill. The other report or document prepared in collaboration with the autonomous defenders is the so-called: Hospital emergencies in the National Health System. We did it in 2014, although it was already completed in 2015. We find it interesting because it is a general analysis of the system, although not hospital by hospital since we do not have that capacity. Over the course of two years we have collaborated with a working group of hospitals and autonomous communities, plus autonomous defenders, and we have an opinion of how the emergencies are working, the appreciation that the Spanish have for these services and their importance. It seems to be a lie, but in 2013 there were 26 million entries for these services. This does not mean that all these people will remain in emergency rooms, but there were 26 million entries for these services. We have dealt primarily with two things: the staff who have - whether it is enough or not - and the right to privacy, privacy and information of patients who come in accompanied or not by their relatives in hospital emergencies, which falls within our competence. As you know, by recognition of these General Courts and at the request of the United Nations, we have the capacity to be a national mechanism for the prevention of torture and ill-treatment. Therefore, we frequently visit detention centres for foreigners. In Spain we visited in 2014 sixty-one centers accompanied by experts from outside the institution: psychiatrists, psychologists and forensic doctors. I myself visited twelve detention centres in Spain in 2014 and three detention centres in European Union countries - in the cities of London, Paris and Rotterdam - in order to observe their functioning and whether these visits could lead to any recommendation to improve the conditions of ours. I have sent the Minister of the Interior recommendations, above all, on the maintenance of centres and infrastructure and on how inmates can relate to the consulate, lawyers or NGOs, fundamentally Red Cross or some similar. There have been some comparisons that can be interesting and improve our centers. Also part of our ordinary work, although not as a preventive mechanism, is the visit to the temporary stay centers that are mainly in Ceuta and Melilla. They are well-maintained centres by staff, but they are overly occupied. Your ladies and gentlemen know, you have dealt with it and I am not going to go back to the matter, but you are overly busy and it is very difficult to maintain the best conditions for the daily life of these people, families and minors who are in temporary residence centres. I will now conclude, Mr President, by telling your ladies and gentlemen that we understand the difficulties that administrations, municipalities and local authorities, public bodies, councils or the government of the nation may have in responding. Sometimes they can say: Again the institution of the Ombudsman asks us to expand, again says that the information is not complete, etc. We understand the difficulties, especially because there are administrations that do not have much capacity to devote people to these things, and we understand it, but I remind you - as far as your ladies and gentlemen are concerned - that it is not the Ombudsman who complains, that it is not a thing invented or imagined by the Ombudsman, but that behind a complaint there is a person, and what we do is to transfer those circumstances to the administrations. The complaint is in the history of the peoples since ancient times, but now in some plays that are currently on display we hear the complaint again. The complaint is in Calderon, the complaint is in Shakespeare, there was already talked about the complaint; in Life is Dream says Calderon: if your complaint is reasonable, I will attend to your complaint. It is in all literature, it is not an invention of the institution of the Ombudsman. I understand the difficulties, but we cannot abandon our obligations, and we have to pass on these complaints and manage to solve these problems. Sometimes we notice that there is a distancing or a disaffection - to put it milder - with respect to the people we hold a public office, but there may be reasons for it. If the complaint exists, I repeat, we have to take care of it. I think it is better that we correct our mistakes, that we review our criteria, because this social and democratic state, as reflected in our Constitution, and which I am sure your ladies and gentlemen are proud of, is the one that allows reforms; there are other political systems that do not allow any reform. Mr President, I thank you very much for your attention to all your ladies and gentlemen and to the Commission itself, which has dealt very much with these issues, and I conclude by reminding you - I am sure you know this - of the report of the last quarter of the Bank of Spain, because it has some connotations or makes a hopeful analysis of the coming times. I do not want to end only with the complaints, I also want to say that if Spain follows a certain path - which will be discussed and constantly discussed in this house - thanks to the efforts of all the Spaniards, we can hope for a better future, a more prosperous future, a future to get out of the crisis. From the institution of the Ombudsman I hope that we can give positive answers and solve many of the problems that come to that house every day. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs Becerril, for your presence and for your words. Let us begin, in turn of fixing positions, the interventions of the groups. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mrs Pérez Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ombudsman has presented us here today the report for 2014, a report that, as has been said, is very similar quantitatively to 2013, due to the number of citizens' complaints. We particularly appreciate the improvements in transparency in the work of the institution, as well as the increase in ex officio proceedings and the number of recommendations made by the Ombudsman. It was precisely in the presentation in this House of the 2013 report that the Ombudsman told us that the report showed a part of the reality. Well, the first thing we have to say is that it is clear that the part of the reality shown in the institution's document coincides, and very much, with the reality and concerns that we have moved over the past year by the opposition parliamentary groups; a reality that differs greatly from the idyllic vision that the Government and the parliamentary group that supports it have repeatedly drawn up for us, and that shows, as we have said many times, that the policies that are being implemented, especially in the social sphere, are being devastating for the majority of the population. The 2014 report clearly distinguishes three main areas - we do not do exactly the same division as the Ombudsman did, but it is very similar - which are the ones that raise the most complaints and those that clearly reflect the situation that millions of people are suffering in the Spanish State, and on the other hand, who really favour anti-social policies in our opinion that are being carried out: the economic sphere, which highlights above all the continuing abuses of banking entities; the social sphere, with all that it involves and covers, and where a greater number of complaints are registered in this year of 2014, and the field of security and justice. Everything concerning the ministries responsible for these two fundamental policies of every rule of law presents a desolating picture. These three broad features clearly indicate the general picture, where the abuse of banking entities and their lack of respect for existing legislation effectively predominates, and even because of the fact that court rulings, such as the elimination of the ground mortgage clauses, are handed down. It is a picture where it is shown once again that the legislation drawn up and put into effect on mortgage debtors is not only insufficient, but has proved to be useless so far. It was useless at the time, as well as throughout this time, to reveal the code of good practice, which is still a declaration of intent. The Mortgage Act adopted in 2013, among other things, has not only not prevented the continued growth of the number of dwellings with which banks are left, but has also encouraged the reduction of mortgage-to-entity agreements and payments. The second chance law, in process, in which the Ombudsman herself seems to be putting a lot of hope, is also not going to be the definitive solution to a situation that keeps the rate of mortgage executions exactly the same as five years ago, almost one hundred and twenty a day, a truly shocking figure that has not yet made the Government react, eight years after the start of the crisis. Finally, everything relating to housing - the Ombudsman has expressed this in her speech, and the complaints and recommendations contained in her report - indicate that much remains to be done in this area, and that what has been done has not been done well. In the economic sphere too, although it obviously affects the social sphere - everything has its social implications - we would like to refer briefly to the abuses of the large electricity companies. It is an important chapter of the Ombudsman's report, which already occupied a large part of the previous year's report. The abuse of electricity finally translates into one - not the only - of the causes of the increase in energy poverty in the Spanish State; more than four million people in this situation.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u6	Mrs. Pérez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u7	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Also, although it is in this area, I would like to mention the recommendations and information that the Ombudsman has again been obliged to request from the Ministry on the hydraulic fracture. In the social field, I would like to mention - let me say, Mr President, because it is the largest number of complaints - the obstacles that currently exist in the legislation in force for access to minimum income, and of course the extremely vulnerable situation in which millions of children also find themselves in the Spanish State. Child nutrition and child poverty are also the subject of evaluation and criticism - although in our view very mild - by the Ombudsman; education and health, areas where complaints have increased, precisely in line with those we have made by the groups. I'm done, Mr. President. In justice and security, precisely at a time when these policies are most needed, it is where they are going further. Today, with the final adoption of the law on citizen security, we will have a new proof that it is going backwards in areas of fundamental rights, which cover the field of justice and security. We understand that much remains to be done, and we would like to agree with the Ombudsman in her assessment of the improvement of the data of the Banco de España, but the reality of the street and that which is given through complaints to the Ombudsman indicates something else very different. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pérez. Mr Tardà also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we received here today in plenary the words of the Ombudsman a few weeks after having heard the ruling of the Constitutional Court declaring unconstitutional the Sindic de Greuges, the Catalan Ombudsman, as a Catalan authority in relation to the prevention of torture, cruel and inhuman treatment, and also degrading. In our civilization, fighting for human rights is basic and fundamental. The Ombudsman has no other job than to appeal to the Constitutional Court the work of the Mayor of Greuges. Of course, a Constitutional Court made up of twelve political judges of the major political parties acting ex officio. It is an appeal brought by the Ombudsman who is lubricating the gears, since she is also an arm in this adventure of the Spanish State to re-centralize and even dynamite the composite State that was built in 1978. The Ombudsman's attitude responds, despite her good words, to a Spanish vision, centralist, homogenizing, and wants to turn the Sindic de Greuges into a vase. He wants to turn the Synod of Greuges into a folkloric institution with no capacity - see - to defend human rights. It actually rains over wet. The Ombudsman - I repeat - is one more piece. Remember also what the Ombudsman did, who dynamite, as a nationalist hooligan, the Statute of Autonomy, presenting him to another Constitutional Court formed by so many other paid judges to blow up the Second Generation Statute of Autonomy, which was the one that initiated the new statutes of autonomy that had to modernize the Spanish State, and even stupid ones believed it. If the Ombudsman really ensured the rights of everyone, including the citizens of Catalonia, she would comply with the Statute of Autonomy, which has been in force for nine years and which should have been used to sign a reciprocity agreement with regard to the proceedings with the Greuges Synod, but she did not feel like it, and the facts speak for themselves. While the Catalan Authority for the Prevention of Torture has carried out 88 visits to centres where people are held, i.e. places that could be used to violate rights, the Ombudsman has made 16 visits to these centres in Catalonia and 52 in the Spanish State as a whole. Then, not signing an agreement allowing, for example, the Greuges Syndic to visit the detention centre for foreigners in Barcelona, which is what needs to be done, goes against the Convention against Torture. You, Ombudswoman of the People, have appealed against the Catalan law regulating the Synod of Greuges, but - how curious! - you have not appealed against the Spanish law that buried universal jurisdiction. Look, you have little concern that the murderers are unpunished, that the fascists, the hierarchs of Francoism, who are still here, do not have to account for their abuses, or everything that had formed this will of Spanish society to advance in the persecution of the genocidals throughout the world, that here was buried with the new law that ended with universal jurisdiction, and that you did not appeal, as we do not believe that you are going to appeal the new Penal Code or the Mordaza Law. In conclusion, we have read the Ombudsman's report carefully, and look at what we have seen. It turns out that the most that comes about respect for the Catalan language is to remind the General Directorate of Police in the Valencia Country... [[Rumors]] Valencia because I say so; when you speak, say Valencian Community. Let each one say what he likes, but I say Pays Valencia. [[One Member: Very well.-Applause.]] He reminded him that the law must be complied with and that documentation in Catalan and Spanish must be made available to the public in the police stations. In contrast, the Catalan municipalities urge them, although not their legal obligation, to label traffic and transit signals in Spanish. Of Mrs Becerril's three hundred ex officio proceedings, none - I repeat, none - has anything to do with the systematic violations of language rights by officials of the General Administration of the State, police and civilian guards at airports, police stations and roads. Mrs Becerril - I don't know where you are - in Catalan we say...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u10	You must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u11	...you see his DNA, you see his paw. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. The Ombudsman is not present in the Chamber. It is in the rostrums, but not in the Chamber, as is the custom from the beginning. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Olabarría has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ombudsman, I again welcome your presence in this House. I would like to take these first words to congratulate Ararteko, whose term of office ends today. It's been brilliant management. I think you have had a relevant level of collaboration. Mr Lamarca has done well, he has exercised the functions of counterpower or alternatives to power that correspond to an institution such as you represent from a neutral perspective, neutrality that with all honesty I have to tell you that it is not always perceived in your memories or in some more valuable aspects of your memories, although it must be acknowledged that you are making an effort to address the most relevant problems and the most visible democratic deficits of the Spanish State. Here we find ourselves with several problems. It is the first memory in which you do not make manifestly ideological reflections. I remember that in the memoir that was presented in 2013 you glossed over the Parot doctrine or defended its maintenance, even having already fallen back from the Court of Strasbourg declaring it illegal. He also reflected on how the Parot doctrine should be applied. These are not functions for which you are legitimized. On the other hand, we have also not heard him say anything about what is happening with ombudsmen of the people of the autonomous communities. Here is a recurring problem at the connection points. We do not know how far they go and what the powers of the defenders of the autonomous people and those of the Ombudsman of the Spanish State should be. There is no kind of point of connection, as there is with the laws, which determines the scope for which they are entitled to act. But without prejudice to this, what is happening is something more serious. Autonomous ombudsmen are disappearing. I have not heard any reflection on whether you are concerned or correct about this action emanating from the Law on the Reform of Public Administrations, in the final analysis of the CORA's reflections to avoid duplication, and it seems that all the duplications that remain, according to what is being empirically observed, are of an autonomous nature. There is no duplicity on the state level that seems to be left. There are five defenders of the people who have disappeared or are in the trance of disappearing, and they are barely kept - I don't know if this situation is going to be maintained - those who have the greatest historical projection, the greatest historical tradition, even greater than the institution you represent, such as the Ararteko, the Syndic of Greuges and the Justice of Aragon. Every time a reform linked to the well-deserved CORA is carried out or committed, the autonomous state structure is bitten. Then we will have the opportunity to gloss over, in a paradigmatic example, the Civil Protection Act, the amendments of which are to be discussed at a later stage. I believe that you have a moral and ethical obligation, I do not know whether legal or statutory, to reflect on this which is taking place in the context of the autonomous fact, of the autonomous processes, and not only of the elimination of institutions and structures in their entirety of the autonomous sphere, but of the degradation of competences through different procedures that arise, either from the usurpation of the legislative function committed in this legislature by the abuse of the real decree-law as a natural and almost unique way of legislative action, or from the perspective that each rule, every structural reform that is subject to approval, involves a rescue and reduction of autonomous competences, even those already transferred, not of the pending transfers. From that perspective we would like some reflection - these would be ideological reflections, but for which you are legitimized, as long as they refer to the configuration of the constitutional bloc - that we always miss in your reports. In this report, which we are examining today, we see a more diffused ideological profile. You cannot dispense with your ideology, and your team is plural as well, as there are people who have different political sensibilities. I imagine that they will act reasonably collegiately and will be able to make elements of synthesis, but I do not just understand - because you never mention it, and you have already appeared on several occasions in this House - what are the areas of action of the autonomous ombudsmen and what are the areas of the ombudsmen's ombudsmen you represent. You cannot reasonably intervene in matters which are located in the autonomic sphere, but you could intervene in matters of supraautonomic, state-level. But this is not so, there is a kind of permanent interconnection and penetration into improper or alien skills. When you intervene or demand from some autonomous communities your intervention should perhaps be referred back to the Ombudsman of that autonomous community, if it exists, and vice versa, when it is a problem of a supraautonomous nature obviously the defenders of the people, when they are denounced this situation, should in turn be referred back to you. These points of connection, this sort of ordination between the competences of each other, are in some way disturbing the functioning of these institutions, which are so important at a time when the system of fundamental rights and public freedoms, enshrined in the Spanish Constitution itself, is seriously declining, law after law. Today we are going to have three opportunities to analyse how it is declining, through the debates of the amendments that come from the Senate of two important rules: a part of the Criminal Code relating to terrorist offences, which has been broken down - eccentricity wherever it is - from the Criminal Code itself, and the law on citizen security, on which I am very surprised that you have not been able to perceive that the law on citizen security, through an over-dimension of the concept of public order and an absolute denaturization of the concept of citizen security, is limiting the essential content of the practice of all the fundamental rights enshrined between articles 14 to 29 of the Constitution. As for the issues that you are dealing with through recommendations your performance may be weak or labile - if I may express it and I do not want to be offensive. Even the administration of justice is more belligerent than the institution you represent in certain areas that you have cited. With regard to the ground clauses and to the preferentialists already in the Administration of Justice 90 % of the claims referred to the prefernts are being declared frauds or scams, criminal figures with criminal relevance and which also deserve not only the reparation of those affected by these financial machinations, but that even those sanctions or penalties which may correspond to real criminal injustices are being imposed; criminal injustices which are also - as in so many other things in this context - subject to far more belligerent action than theirs by the Administration of Justice. In fact, a curious phenomenon is taking place. The Administration of Justice, which has never enjoyed in the Spanish State the statistics of a particularly relevant appreciation by citizens, is becoming the true structure of counterpower through the emergence of causes of corruption and the denunciation of mortgage law, where you have made an almost apologetic mention of the law of the second chance. It's just that you have to go further and you know it, because this does not help to solve a problem that is located in the Mortgage Law and the Civil Code. The fact that it has already been declared - in this case by the Court of Luxembourg, the Court of the European Union - illegal is the maintenance of the mortgage debtors of the debt alive for them, concerning or compromising all their present or future assets. Reflections of this nature and how to correct them is certainly what citizens expect from a much more belligerent action than that which you are glossing, and only by making apologetic reflections of some legal instruments that do not even come to what the judgment of the Court of Luxembourg on Spanish mortgage law has decided: that it is the illegal practice of this unlimited conversion, of this conversion into adaptations to the debt of citizens who have had the misfortune of not being able to face a debt of a mortgage character. It has also referred to emergency services and the over-dimension of hospital emergency services. How will hospital emergency services not be oversized when, after recent reforms of our health system, for foreigners in an irregular situation is the only procedure for access to public health? Of course, but denounce the cause, do not denounce the effect or the inadequacy of the means in the hospital system. He complained that it was for this reason, that it was the only system of access for foreigners in an irregular situation to access health care. It comes from something dramatic. A country with dignity, which meets the requirements of article 9 of the Constitution and the guarantee and driving effect of public institutions in order to eliminate inequality among citizens, must at least end - if it is considered democratic and dignified - hunger, particularly hunger in the child sphere. I am pleased with your invocations regarding the need to keep the school dining rooms open through any procedures so that at least one child can have a decent or reasonable meal a day. But look at the drama of the situation that comes from what we're talking about. He also spoke of non-compliance with the Unit Act. Here there are recurring appeals about the non-compliance with the Unit Act, which has not yet been able to even qualify as dependent, and therefore collectors of the subjective rights provided for in this Act, called citizenship - a concept which does not exist in law but which has caused grace, so far - or those who had to have been qualified as dependent in the first year after the adoption of the Act. Not all of these are qualified. Be more belligerent, please, in the attention of these problems. We are talking as an institution of counterpower of those issues that the administrations, all of them, are mismanaging or in which they act insufficiently, and as are so many holes and democratic deficits, in addition to increasing law after law or royal decree-law after royal decree-law, you are being imposed a greater belligerence in your actions. I'm moving on to cancer problems and liver problems. He is certainly referring to hepatitis C and the lack of treatment agreement for patients who are dying every day. You have to be more energetic and demand not only through recommendations, you have to be in a standing position of struggle to combat something that is causing what is scratching in institutional murder, because the lack of budget availability to care for these patients is causing many to die day after day. In short, this report is better than last year's report, I have to recognise it, and it is not denatured by reflections of an ideological nature that do not correspond or for which you lack legitimacy. However, it lacks what has been lacking from previous ones: endurance. Pay heed to Calderon, whom you have quoted: if the complaints are reasonable, address them, and not only that, do everything possible to remove the problems, usually normative and of budget and economic availability, to solve them. These are very serious problems; all democratic states have deficits, but the Spanish state is beginning to have deficits, but real black holes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the sake of Progress Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you also to Mrs Becerril for the exhibition she has made of the replacement memory. I also agree that it is a memory that has interesting improvements and I would like to thank you for the quality of the statistical information you transmit, which allows you to get a fairly accurate picture of the substantive issues of the country's situation. In this sense, I believe that it is not criticism that we should now address your institution but the general functioning of the institutions, because what this report reveals is what I think can be described as a general failure of the public administrations and the institutions in Spain, also of the legislation that is being done in this House and of the government action, and it also points to a problem that usually appears here on a recurrent basis but to which we may not give enough political importance in Spain, and I am referring to the tremendous legal insecurity of the prolificity and often lack of the legal rules, which are also superabundant, which we have in Spain and which undoubtedly create in the citizens a feeling of defencelessness completely certain. We live in a country where access to rights that are recognized in legislation - including basic rights - is hampered by a whole series of rules that in many cases end up being complained to the Ombudsman, after a whole process that has failed to resolve the issues. For example, it seems to me quite serious - and it speaks of a widespread failure, of an institutional failure - that the complaints from the point of view of the issues that motivate them have basically been the same since 2012, at least since the first report I had the opportunity to discuss here. In other words, problems arising from housing policy, especially legislation on wrong housing, evictions and all the problems associated with that legislation, which is very harmful and very contrary to the legitimate interests and sometimes to the basic rights of persons affected by debt problems, continue to arise. That is to say, the failure - we have also said here, I agree with that reflection, I share it 100% - of all the legislation, or rather of non-legislative legislation, of the obstacles and of the conversion of what had to be clear, binding and binding laws for all those interested in simple recommendations, such as the code of good practice adopted here for banking. Another example of the country's underlying problems is complaints about the implementation of the Unit Act. It is a fairly clear example of why we have a State that in some things like this would almost deserve to be called a failed State. In other words, a good Unit Law is made, but it is not funded because the responsibility for its implementation lies largely with the Autonomous Communities and the situation of the different Autonomous Communities from the financial point of view and from their political decisions is most heterogeneous, in practice and in truth the Unit Law becomes a cause of frustration, because in many Autonomous Communities it simply does not apply or apply in such a scarred and delayed way that many of the people who aspire to benefit from that Law actually do not receive the minimal attention that the Unit Law proposes as a virtually basic right for the persons concerned. Another issue that also focuses on citizens' complaints as their report conveys to us is poverty. I am glad that you have insisted so much on this issue in your presentation because the problem is extremely serious. It is extremely serious that Spain is a country that has risen to the highest levels of poverty within the European Union, above other countries - and I always say this, I think we must remember this because it indicates the terrible policy of managing the crisis - that is to say that we have more child poverty than countries that have had to be rescued whole, not only its banking system as the case of Spain, which was also rescued, but also as Greece or Portugal, indicates an absence of social policy, a failure of the institutions and a missharing of competences truly tragic on many occasions for the people who suffer it and of course for the future of the country, as we have also said many times. Here I have not heard at least express denials from the Government regarding the existence of the problem of poverty, but only an absolutely insufficient and ineffective response. But there are autonomous communities in Spain where in their parliamentary assemblies it is denied from the autonomous governments that there are problems of poverty, child malnutrition, the impossibility of basic energy consumption, etc., and that is serious. It is serious in a country where, in fact, a certain social segment has suffered from impoverishment and what is answered is that its problems are imaginary. Of course, they end up using the Ombudsman. And here there is another paradox that says a lot about our state's failures. As I have seen in the report, most of the complaints to the National Ombudsman are the result of misdeeds by local authorities. It is normal, because the problems on which these autonomous administrations are competent are precisely those that cause the complaints, that is, education, dependence, health, housing, etc. But that's finally what happens, people are citizens of a country where the autonomous administrations have competences that are well exercised, poorly assumed or poorly financed, and in the end the pagan, who is frustrated in his legitimate aspirations to live in a decent state, I say no more in a Nordic welfare state, but in a decent state, finds that no one gives him any answer and this ends here. In fact, it is also curious something that is recurrent in all the complaints that you include in your memory: the impossibility of the administrations of Justice to comply with the speed and legal certainty required of citizens' claims. But this is not because the Administration of Justice simply works badly, it is because it has been split into seventeen different systems and there is not a real judicial system that works properly in Spain, people find that the last remedy it has, which is justice, is abandoned and has no means; that is, the courts are under-funded, the Administration of Justice does not have the means to deal with the flood of claims that fall, for example, by the Mortgage Law and others of that style. And that is a very serious defence of the citizens, because we are once again talking about a special service such as the Administration of Justice but which is also a power of the State. Then we have a power of the State abandoned by a decision that I do not think is innocent but that I believe it is deliberate, that it is a policy of weakening the administration of justice precisely to strengthen the power of the executives to make decisions that in practice cannot be corrected by the counterpowers and counterweights of a well-organized state of law. This is what is happening constantly, this is what we see in the background of the memory, an abandoned Justice Administration that cannot therefore perform its functions and that was further worsened in its capacity to respond by the crazy judicial fees that still circulate and run around and that have been reduced but not completely eliminated because they still affect nothing less than SMEs, to set an example. Finally, I wanted to tell the Ombudsman, and with this I am finishing, that I also felt, like some other speakers, that it exaggerated her satisfaction or joy at the second chance law that the Government has announced. That law was presented in this rostrum in March 2012, and is now for three years. The Government rejected that first proposal that we made and that of all the groups that then presented similar or different things but always in the same spirit, and the one that the Government has put forward is absolutely unsatisfactory. I do not think it is the job of the Ombudsman's institution to be glad that the Government finally recognizes that it has done absolutely nothing and that it is now going to do something. I think it has to be somewhat more critical than just a transmission mechanism and that it distributes parabens or recommendations or complaints to the different institutions. There is a very serious substantive problem in Spain and it is seen in all these reports of these years. The crisis has sacrificed certain particularly vulnerable people, who have paid the full cost of the crisis in a disproportionate way, and the institutions have not been able to make a fairer distribution as their obligation is because they exist for that purpose. The result is that the Ombudsman, who is an institution that should act much more punctually and much more aimed at correcting specific failures or abuses or motivated complaints, becomes a sort of great showcase of what is the underlying problem, which is the failure of democratic institutions in Spain. We have a poor-quality democracy, which has created extremely serious problems in things as sensitive and basic as the growth of child poverty, with the resources to ensure that poverty does not exist. I also miss, for example, that you are more critical and therefore better convey the concerns and problems of the citizenry in the face of the spread of cases of corruption and the lack of response of the municipalities to many absolutely reasoned requests, which indicates a problem of scale, which you also point out. It is something truly incredible: it is recognized that the municipalities in Spain are mostly too small to respond even to the complaints of the neighbors. Well, something has to be done. I'm not saying you do it, it's our job, but I want to put it on the table. It is recognized that there are a number of autonomous powers which the autonomous administrations do not exercise or misexercise. It is recognized that there is a permanent source of complaints on three or four issues that this House throughout this legislature, because of how the parliamentary majority has acted, has been unable to resolve when it could have resolved them. These are the fundamental problems, and the fundamental problems are not a series of complaints that would undoubtedly exist in any other case and in any other country, it is that there are systematic causes that have to do with the poor quality of our democracy that motivate what are no longer mere complaints, but real protests for defencelessness, vulnerability and abandonment of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, I have the floor, Mrs García Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ombudsperson, once again we are discussing a debate which, as we have said on other occasions, should be broader. The institution of the Ombudsman must be a resource for citizens, and it must therefore be given the importance that we believe it must have. We said last year, Mrs Becerril, ladies and gentlemen, that citizenship was disenchanted with the institutions and maintaining almost ostracism debates like this does not help to improve the vision that citizens have in this regard. Nor does it help very much to be very complacent with some of the issues brought to this House as the second chance law that you have pointed out, because you will see that the second chance law - and I invite you to come to the debate - is sometimes more a second penalty law. Mrs Ombudsperson, we must generally acknowledge to you and your team the work that has been done to bring this up to date and the efforts you have made in transparency, but yesterday, as you see today, that the economic situation in the country is affecting some of the complaints and complaints that come to your office. And yesterday as today we say again that poverty in our country, the two million boys and girls living below the threshold of poverty, are because their families lack resources and are on the verge of social exclusion. They are not, Madam Ombudsman, just because of economic issues, there is a very important part, and this too has been pointed out to you, of political responsibility. You have pointed out right now and in your report issues such as minimum income, dependence and compliance with both, but I point out one more, what the City of Madrid has done with housing of the Municipal Housing Company by transferring them to another private company, which is raising the rents and disposing the people of the municipalities of Madrid of those housing that were at the time public. Please also pick it up, Mrs. Ombudsperson. Mrs Ombudsperson, ladies and gentlemen, amending Article 135 of the Constitution meant for workers in this country the loss of labour and social rights. Conditioning the welfare state and the rights conquered with so much effort to pay a debt gestated in speculation is simply shameful. The two majority groups in this House were responsible for putting our education, health or dependence at the feet of the vultures that overfly the markets. Social cuts, unfair court fees, evictions, co-sponsors, and so on, which you have in your report as a concern and complaint of citizens, are more than mere concerns and much more than mere complaints. Mrs Becerril, you tell us that you are concerned about the situation of hospital emergencies, that perhaps a new medical specialty would be needed in this regard. We tell you that more than a medical specialty, what is absolutely urgent and necessary is to have more human and technical resources, that is, more investment and less cuts. The political decisions that have been made in the areas of health, co-payments, privatization of services, scarce or no public investment have resulted in a decline in the valuation of a system that was among the best in the world. Continuing in this field, we once again share the concern shown by the institution about the situation of patients affected by hepatitis C. I want to tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen: these sick people have not been protesting for three days, following the new medicines; these sick people have been protesting about the situation they have been in for many years and they have not been given the case that fortunately is now being done to them. From here we show once again our solidarity with the relatives and patients of hepatitis C, who after the elections - they have had that decency - have again closed down demanding their right to live in dignity. By the way, Mrs Becerril, yesterday in the Commission again rejected an initiative aimed at measures which would speed up the process of equipping the patients with the medicine they are claiming and which they have already indicated. He is concerned, and my group is also concerned, about the violence against children, both within and outside the family sphere. In fact, you had the opportunity to demonstrate it in your appearance at the subcommittee created for that purpose. You will be with my group when we say that there is another kind of equally harmful violence on which we have power of action and which is directly related to the situations that children live when they are violently evicted from their homes, harassed in schools or unable to continue their studies due to economic problems, which is also today's reality, Mrs Becerril. Mrs Becerril, you again tell us about the malnutrition problems of boys and girls. We agree on the search for solutions and even that the actions that have been carried out in the various territories can be satisfactory, but the structural problems that cause this situation remain and, worse, they grow. The latest data provided by Caritas and Intermón Oxfam confirms this. Mrs Defensora, energy poverty is a reality that you point out as a serious problem for many families; so are we. My group has expressed this here, from this rostrum, on numerous occasions and the majority group, the group that supports the Government and the Government itself have been responsible for rejecting it over and over again. Energy poverty is a reality that families suffer and the Government shows that it has no intention of resolving it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Becerril, the situation in Melilla is still worrying, also in Ceuta. Hot returns are realities that don't like inside or outside our borders. The objectives of the millennium, those for which we all bet, are now diluted sugar: diluted in the cuts, diluted in the actions they are carrying out, diluted in the lack of resources for cooperation, diluted in policies that could be other if there had been political will to be others. Mrs Defensora, students continue to have problems with the collection of scholarships, have real difficulties in coping with the rise in fees and suffer from the experiments carried out by the Ministry of Education. The last, the modification of degrees and master's degrees, has brought thousands of students, trade unions and teachers to the streets, whom from here we want to show our solidarity because we believe, Mrs Defensora, that experiments in any field must be carried out with gas, but not with human beings. I conclude once again with an issue on which you place a great deal of emphasis on all your reports: the victims of terrorism. Mrs Becerril, the first thing we want to express is respect for the judiciary and its decisions, which we do not like on numerous occasions, but which we must abide by because they are decisions of the judiciary. It does not seem appropriate to us to want to intervene in them through mechanisms and subterfuges which, however much you like, are not the right ones in a rule of law. Secondly, there are victims of other kinds of abominable violence, such as macho violence, for example, who do not have the same treatment by the administrations. And last but not least for us, there are the victims of the Franco dictatorship, those thousands of men and women who remain in the coves without family members knowing where they are and receiving any help in locating them. They are citizens who have been the victims of a crime, that of enforced disappearance, which continues to be committed until the bodies appear, an offence whose investigation should be addressed by the State on its own initiative. I would urge you, Mrs Ombudsperson, to promote precisely that you address it. It is something that does not happen in any country, it is something incomprehensible in a country that claims to be fully democratic in the twenty-first century. I finish - now I do - by asking for your intervention, as you have done in the prisons, to avoid repressive acts on the streets that remind us of other times and you only need to be in front of a television to check what I am telling you. We are in a rule of law and as such we must act. The gag laws, of which we are now going to talk, are not the best reflection of a rule of law. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to say a few words about your appointment to Calderon: the complaint is reasonable. The complaints we have just made here are reasonable; collect them, Mrs Ombudsperson. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs García Álvarez. For the Catalan Group, I have the floor, Mrs Sayós. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, I would like to express our deepest condolences to the families who lost some of their members in the air accident that happened yesterday. Sometimes we give a lot of value to certain things and instead we can't control life. And I would also like to express our strongest rejection of the authors of these very offensive, intolerable and outrageous tweets, without any respect for the victims and their families, whose content I do not have enough courage to reproduce. Therefore, we want to denounce them and we hope that the State Security Forces and Corpses along with the bodies of the Mossos d 'Esquadra de Catalunya will act forcefully against these people. Inciting hatred and xenophobia are crimes on good grounds. None of this is freedom of expression, as it implies dialogue and no content of these tweets can be considered freedom of expression. Having said that, Mrs Ombudsperson, thank you and your team for your work. Ladies and gentlemen, zero-zero. At first sight it might seem like the result of a football match, but it's not. I'll tell you why. Firstly, since it could not be otherwise with regard to the institution, I must congratulate the Ombudsman and her entire team for the work they have done and for the work they do. I thanked him in the Committee and I also thank him in plenary. I am also grateful that some of the requests I made to you last year have been collected this year. I must urge the Ombudsman that the institution she represents should be as independent and even-handed as possible. Therefore, from Convergence i Unió we reiterate and urge once again the creation of a protocol that avoids the arbitrariness and subjectivity of the institution in carrying out its actions. We expressed it last year and insisted once again this year. As far as the 2014 budget is concerned, the Commission has already explained why the outstanding payments are in the implementation of the budget, but I would like to make a suggestion in chapter one. It is as follows: to develop the expression "other personal". I know, we know and you explained today that you have launched a new service to consult the state of the complaints made by citizens, even with access for people with special abilities. I welcome it - I hope the government would do the same - but in view of this beginning towards transparency we think that it should specify the term "other personal". In 2014, the Ombudsman opened 23,964 cases. From these data we must point out that the ex officio action dossiers have increased slightly and we welcome it, but you cannot relax, Ombudsperson. Of the 23,186 complaint files only 1,813 come from Catalonia. We assume that this is due to the good work of the Greuges Syndic of Catalonia and, for that reason, I must thank you for your work and for your common coordination. I would like to point out that during 2014 80 cases have been opened ex officio to the Ministry of the Interior and this is no less. One more year we see that the General Administration of the State has received more recommendations than the autonomous administrations, as well as more suggestions and reminders of legal duties. By way of example, I would like to highlight among the latter a reminder of 28 January 2014 addressed to the Ministry of Justice's Secretariat of State on the duty of the public authorities to assist the Ombudsman in his actions as a matter of priority and as a matter of urgency. Another example: the territorial management of the Segovia Catastro, belonging to the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, is one of the hindering administrations for the institution of the Ombudsman. It's important to point that out. When the Government presents its reforms for the public administrations and the proposals of the report prepared by the CORA it is good to know that more than half of all complaints received by the Ombudsman correspond to issues of its own administration. It's the first zero. With regard to the administration of justice, we continue to have the problem of judicial fees during 2014 for which citizens have filed complaints. The Ombudsman submitted recommendations to the Ministry of Justice that have not yet been implemented. This parliamentary group fully shares the Ombudsman's view that judicial fees are extraordinarily high and may lead to a violation of article 24 of the Spanish Constitution. In my intervention last year, I have already highlighted the issues of form and substance to blame the imposition of these judicial fees. Another aspect to be taken into account is the delays in judicial proceedings, usually due to structural problems, which involve citizens' discomfort and a bad image of justice. This is reflected in the Ombudsman's report. Finally, with regard to the right of the child to be heard, the Ministry of Justice was recommended that European legislation be adapted to United Nations positions in this area, but the Government has not yet reacted. On the other hand, there has been a lot of talk about prisons, so I am not going to repeat myself. With regard to citizenship and public security, we would like to highlight the numerous complaints that affect the mechanisms of voting by mail for persons residing abroad, both CERA and CER, negatively affecting their right to vote, i.e. not being able to vote. We believe that the Government must act and make use of new technologies not only to request the vote but also to exercise it. With regard to scholarships, it was known that the new system of management, granting and granting of scholarships approved by the Government, consisting of the division of aid into a fixed amount and a variable amount, would cause many problems, especially with regard to the variable amount. Well, it has, and many complaints have been made because this system creates great uncertainty for students about the total amount they are going to receive as help. As far as health is concerned, according to the Ombudsman's report, complaints have been received from citizens regarding the refusal of authorization for the special use of drugs in research, the emergence or non-approval of new medicines, especially for the treatment of serious or rare diseases, and the difficulty of accessing state-of-the-art drugs for the cure of hepatitis C, but in particular the repeated complaints of Royal Decree 16/2012 for the inequalities it causes. This aspect has already been addressed by Convergence and Union on multiple occasions, it is a continuous demand. We therefore agree with the Ombudsman's report and ask the Government to comply with its recommendations. There are also many complaints - it could not be otherwise - about co-payment. Convergència i Unió has already said for a long time that in the co-sponsorship system more sections should be created, and this is reflected in the Ombudsman's own report. We reiterate our willingness to call on the Ombudsman to give special protection to the most vulnerable persons, such as persons with disabilities; to see if once and for all the Government definitively abandons the wrong speech when it says that persons with disabilities are free of co-optation, because they are not. With regard to social policy, the Ombudsman has already made a good statement today regarding the protection of minors, especially in minors who are malnourished, and this situation is not small. That is why Convergence i Unió insists so much that the Government also takes action in this regard, but would like to highlight two more aspects: first, that the biggest shortcomings observed - the report says - are delays in the processing of revisions and the lack of accessibility of persons with special capacities and, second, it is clear and evident that the Government does not comply with the Unit Act. What the Government does is to transfer all economic pressure to the autonomous communities without taking charge of its share of funding, and this is not to be received because it is the dependent citizen who is harmed. I cannot overlook in any way an unfair ruling of the Constitutional Court of 5 March 2015. In 2010, the previous Ombudsman, Mr Enrique Múgica, filed an appeal for unconstitutionality because he considered that the Law of the Parliament of Catalonia, which regulates the institution of the Synod of Greuges, invaded the competences of the State. In particular, and in the first place, the powers of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment assigned to the Registrar of Greuges are not within his competence. In 2006, Spain corrected the optional protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, and as the Constitutional Court considers that the protocol is part of the field of international relations, whose competence is State, it therefore considers that it is the competence of the institution of the Ombudsman and not of the Syndic of Greuges. The sentence limits the functions of the Greuges Syndic to being able to conduct interviews or to require the opinion of the doctor; and I add: it would be missing more! That is the misermal interpretation that the Constitutional Court makes with a restrictive reading of article 149.1.3 of the Constitution, and obvious what is actually established in article 17 of the Protocol itself and its spirit, and more so when it speaks of delegation to decentralized entities. Secondly, the territorial competence of the Greuges syndic with regard to the powers of the Ombudsman. The Constitutional Court merely invokes the judgment given in respect of the Catalonian Autonomy Statute of 2010, but adds that, once Article 78 of the Statute has been clarified, the supervision of the Greuges Syndic on the local administration and the bodies associated with it is not exclusive, so it does not exclude that of the Ombudsman, since it is competent to supervise any public administration, whether state, autonomous or local. Curiously, in no case does the Constitutional Court's ruling speak of establishing agreements between the Greuges Syndic and the Ombudsman, nor does it speak of the principle of subsidiarity between the Greuges Syndic and the Ombudsman, nor of the principle of proximity in favour of the Greuges Syndic, nor does it invoke the principle of autonomy. Curious. But it is more curious that the Constitutional Court, on its third basis, appeals to the principle of voluntarity in reference to the inclusion of the principle of cooperation between article 78 of the Statute and...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u20	Mrs. Sayos, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u21	... Article 78 of the Law on the Synod of Greuges - I conclude - so that the provision of cooperation in the statute or in the autonomous norms does not impose anything on the State, which can act with complete freedom. Again, legal uncertainty. Well, the second zero goes to the previous Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court: zero-zero. I regret this ruling, but I hope that the Ombudsman will find cooperation agreements with the Greuges Syndic, now appealing to the principle of voluntarity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Outós. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Ángeles Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: First of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman and her entire team for their great work and for the report they have presented this year. Every claim seeks answer and redress, and the report one more year tells us that, in general, the administrations have been diligent in providing that information that the Ombudsman is asking for. Another thing is that many of the complaints find answers that do not satisfy or notice, and it is about these that we would like to draw attention to, starting with matters related to the Administration of Justice. The report notes, one more year, a large number of complaints relating to family matters. The Ombudsman's recommendation to carry out an individualized review of the system of visits to each child affected when there is a charge of gender-based violence must be addressed with care to avoid traumatic situations. The boys and girls, the 40 boys and girls who were killed in these circumstances by their parents between 2008 and 2013 and the United Nations denunciation of Spain in the case of Angela González have highlighted the need to specialise those who make decisions that affect the life and development of these children. In most of these murders, sexist prejudices about paternity were those that made possible inadequate responses that led to fatal outcomes, erroneous administration responses that discourage all victims and, of course, society as a whole. The description of the material situation of the courts in the report is alarming. Inadequate means lead to delays and irrationality in the statements, and result in dysfunctions that call into question the effectiveness of justice, without, as was foreseeable, the collection of fees having any positive impact on the reduction of material deficits and overcrowding, which entails a lack of security in court cases. The reading of the report therefore makes it clear that the situation of justice has worsened. With regard to the recommendations and complaints in this area, we have failed to see that the report does not link delays in procedures with the fact that for every 100,000 inhabitants we have half the number of judges that the countries in our environment have. In the complaint catalogue, ladies and gentlemen, they are very worrying. Reference has been made to issues related to hepatitis C patients; however, denying medical treatment for hepatitis C patients in prison is a health concern. The Government must comply with the Ombudsman's recommendation that they should be treated first, because the lives of those prisoners depended on that decision; and then that the competition between the prison administration and the health administration should be discussed. One of the most worrisome aspects is the reference to what the report has referred to as the lack of guarantees of punitive resolutions by Government delegations. By the way, the Madrid delegation, with Mrs Cifuentes at its head, deserves the prize for the repression of protests through administrative sanctions. What are the answers to these recommendations from the report to ensure that freedom of expression and the right of assembly are respected? Disparagement, with a reform that encloses freedoms and hinders the intervention of judges to give procedural guarantees. There is not a single group in this House, with the exception of the People's Group, which tolerates the embolism of article 21 of the Constitution, which implies that the offence of what are now criminal offences is an administrative offence. Those broad powers given to the delegations of the Government to limit the exercise of fundamental rights will be the cause of many complaints in the forthcoming reports, unless all the groups in this House, as soon as possible, comply with our commitment to repeal. The institution's efforts to improve the conditions of Spanish prisoners abroad, as well as its involvement in keeping abreast of the situation in the border perimeter of Ceuta and Melilla, where every day we see interventions that violate human rights, lack of diligence that prevents the right of legal aid and management of the border perimeter with actions of dubious legality that also contravene the international conventions signed by Spain. These violations require more than the Ombudsman's attention. They demand that the Government act at the border, respecting and guaranteeing human rights. Why does the report contain complaints similar to those of previous years about detention centres for foreigners? Simply because the supposed improvements that came from the hand of the new operating regulations, according to the report, do not apply. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, just fifteen days ago, the Supreme Court annulled four articles of the regulation regulating the functioning of the CIEs; the first two because they contradict European Directive 2008/115; Article 21.3 because it is contrary to the Aliens Act, which does not allow for further detention for any of the cases provided for in the same expulsion file; and, finally, Article 55.2, in its first paragraph, which allowed personal records, even with an integral nude, because it exceeds the Aliens Act itself and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, it is necessary to respond and rethink the feasibility of this model of centers seeking regulations of coexistence that incorporates social intervention. We have been particularly concerned about scholarship-related complaints. The scholarships should lead the Government to rethink - as the report recommends - the current two-time payment system. The system is a challenge to those who do not have the resources, even if they have the capacity to do so. We are talking about families forced to apply for loans; or worse, forced to make the terrible decision that their children should drop out of school because the income from scholarships to families who cannot access credit is carried out late, well advanced course. In the field of education, therefore, the complaints related to these issues show that we have bad laws and bad procedures, which not only generate injustice and inequality, but are also wasting talent. It's been spoken in the addiction rostrum. In the area of dependency, the obstacles are in fact a framework that is becoming a real ploy to delay payments and prevent definitive access to benefits, together with the failure to pay minimum income for inclusion and the lack of attention to child malnutrition, which is embarrassing. Administrations - look carefully, ladies and gentlemen - such as those of the Community of Madrid, Valencia and Murcia have been pointed out in the report by concentrating most complaints about the non-payment of benefits called for precisely to prevent the installation of pockets of misery in this country. It would not be more incisive if the report were to state that, despite the fact that the dismantling of social intervention is not coupled with timely or palliative assistance, these end up being necessary and therefore it is especially unfair for us to have administrations unable to manage and provide sufficient credit because this lack of provision punishes those who are most vulnerable. Another reason for justified complaints has been the back-up toll, the replacement of meters, the electrical billing and the hydraulic fracture, which is causing concern in many people in Spain. It is to be congratulated on the strength of the report to ensure that solar energy is not subject to taxation, and the Government should give it a political response and not resort to persuasion to keep a tax on electricity consumption alive, which is not good for citizens, is not good for the economy, is not good for employment, and of course is not good for the environment. Simply, it's not good. One more year of access to decent housing stands out throughout the report and it is necessary to thank the full information. Two particularly serious situations are reported: the sale of public-owned rental housing of the City Council and the Community of Madrid to speculative funds and the usual and single family housing embargoes for small debts to Social Security. These practices aggravate the personal and social situation for access to housing because, in the first case, they involve a misappropriation of public revenues, as the Socialist Party of Madrid has already announced, and, in the second, because an embargo on small debts is not provided when it generates a need that is obliged to meet through the social services system. In conclusion, it is not really a matter of this report, the one known as the Second Chance Decree-Law, to which all the speakers have referred so far, because the Ombudsman and the People's Group in the last Commission celebrated - and today it has again - a rule of dubious effectiveness and, therefore, I insist, even if it is not the reason for the analysis of this report, I would like to highlight some issues. The development of the decree has made clear that there is no second chance, does not prevent the loss of housing, does not increase the unimpeded minimums at present, does not include guarantors, there is no payment, there is no elimination of the ground clauses - 99% of those affected will have to continue the judicial procedures -, does not correct the excessive and cumulative requirements of the code of good practice and the majority of the self-employed who have incurred debts with Social Security and the Tax Agency will not be able to benefit...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u23	Mrs. Alvarez, you have to finish. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: I'm finishing up, President. They will not be able to benefit by being both exempt from removals and moratoriums. Therefore, perhaps there has been a hasty assessment and the supposed opportunity does not prevent the Ombudsman's institution from accumulating in future reports complaints of political failure. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. This report contains vital recommendations for the rule of law that have been rejected by the Government. We believe that it is necessary to give greater satisfaction to the recommendations of the report and we want to ask the Ombudsman to continue to be incisive in the dissection of the functioning of public services and policies, to be strong in defending the interests of citizens, to refuse to seek excuses and to play with autonomy and authority the role that citizens demand from her. He had the full support of the Socialist Group in that task. Finally, you have made literary references. I'm going to make you a philosophical: every cry is a complaint, the cry predicts the complaint, but every complaint is also an accusation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Alvarez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bertomeu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ombudsperson, as I have already stated in the Commission on the 10th of this day, from the People's Parliamentary Group we congratulate you and your second and first deputies, as well as the rest of the staff, officials and staff of the institution, on the fulfilment of their commitment to taking office with the presentation, within the first quarter of the year, of the report for the previous financial year. We appreciate very positively the changes regarding how to address administrations and citizens, achieving greater proximity and effectiveness. The launch of the transparency portal has made it easier to know all the activities carried out by the Ombudsman's institution. The fact that for the first time it is possible to know the average time when the Ombudsman responds to administrations and citizens demonstrates the interest in resolving problems within the prescribed time frame to which the citizen may be entitled. The complaints lodged during the past year are practically the same as in 2013. What is significant is the number of ex officio proceedings, with an increase of 41%, which together with the recommendations, which also increase by 97.4%, justifies the effort made by the Ombudsman's institution. This effort has in no way been due to an increase in the budget, but quite the contrary. During his term of office the budget of the Ombudsman's institution has fallen to about 8%, a fall that, as you tell us, corresponds to the effort that has also been made by all citizens and most public administrations because of the circumstances that we have had to suffer in recent years. According to the report, 217 of its recommendations have been accepted, another 166 are already pending and the rest, i.e. 84, have been rejected. Among the accepted recommendations are those relating to victims of terrorism or tax reform with regard to the elimination of the tax on the increase in the value of urban land for paid cases. It expresses its repeated recommendation for the establishment of an independent insolvency proceeding or the Second Opportunity Act. As I said to you in the Commission on the 10th, the second chance decree was passed in this House, which will improve the quality of life of families. This has been possible because the reforms carried out over the past three years have allowed the current situation to improve and we can bring this growth to the families. On the other hand, the People's Parliamentary Group is in favour of the procedure as a second chance bill, so that the mistakes of the past will not be repeated. This law will have a triple effect. One, the consolidation of the economy. It offers a second opportunity not only to citizens, but also to companies hit by their debts, and extends social protection to the most vulnerable groups. It is also important to extend the code of good practice, which has allowed 12,000 restructurings - cancel 12,000 launches - and 3,500 payments so far, so that the number of family units that can benefit is almost doubled. It is also the suspension of evictions on homes, the non-launch in principle until 2017. We are also informed in your report that recommendations have been accepted on initiatives to raise awareness in international forums of the harm caused by terrorism. As you say, Mrs Ombudsperson, we cannot and must not forget the terrorist acts committed by the ETA organisation. Various measures have been taken in this legislature in recognition and support of the victims of terrorism. In order to preserve the memory of the victims and build the story of the truth, the Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism has been established in Vitoria, which has a national character and whose objectives are to preserve and disseminate the democratic and ethical values embodied in the victims, to build memory, to delegitimize terrorism and to raise awareness among the population as a whole for the defence of freedom, human rights and against terrorism. As always the People's Parliamentary Group has been, is and will always be with the victims, who constitute for this party a genuine ethical and moral reference in the struggle for freedom and democracy. Complaints include those related to delay in the area of justice. As you stated, the workload and the tools available to the Administration of Justice could be the possible causes. The current electronic systems used do not facilitate the work, but the opposite. For this reason, the Ministry of Justice has presented the timetable of measures with which it intends to reach the goal of a paperless justice in January 2016. The introduction of new technologies in the Administration of Justice will put in place a battery of measures that could lead to the definitive modernisation of justice; that in early 2016 the role of the courts will disappear will be a step that will become a reality, establishing the obligation of electronic communication between legal groups and courts. Another measure that will be introduced in the coming months will be the new electronic judicial headquarters, through which any person involved in a judicial process will be able to know how their proceedings go with the justice system. We are also informed in your report by complaints from 857 citizens, who express to the Ombudsman their dissatisfaction with specific judicial decisions. The complaints raise concerns, in this case, about the family processes in which children are affected and which have led the Ombudsman to decide to draw up the study called Listening and the best interests of the child. As I have already indicated, the General Courts are in the process of processing the draft Organic Law amending the system for the protection of children and adolescents. This reform, which includes recommendations from the Ombudsman, amends up to twelve laws, including the Organic Law 1/1996 of 15 January on the legal protection of minors. One of the main objectives is to have a new framework of rights and duties and special attention to the most vulnerable children. For the first time, the duties of minors in the family, school and social spheres are laid down. They are no longer regarded as passive subjects and provide greater protection for the most vulnerable children, who are expressly recognized as having the right to health, education and social services. The laws also affect the greater participation of minors, through the right to be heard and heard. Another objective is to define in a state norm situations of risk and helplessness, to expedite the procedures of reception and adoption. The reforms will give priority to solutions to families, as opposed to residential ones. Three types of reception are established: emergency, temporary and permanent. On the other hand, protection centres for children with behavioural problems are regulated for the first time. Open adoption is another novelty, so that the child in adoption has the opportunity to maintain some kind of contact with members of his or her biological family. The third objective is to strengthen the fight against violence against children, as for the first time children are recognized as victims of gender-based violence. Protection against crimes such as sexual abuse will be strengthened. Of the recommendations made to the Ministry of Health regarding the contribution of users to the co-payment of medicines, the Ministry, as well as eliminating co-payments of transport and others, will require the autonomous communities to abolish the co-payment of hospitals. In this way, patients will not be required to contribute anything for the medicines given to them in hospitals. One of the priorities of the People's Party has been to ensure that Spanish people have access to the best possible health care. Thanks to the reforms, approximately one million unemployed people and their families for the first time do not pay for their medicines. With reference to hepatitis C, Spain becomes the first country in the world to guarantee treatment with new medicines and will benefit around 52,000 patients. In social services, the ministry will strengthen comprehensive support for the family and paternity. To this end, measures such as the tax reform have already entered into force, the aid of which has already claimed over 27,000 families during the first fifteen days of operation. As you know, the General State Budgets for 2015 multiply the support for families with children in poverty. However, we are aware that further efforts must be made to help these families. We must remember that Spain was the OECD country in which inequality grew the most between 2007 and 2011, as did poverty that grew at a faster rate than in the European Union. The risk of poverty and social exclusion increased by 13% in the last socialist legislature, five times more than in the European Union, just as child poverty grew at this time three times faster than in the European Union. These data, according to the National Institute of Statistics, show that the two most important indicators used in Europe to measure social inequality - the 80/20 ratio and the Gini coefficient - are reduced for the first time in the last four years. The Government has made structural reforms to ensure greater social protection and quality public services. The main commitment to this goal has been employment, as a fundamental policy against poverty. The priority is the fight against child poverty. In 2014, a €17.4 million fund was allocated to the Autonomous Communities to combat child poverty. We appreciate your statements regarding the correct conduct of security forces and officials in detention centres, which comply with the law and human rights conventions, and share your view that there are accusations against detention centres and officials responding to strategies of the terrorist gang ETA. Another issue raised by us is benefits for dependents, a very important issue on which the Government has made the system viable through a series of reforms. There are currently more beneficiaries entitled to benefits, fewer waiting lists and more professional services. With regard to gender-based violence, regarding visits to minors of parents accused of ill-treatment, they know that the Government is making no effort in this regard. One example of this is in the 2015 budgets, with an increase of 6.86% in the amount intended to combat gender-based violence. The amount earmarked for awareness-raising is multiplied by three, and for the first time a sum of EUR 1 million is created for personalised plans. On the other hand, the amendment to the draft Organic Law of the Criminal Code, which will be discussed today in this Chamber and which will enter into force shortly, will improve the criminal response which expressly provides for the possibility that probation may be used to prevent danger in crimes against gender-based violence, while at the same time improving the regulation of the crime of trafficking in human beings and of forced prostitution. Madam Ombudsman, thank you for your 2014 report. As the People's Parliamentary Group always appreciates very positively, we will take into account its recommendations and hope that we will continue with this intense and positive work for the citizens. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Bertomeu. Before I enter the next item on the agenda and since there are votes on organic laws, I shall indicate as an hour before which there will be no votes at five o'clock in the afternoon; perhaps it will be later, but not before five o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u27	Royal Decree-Law 2/2015 of 6 March 2015 adopting urgent measures to repair the damage caused by floods and other effects of storms of rain, snow and wind that occurred in the months of January, February and March 2015. This royal decree-law will be presented, therefore the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all, and in so far as I was unable to be here in the House at the sitting on Tuesday afternoon because I was presiding over the crisis room set up at El Prat airport in Barcelona on the occasion of the tragic aviation accident, which we all know, to join publicly from the rostrum the expression of solidarity and pain expressed by the President of Congress, as well as the minute of silence that the House kept. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to the House on behalf of the Government Royal Decree-Law 2/2015 of 6 March, which takes urgent measures to repair the damage caused by the floods and other effects of rain, snow and wind storms that occurred in January, February and March this year, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution. This royal decree-law came into force, as your lordships know, on 7 March, once published in the State Official Gazette. Also, as you know, during the last days of January, much of the month of February and this month of March, successive rain, snow and adverse weather events of wind and sea have affected virtually all of the national territory and have caused, among other effects, flooding and flooding in different watersheds, determining the declaration of alert status at different levels and the activation of the corresponding territorial or special civil protection plans in various autonomous communities. Special mention is made of the floods caused by the growth of the Ebro River during the month of February, the first days of this month of March and also today - yesterday, as we know - which, as I say to you, are particularly affecting the province of Zaragoza, reaching unknown levels in the last twenty years and which are estimated to have drowned about 20,000 hectares of land. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the river we are talking about, in particular the Ebro River, more than 500 people have been mobilized to ensure the safety of the population. Specifically, on Monday, 2 March, the number of persons mobilized was 1,163, 450 of them were members of the Emergency Military Unit; 350 transport vehicles, including helicopters, airships, buses, ambulances, etc. were also used. Yesterday, as you know in the province of Zaragoza, the high flow of the Huerva River has forced the preventive evacuation of 75 people from a residence in Santa Fe and about 100 homes in Cadrete. I would like to highlight the effects that the Government's reaction has been proportionate and appropriate to the situation created, being, as it cannot otherwise be, in permanent coordination with the autonomous communities concerned, with their authorities and in particular with those of the Autonomous Community of Aragon, given the seriousness - I insist - of the floods caused by the growth of the Ebro River, in particular waters up from Zaragoza to the town of Novillas, waters down to Pina de Ebro and the reservoir of Mequinenza. Already on 11 February the Vice-President of the Government, all the government delegates of the Autonomous Communities and the Autonomous Cities of Ceuta and Melilla and I had a meeting in Zaragoza. We have already been talking about this issue - I repeat, 11 February - and the Vice-President of the Government announced publicly on that occasion since Zaragoza that the Government was studying the promulgation of a royal decree-law, which I am currently presenting to your ladies and gentlemen for the constitutionally envisaged procedure of eventual validation. Later, when these important avenues of the Ebro River occurred at the end of February and the first days of this month, as well as damage in other autonomous communities - in Navarre, etc. - but we all know that the most outstanding ones, that the most affected area was the province of Zaragoza and in particular the areas I have commented on from the river; then, on the same 1st March, the Secretary of State for the Environment was there. I was also in Zaragoza on 2 March and had the opportunity to meet with the authorities and fly over the whole area to get a better idea of the impact of those avenues, both upstream of Zaragoza and downstream. We were flying over the town of Pina de Ebro because at that time it was being assessed whether or not the evacuation of the population was necessary, although finally fortunately it was not necessary. On 3 March, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Environment was also visiting the affected areas and meeting with the various officials. Finally, as honourable Members know, the President of Government on the same day as the Council of Ministers approved this Royal Decree-Law on 6 March, was in Aragon with the President of the Government of the Autonomous Community of Aragon and with other authorities to draw up the Royal Decree-Law, having first-hand knowledge of developments. Of course, it has always been in constant contact with the authorities of the Government of Aragon and with the ministers directly concerned and involved, who had also travelled there. I repeat, on the very day that the royal decree-law was passed the president came, as you know, to Aragon, to Zaragoza. I would like to stress that the approval of the Council of Ministers on 6 March of this royal decree-law was made even when it was not yet possible, for obvious reasons, to carry out a definitive estimate of the damage, given the situation in which some of the affected areas were and are still in place. The Council of Ministers approved it precisely in view of the reality of the consequences and the need to restore the normal functioning of public services as soon as possible. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the justification and necessity of adopting this royal decree-law, the natural disasters to which I have referred have significantly altered the daily lives of citizens and the normal functioning of communications, while at the same time causing great damage to public-owned infrastructure and also to many private-owned infrastructure. Therefore, as I said to you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and by virtue of the authorization provided for in Article 86 of the Constitution, the Council of Ministers has adopted this royal decree-law in order to opt for a set of measures aimed at alleviating the damage caused to persons and property, both of public - I repeat - and private - ownership. [[dwellings, garages, commercial and industrial installations and agricultural holdings]] At the time of this royal decree-law the weather forecasts did not rule out that in subsequent weeks similar episodes could be repeated, as unfortunately is being shown. Precisely because of this provision, it is envisaged that the Government may, by royal decree, extend the application of the measures contained in this royal decree-law to other damages that may occur until 31 May of this year, as far as the temporal scope of application of this royal decree-law is concerned. With regard to the geographical scope of application and in the same line mentioned above, given the general allocation of the territory, a closed list of autonomous communities has not been determined, with reference to the Royal Decree-Law, for the determination of the municipal terms and population units to which these measures will specifically apply, to a subsequent order of the Ministry of the Interior. According to the royal decree-law, that ministerial law will be promulgated - we are preparing it as is evident - from March 31st. As for the material content of the rule that I am presenting to you, although it follows the structure of previous ones approved in this same legislature, the Royal Decree-Law 2/2014 of 21 February and the Royal Decree-Law 25/2012 of 7 September, the present Royal Decree-Law includes some new ones that aim to address the singularities, the specificities of emergencies, as I will briefly point out below and in a very particular way - I insist, not exclusive nor exclusive, but in a particular way, as is evident - that affect the province of Zaragoza because of the growth of the Ebro River. As regards the corresponding aid, if we look at it by ministries, starting with the ordinary aid provided by the Ministry of the Interior and regulated by Royal Decree 307/2005, I must distinguish between two types of direct economic aid. First of all, there are those for personal damage, for material damage to homes and goods, on farms and on industrial, commercial, maritime-fishery, tourist and other services. I would like to highlight a special novelty which contains this royal decree-law with respect to previous ones, and which is in our view, as well as that of the Council of Ministers, very useful for the purpose intended. According to the Ministry of the Interior with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment, the usual reference to the term agricultural establishments as recipients of aid for damage to agricultural holdings has been replaced. This concept of agricultural holdings, as opposed to agricultural establishments, is much broader and, together with the amendments included in Article 2.4 of the Royal Decree-Law, will allow the aid to be extended to essential elements of non-insurable farming, such as the private roads of farms or the loss of arable land that would have been dragged by water, as it literally quotes - you know - the rule that I am presenting to you for eventual validation. It should also be noted that, as in previous royal decrees-laws approved in this legislature, aid to commercial establishments for the payment of up to 7 % of the franchise applicable by the Insurance Compensation Consortium up to a maximum amount of EUR 8,000, which has proved to be effective in similar previous situations. In fact, the only precedent was in 2014, when seventy-seven grants were granted for an amount of approximately EUR 220,000, whereas on previous occasions and with direct application of the Royal Decree of Ordinary Aid, 307/2005, of the Ministry of the Interior, without the modifications of these Royal Decree-Laws, the aid granted to establishments had been very limited precisely because it did not contain this measure that we have now included; I am referring to the aid for the payment of up to 7% of that franchise applied by the Insurance Compensation Consortium. A second novelty of this rule with regard to precedents is that aid to natural or legal persons who have made personal and property benefits, in addition to local corporations, for expenses incurred in dealing with such emergency situations, as is the case that normally affects municipalities and municipalities, is specifically covered by this rule. [[removal of snow or mud, drainage of water or removal of dead animals]] They will be governed by Royal Decree 307/2005 of 18 March, but the requirements of Royal Decree 307/2005 are made more flexible in the following ways in order to make them more accessible. The deadline for submitting applications for any of these aids is extended from one month to two months. All those who consider themselves legitimate to ask for them, compared to the ordinary month, will have by virtue of this royal decree-law a period of two months. On the other hand, the procedure for granting aid requested by the Ministry of the Interior reduces the time limit to be determined from the six months provided for on a regular basis to three months. The time limit for submitting applications for aid is therefore doubled and the time limit for resolving the relevant procedures is reduced by half. The accreditation of ownership of damaged property is also made more flexible, and any document that can prove the ownership of the damaged property is admitted as a means of proof of ownership of real property. All such aid shall be paid from the appropriations provided for in the existing budget of the Ministry of the Interior in the Law on General Budgets of the State under the heading of the Directorate-General for Civil Protection and Emergencies. From January to 25 of this month, that is to say, until yesterday, in all the autonomous communities affected by the various causes to which he previously referred, a total of nine hundred and forty-five petitions have been submitted for processing in the corresponding delegations and sub-delegations of the Government, in the specific area of the competences of the Ministry of the Interior, which are the ones I have pointed out so far. [[rains, snow, winds, storms, avenues, etc.]] If we break them down by autonomous communities, the petitions submitted until yesterday are as follows: ninety-three in Aragon, six hundred and thirty-seven in Castile and León, twenty in Cantabria, fifty-two in the Basque Country, ten in Navarre, one hundred and twelve in La Rioja, eighteen in Andalusia, one in Asturias, one in Catalonia and one in Illes Balears. Ladies and gentlemen, at first glance it may seem that the number of applications submitted to date is not very high, but let me tell you that this should not be missed for the following reasons. Firstly, we have not yet been able to access all the areas affected by the floods - I recalled the situation we experienced yesterday - and, consequently, the damage can be assessed; any assessment so far is merely provisional. Secondly, as I have told you, the deadline for submitting applications established by this royal decree-law is two months from its entry into force. Therefore, as it entered into force on 7 March, there is time until 7 May; I have spoken of those presented until yesterday, 25 March. Finally, as I say to you, the order of the Ministry of the Interior which implements this royal decree-law is still to be approved - it is established that it must be after 31 March, and this will be done immediately - by making concrete the population centres and municipalities to which these aids particularly affect. In addition to the direct economic aid to which I have just briefly referred, the Royal Decree-Law provides for other measures of a very different nature, but all with the common objective - I insist - of trying to restore normality by alleviating the damage caused by these situations. The Directorate-General for Traffic provides for exemption from the fees applicable to the processing of vehicle casualties and the issuing of duplicates of driving or driving licences when requested as a result of such accidents. With regard to other ministries, in particular the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment, in particular because of the characteristics of the damage caused in Aragon, special measures have also been introduced. Thus, this ministry, the Magrama, provides aid for damage caused in agricultural and livestock productions with the following novelty that I want to highlight to your lordships. Additional aid - emphasis on additional aid - is granted to holders of agricultural and livestock holdings who, having in force insurance policies covered by the combined agricultural insurance scheme, have suffered losses exceeding 30 % of their production. In particular, Article 9 of the Royal Decree-Law develops what I have just succinctly expressed to you. Another very special novelty contained in this area in the Royal Decree-Law is that the Council of Ministers may, on a case-by-case basis, and by the corresponding agreement of the Council of Ministers, grant exemption from the environmental impact assessment of works for the repair or rehabilitation of infrastructure, equipment or facilities subject to such assessment, in accordance with Law 21/2013 of 9 December of the Environmental Assessment. The other aids, ladies and gentlemen, which are often included in this type of royal decree-laws and also, as is evident in the present, are those relating to damage to the hydraulic public domain, to the maritime-terrestrial public domain and to rural infrastructure of general use, such as natural roads and green roads. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment is empowered to declare a special area of action for the restoration of the maritime-terrestrial, hydraulic and general-purpose infrastructure public domain and to declare the emergency of the works to be carried out by that department the aforementioned areas in the royal decree-law. This, of course, is going to speed up much, of course, so that the resulting work can be done to alleviate the damage and, as I say, restore normality as soon as possible. With regard to the activities of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration in particular, I would point out that, with regard to local infrastructure, up to 50 per cent of its cost of repair is provided for; all repairs or restitution of all types of infrastructure, equipment, facilities and services of municipal ownership, including the ownership of the municipalities, the districts and the road network of provincial and outlying municipalities, the island councils - island councils, we are thinking logically of the Balearic Islands - as well as of the uniprovincial autonomous communities, can be carried out by the emergency procedure. The specification of these local territorial authorities has been at the express request of the Autonomous Communities concerned, because they have a special institutional presence in their territory. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, as is normal, tax benefits are also provided for on various taxes, in particular on property tax, with exemption in the quotas for 2015 for housing, industrial and commercial establishments, agricultural holdings, etc. The tax on economic activities shall be reduced in proportion to the time of cessation of activity for those industries, commercial establishments, etc. which have been damaged and which have had to be relocated or temporarily closed down. I insist that this refers to the tax on economic activities. With regard to the income tax on natural persons, aid for personal damage is totally exempt from it. Finally, measures are also envisaged affecting the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, which are, in particular, labour and social security measures. Collective redundancies, suspensions of contracts and reductions in working hours which have a direct effect on damage caused by catastrophic events, as well as loss of activity in the maritime-fishery, hospitality and accommodation sectors, shall be considered as force majeure, so that the employer is exempted from paying social security contributions for the duration of the suspension of the contract on the grounds of such events, and in the event of termination of the contract, redundancies shall be paid by the Guarantee Fund. Companies and self-employed persons shall also obtain a one-year moratorium on the payment of social security contributions for the three calendar months immediately preceding the production of the claim. With regard to the economic impact, which is tentatively estimated, as is evident, the first estimates of total damage to both public and private property are EUR 106 million, of which approximately 100 would correspond to public property and the rest to private property. With regard to public-owned goods - I insist that on a provisional basis - approximately 70% of the shares to be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment and 30% of the remaining shares to be carried out by the Ministry of Development. The remaining approximately €6 million that would affect public-private property would be managed - I insist, always on a provisional basis - by the Ministry of the Interior in the field of its competences and would correspond to damage to housing and goods - for the moment we estimate them about half a million euros -, commercial establishments - a provisional estimate about a million euros - and emergency expenses of local corporations -3,5 million euros is the provisional estimate -. All this is without prejudice to the fact that there is a relaxation of the usual requirements for its regular processing, to which I have already referred: twice as much time to submit requests and half as much time to resolve procedures, therefore to respond to those requests. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that an interministerial commission is being set up - as, on the other hand, it is customary and necessary - to monitor and implement all the measures contained in this royal decree-law. This inter-ministerial commission shall prepare a report on the activities carried out in implementation of all the forecasts contained in this standard by 30 October of this year. In conclusion, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law reflects the Government's unequivocal desire to respond as urgently as possible to the damage caused at the moment between January, February and March, and to those which could eventually occur until 31 May by the aforementioned natural disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what I have just summarised, I request the support of this House for the validation of this Royal Decree-Law 2/2015 within the framework of Article 86 of the Constitution. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u29	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Barkos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will start by saying that frankly in a legislature where the Government has undertaken so many times that the royal decree occupies the space that corresponds to the bill, when we find ourselves with a decree that it is, because it effectively meets the emergency requirement and in this case the fact that it decrees the aid for the damage caused by these temporary ones, it is necessary or seems to me to be a law to greet it and, in this sense, we announce that we will also do so from the support of my formation, Geroa Bai, to this royal decree, in order to deal with the urgency that the circumstance requires. I must also point out that there are two characteristics that I wanted to stress in particular in the three brief minutes that we have. On the one hand, the fact that it will effectively address not only the damage that has occurred until 31 March, but also looks beyond, what can and can occur until next May, until 31 May. In this respect, I would like to point out that if we thought that the 100 million euros with which the royal decree has been endowed in a global way - we understand the moment at which we are - were already scarce, we understand that the figure will have to be revised in the event that these circumstances actually occur in the coming months, and I hope not. He said that it is a small figure, and I would like to point out that the Government of Navarre - and in this regard I suppose it will be other autonomous and municipal bodies that need to be involved in these aids in the same way - announced that it will complete, in the case of the community, with 10 million euros the aid that comes from the royal decree. To the extent that this is a real multi-ministerial decree I address you, although I understand that it is not within your competence. It was pointed out by the Government of Navarre - and in this regard we would like to add to that request - that supplementary aid does not constitute a deficit, do not constitute a deficit in the case of external, autonomous or municipal accounts. I understand that it would be a complementary measure to this real decree that we consider important. I would like to recall that in Navarre - not only because of the growth of the Ebro, but also because of the Arga - significant damage has been caused; 50 municipalities, 9,000 hectares have been affected, and in two thirds of this amount we are talking about cultivation land. Minister, you have used this presentation - and I am finishing, Madam President - to make a detailed account of how the central government acted in this case, but I think you have missed the opportunity - and I do not want us to do it in this session - to look back and look at those work and work that could have been carried out in order not so much, logically, to prevent what happened, but its consequences. I am referring very specifically, in the case of the Ebro River, to what the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation itself has recognized as a fact that has significantly improved what should have been the strict causes of the storms, such as the fact that the Ebro channel is elevated. The Ebro Hydrographic Confederation is shielded by environmental legislation, which prevents the clearing of channels, but I believe that this should not prevent this from being one of the tasks being undertaken. I repeat, not being work or matter of his competence, but realizing that today he is the spokesman of this royal decree, I transmit it to him so that he will be transferred to the minister of the branch. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Barkos. Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday we were discussing in the Committee on Agriculture the penultimate initiative of many others that all the groups have been putting forward to worry about and deal with the recurring damage to the growth of the Ebro. UPN has also introduced its own throughout this legislature. Since 2012, when we included an important amendment in Law 14/2012, we have put forward numerous initiatives: written questions, requests to appear, requests for reports to all concerned administrations. We presented an inquiry and a subsequent motion for an inquiry, which we saw on 23 April 2013 and which was approved by this House. We are submitting successive amendments to the 2014 and 2015 budgets to increase the allocation of aid to many locations affected by previous floods. And in the past debate on the state of the nation of 2015, the only motion for a resolution that my group had and that we used exclusively was addressed precisely to the government, urging it, among other things, to bring what we are debating today, which is this actual aid decree. We should draw some conclusions on this debate. One, that although the growths are recurrent and normal - we talked about it the other day in the Commission - the damage should not be, let alone accept them as something natural or normal. Secondly, that we should desideologize as far as possible the treatment of this problem in order to be able to solve it: the growths are neither right nor left, nor clean the river is, or lift the bikes, shrink them or compensate those affected. Thirdly, as we say in Pamplona, we should let the technicians of all the administrations, there are, and many. Fourthly, we must coordinate the efforts of all of them and of all public administrations to implement concrete policies, strategies and measures in prevention, effective water management, compensation and comprehensive aid, if we really want to be effective. I want to value the royal decree-law and, in any case, make two notes. First of all, it seems to me right that this royal decree contains in Article 1(3) the provision to extend the coverage to the damage that will occur until 31 May, because yesterday we had again problems in Navarre. Secondly, and without precedent, I agree with the Member of Geroa Bai that it would be important for you to speak with your colleague Montoro so that the expenses that the autonomous communities have to face - in this case, I speak from Navarre - do not compute as a deficit. In any case, as far as Navarre is concerned, I must say and defend that his Government has also acted speedily, swiftly, with closeness to those affected, authorizing all that the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation has requested, granting grants, approving decrees, implementing own projects and acting through the public society GAN in what it was competent to do. I think we are able to do better, and it would certainly be useful to join forces to give a definitive, guaranteed and environmentally respectful response. If we want to discuss some things, we could do it about whether reservoirs like Itoiz have helped to avoid further damage, why we are not able to optimize the immense amount of water, that every year is wasted by the normal growths of the Ebro or why some have a speech about the management of the Ebro but when they confront the affected or the farmers they have another completely different one. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that we will approve this validation and thanking all the people, organisations and administrations who have helped to minimize the damage of these growths and to control the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u33	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. By the same group, Mr. Quadra.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing this decree-law, there are again floods in Navarre, roadblocks and in some localities the state of pre-alert has been given. These floods are the third of this year, in just three months; the previous ones were very strong and gave rise to this decree-law, but they add up, in turn, to those we had in 2013, in 2007, in 2005, and so on. It has already been said that large rains and floods are inevitable but their effects can be mitigated, and this requires preventive policies and precise plans. It should be recalled here that the European Union in 2007 adopted a mandatory directive for all Member States, which called for the Member States to adopt precise management plans to deal with floods. Eight years have passed and this plan is non-existent in the Spanish State, which is a guilty negligence. It can be said with total certainty that, if these plans had existed, the damage that would have been caused by these floods would have been quite minor. Yesterday, the Foreign Parliament adopted a resolution calling for two things: the first, to make a comprehensive management of the Ebro; and the second, to demand that this plan, which the European Union in its day demanded, be adopted as quickly as possible, because the deadline for doing so is 31 December; eight years of negligence. Rivers are more than just a water channel. They are channels, but they are also banks and flood plains. This directive considers this to be the case, because it understands that the treatment to be given to them in order to anticipate these floods and their damage must, above all, go hand in hand with water, to recover meanders, to recover riparian forests, to reduce the existing moths considerably and to respect the flood plains; not to channel the rivers, but to release them so that the damage is minor in any case. However, today, water, which is a scarce good, has become a business. Large swamps, transfer projects are made; there are also projects to privatize their management and these banks, these flood plains, in turn, are flooded by agricultural farms of all kinds, industrial farms, and are also converted into urban and urban soils. What is needed is to walk in the opposite direction, because if not, what happens and is that from time to time, periodically, rivers descend with their own writings under the arm claiming their domains and then all this damage occurs. Preventive policies are needed; not only aid, which is completely plausible, such as those provided for in this decree-law, but these preventive treatments. With regard to aid, it should be remembered that one thing is to preach and another is to give wheat. In July of last year we had some very strong floods in the north of Navarre, in the Baztan, and there the usual policy was made; rubber boots policy, plumber, easy promises, easy words, but they are still to see the aid that the individuals and the municipal administrations themselves promised then and that they have not arrived. The aid must therefore be greater, rather greater. Agrarian organizations have described those contained in this decree-law as totally inadequate. It is necessary to increase this aid a lot; and it is necessary, above all - because many floods are there knocking on the door - to have a preventive policy, a preventive hydraulic policy. In any case, Amaiur is going to vote in favour of this decree-law because, even if we consider this aid to be very insufficient and critical, it has to reach its beneficiaries as quickly as possible. We demand a substantial increase in these and a hydraulic policy based on the parameters I have commented on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u35	For the Basque Group, Mr Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u36	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak very briefly, because I believe that the most important thing has already been said and we all agree on the same, in the need for this or for another real decree to act urgently to alleviate what the floods have caused in many parts of the north of the Spanish State and, above all, in the areas of Aragon, the Foral Community of Navarre and in some parts of Euskadi, and also in others. This is an almost recurrent or, rather, competing element, because every year we have some other flood, some other disaster of this kind, and every year the Government has to generate a real decree of similar characteristics. In this case, I do not think the contents are so important, because at the end of the day they are similar to the others, but we could question whether the economic amounts that the Government needs and appreciates in this royal decree are necessary, sufficient or insufficient, or how to pay them and organize them are required. Obviously, this royal decree provides for a number of aids and there is flexibility, but there are also ceilings in both quantities and percentages. A section of the Royal Decree states that in the event that the persons concerned have been compensated by the Insurance Compensation Consortium, subject to the exemption provided for in various articles, a subsidy of up to 7 % of the amount of compensable damages caused by the accident and up to a maximum of EUR 8,000 may be granted. It can be an arbitrary criterion. I don't know why they have to be €8,000 and a 7 % subsidy, because surely each case would require a different amount since not all the victims are equal or go through the same situations. The Royal Decree provides for EUR 105 million of aid, of which the Magrama, the Ministry of Agriculture, would have to pay out an amount of EUR 70 million; the Ministry of Development, EUR 30.5 million; and the Ministry of the Interior, EUR 5 million. This is the economic distribution that this royal decree makes. I have nothing against what the decree raises, but yes certain questions. In line with what I was commenting, is this amount that the Government has decreed sufficient? Why did you put this amount on? On the basis of what criteria? Because maybe more is needed. In the same way that it has specified a deadline but with an extension or with a situation that leaves open until May even though the floods have already occurred, perhaps economically we should also leave an open deadline because surely not all the needs will be covered with the money earmarked for this purpose. Coordination with the affected autonomous communities is also important, because because of the work that has been required by the action - and the actual decree itself contemplates it - it has not been possible to wait for a real decree to come out or for the Government to act. There had to be action and expenses had been incurred, some of which included this royal decree. We're not going to get into political guerrillas - because they don't bring anything at all - about if I don't know who by not being in it I don't know which place has contributed more or less. Here we must act, who is responsible for it and when it is appropriate for it, and at the time we must respond to the responsibilities of each of them, both the administrations concerned in carrying out the work they had to do, and in this case the General Administration of the State in meeting those costs which have been incurred. I ended my speech with one question. Nature has no limits, it does not warn, but acts. By the legacy of history, when certain situations occur we know what the consequences may be. Therefore, we would have to do a deeper analysis of whether we are prepared for these situations, whether our rivers or our fields of cultivation are as they should be to respond to those facts that occur when nature acts, whether our rivers are maintained as they should be, etc. So important is palliative work, which is - and in these cases there is no other remedy - such as preventive work, which in many cases is the outstanding subject. My group will support this royal decree, as it could not be otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u37	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mrs Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u38	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, from the point of view of my group, of the Progressive Union and Democracy, this decree-law is quite comprehensive in all the elements that must be addressed by a decree of these characteristics and, from the technical point of view, it also seems to us that it is correct and that it is well done. We will therefore vote in favour, of course, of the victims, for whom we call on the Government to give priority to redress for all the individual situations that have caused the floods and floods, and also agility in dealing with them. But we also want to point out in this process how the facts reveal the limitations of the Government's policy. First, preventive policies have been lacking. It's something UPyD has been asking for for a long time. We have been talking for years about the proper management of surpluses. Secondly, we have repeated on numerous occasions that integrated hydraulic policies with a national vision are needed. If it is possible that a river like the Danube is managed internationally and with the coordination of different countries, it cannot be that in a country like Spain the management of the basins is not national and is not integrated. We believe that in this mismanagement, in this non-integrated management, there is the key to many of these preventive policies and also the key to ensuring that this does not happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Lozano. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u40	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by reminding the people who have suffered and continue to suffer from this time, both on the coasts and in the different watersheds of the State. At this time - it has already been said from this rostrum - the bank of the Ebro grows again, the Ebro again suffers a new growth that threatens to flood again what was already flooded a few days ago. Before that, you present this decree in order to respond to what has happened, a decree which we have already told you is absolutely and clearly insufficient, which is far from representing a real solution to the problems that this avenue has created, and perhaps - we hope that this is not so because it has already been talked about in this House and we will talk about it again - a decree which we do not want to end and a necessary debate to emerge in this Parliament, which is to raise the need for proposals in the medium and long term that will allow from another point of view - because this has not worked, Minister - to guarantee and manage coexistence with a river in a heavily overcrowded environment, such as that of the Ebro basin. We want to talk about all these things in our intervention: the measures contained in the decree, the management and the lack of coordination that has occurred despite their interventions and the proposals for the future. I tell you that there has been a lack of coordination, Minister, because the municipalities concerned have been dizzy with changing information about flows in short periods of time. There have been times when municipalities have had to make decisions to protect their peoples without timely advice. That can't be allowed. There are clear responsibilities there, and I will talk about it later. The municipalities have been up to it and the neighbors of the municipalities have been up to it. That is why this royal decree does not do justice, and I already enter into its content. A decree that is sluggish and scarred, which should imply that the State, as the ultimate responsible party, should assume 100 per cent of the damage caused and the measures to be taken. He said that he is scarring with the municipalities for the following: From entry excludes - that you have not commented on, minister - from the aid all the work that the municipalities did with their own human means that were hired before what happened. Questions I put to you: Who is going to do the urgent tasks, but the staff of the city council? Who will pay and who will take care of the overtime involved in this work, the materials, the machinery or the fuel? Who's gonna do it? Because you have excluded that from the decree. Are you aware of the economic situation that the municipalities are going through as well as making them pay 50% of a cost that is the result of decisions that have nothing to do with their management? There are more elements in the content of this royal decree that we want to put on the table. You close the doors again to hiring unemployed workers. Not only that, but they also propose to use them again to work for free on reparation measures. We are not against communal work, but it would be an excellent opportunity to generate employment. With regard to farms, I would like to ask you two initial questions. Have you updated the data yet? You speak of 20,000 hectares. The figure, according to those affected, is already at 45,000 hectares. Another question I would like to ask you with regard to agricultural holdings: do you know that this decree excludes around 50% of damaged farms if we take into account the degree of penetration of agricultural insurance in the basin, which is a sine qua non condition for access to aid? Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the affected elements of non-insurable agricultural holdings, of which you spoke before, the possibility of aid is again submitted only to holders who have a policy covered by the combined insurance plan. It is a strange criterion because, in addition to being tied to 70%, it confines the maximum linear top - they have already told you - to 8,000 euros. You know that this is going to mean that many people, many affected, see very little repair to the real damage that has been caused to them in their livelihoods and, worse, neither will they arbitrate white credit measures or any other kind of measures at that financial level to ensure that the people who have lost everything can start all over again. The economic impact has already been discussed: EUR 105.7 million, as you said, for a good part of the Spanish territory, if not for the Spanish territory as a whole. That's nothing, 106 million euros for Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria, Basque Country, Castile and León, Navarre, La Rioja, Aragon and Catalonia and some more that will have to be incorporated because obviously there will be more damage. I want to remind you, simply because it is necessary, for example, the Guadalupe basin that is also going through a very bad time or the inclimences that there was in the south, in February, on the coast. Minister, 105 or 106 million is a bit of a laugh. Of these, 43 million are for the public hydraulic domain by the Magrama, 30.6 million for Fomento and 8.6 million for roads. There is no provision here because they say that damage to the Aragonese roads is not quantified, but we hope, Minister, that this expenditure will be incurred. Finally, we arrive at the interior staff where they allocate 5 million euros for all things. This is a joke, ladies and gentlemen. Is that limited to the economic estimate of the Government's commitment to people directly affected by the weather throughout the country? Is that what that commitment is all about? They say they have done so in coordination with the autonomous communities, but I remind you that the ministry is responsible for the inter-community basin of the Ebro, in this case. They say that they have done so in coordination with the Autonomous Communities, the same Autonomous Communities that are recognizing that these amounts are absolutely insufficient and that they have to draw money from where there is no, Your Honor, to fulfill their laxity. But there's still more. Do you intend to cover with 3.5 million euros all the expenses that the municipalities have made, with a million all the damage to the commercial establishments and with half a million all the damage to homes and goods? Ladies and gentlemen, we sincerely believe that this is absolutely insufficient and we therefore hope that this enlargement will take into account the real damage and the necessary amount of reparation. Responsibilities. It is necessary to ask for responsibilities, but not those below, as Mrs Rudi has done in the government of Aragon, not the technicians, but upwards. We want these responsibilities to be delineated here in this management that we consider to have been harmful. We told him in Aragon: the president of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, of the CHE, much more overflowing than the river, has to resign, minister. Send it to the Minister of Agriculture. [[Applauds]] Proposals for the future. In 2003 in Aragon a similar growth led us to draft the Ebro and Bajo Cinca Environmental Plan, which was unanimously approved ten years ago by all the groups that we are in the House represented in Aragon, including yours. This last riada highlights what it means to have done absolutely nothing, in the Aragonese section in this case, of the measures contained in that plan. There were 87 measures that were absolutely necessary and that were developed by technicians and professionals, and that also had a broad consensus on social matters. It is essential that there is such a consensus in designing other policies for the management of the hydraulic public domain. However, nothing has been done and has been governing both the Socialist Party and the People's Party, however much they later discuss who has the most muddy shoes in the photos. Growing up is a natural and recurring phenomenon - they have already told you here -. The European Floods Directive also learned from events in 2002 and put on the table that has to work with the nature of the rivers and not against them. On the contrary, here we continue to encourage other types of policies that continue to consider that there is a need to change and that there is a need to artificially intervene in the width and shape of rivers, also creating a false sense of security and a false sense of control, as has been seen precisely in this episode of floods. What do we propose? Quickly. To approve and carry out the flood risk management plan with an integral view of the basin; this cannot be done in a piecemeal way, with separate administrative plots at the community level, we must do so with a view to the basin, integral, and by recovering the contents of that Ebro environmental plan which told them in terms of prevention - fundamental - protection and recovery: the immediate recovery of infrastructures, we must do another method of compensation, the damage produced in the lands that laminate the avenues below have to be paid for otherwise not through agricultural insurance, we must shield the urban helmets, improve the mechanisms of information, the channels of relief, the areas of controlled flood, the permeability of infrastructures, the shrinkage, the elimination or construction of new bikes, the rethinking of certain uses of the territory, the reforestation with riparian vegetation. It is necessary - I finish already - to define clearly, Minister, the limits of the hydraulic public domain and its associated areas, with the aim not only of protecting that domain but also of avoiding the risks facing the adjacent areas. Since the 1960s we have cut and reduced the river space by half in the case of the Ebro, by half. Secondly, we must bet on sustainable, effective and continuous cleaning and not on other formulas which, in addition to being illegal - as has already been said here - are more expensive and do not solve the problem in the long run. Today, the important and urgent thing is to compensate and help those affected. We fully agree, and I believe that we will agree with all the groups, but your decree, Minister, is short, very short in this respect and has a lot of propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u41	Mr. Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u42	I'm done. But for us it is no less important to reflect and act in another way so that this does not happen again. From La Izquierda Plural we demand it because we are tired of the government in charge only remembering Santa Barbara when it thunders, minister, while letting die the solutions that exist placed in the drawers, and that is absolutely incomprehensible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u43	Thank you, Mr. Sanz. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Guillaumes. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the royal decree-law to repair the damage caused by the storms in January, February and March 2015. Here would come a first review. Then I will refer to whether it would not be worth using a real decree, in the face of situations that are happening at this very moment or that can be expected to happen in the future, whose time span was longer. I have to say - and I am glad to be able to say this because I do not do so very often - that in this case there is no competitive invasion, the Ebro basin is the competence of the State. I also like to say this because surely in my next two interventions I will have to say the opposite; that is, that it does not seem like something we say in principle but that when the invasion exists we say it and when it does not exist we also like to underline it. Things we don't like about this royal decree. In addition, the costs of personnel, firefighters, local police, civil protection, etc. are explicitly excluded - and another spokesman has already mentioned it - i.e. the costs of personnel, which are therefore from autonomous communities and local corporations. Unrighteous. For the autonomous communities with competence it is unfair but above all it is unfair for the local administrations, which have made a great deal of effort: their local police, their civil protection services. Services which are not their own, for which they have no competence but which they have to provide because they are next to the citizen, are specifically excluded from the protection of this royal decree. We think it's wrong. The possibility of agreements with autonomous communities to assist in improvements is envisaged. This is fine, but then, when we move on to the rest of the coordination elements, it seems to us to some extent surrealistic. The commission that is dedicated to coordinating with the Autonomous Communities the whole issue of aid is made up entirely of high officials of the State and by - someone might think that by the Directors-General of Civil Protection of the Autonomous Communities, if not - the delegates of the Government of the Autonomous Communities. In other words, everything that has to be coordinated will have to be done per person involved. This is no longer a question of a model state, it is a question of pure rationality. How can one do such an unwise thing as a commission where those who make decisions are not represented but who represents is someone to whom these decisions will be communicated? I repeat, it is not a model of state, it is no more than a common-sense issue. But, finally, if you to be more comfortable prefer to speak to yourselves, it doesn't seem logical to us, but there you are. Very typical of a centralist model of state. We could also extend - I said earlier - the duration of the royal decree in view of the situations that are happening at this very moment; why multiply the bureaucracy, multiply the administrative decisions when we know positively that a new royal decree will surely be necessary in the future. This would be another criticism. Having said all this, we have no intention of putting sticks on the wheels to people who are suffering and these people are going to help with this royal decree; surely not in the best way, not with the best coordination, not with the best model, but it is a royal decree that is going to help people. Our obligation from this rostrum, from this Chamber, our first criterion must always be to serve the people, this is the criterion of the Catalan Group and in this sense we cannot oppose, even with its limitations, the content of the royal decree. Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. Mrs Sumelzo has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words to be in this rostrum to express the solidarity of the Socialist Group with all those affected by the floods on the Ebro River, whose situation remains very difficult today. Thousands of people, many families, a significant number of peoples in many autonomous communities are experiencing a real drama. Once again - and there are many in a very short time - they have seen that their economies, their own livelihoods are at risk because of the growth, and they have also perceived the lack of diligence and restraint in the response of the main authorities. I would like to highlight the enormous effort of all those people who have worked and continue to do so to reduce the severe impacts of this catastrophe. As always, the selfless work of many people reminds us that this is a solidarity country that has its greatest capital in the quality of its citizens. And, ladies and gentlemen, since 2003 the overflow of the Ebro River has caused considerable damage to the people affected by the floods. Growths have been repeated in 2007, 2013 and 2015 with devastating consequences. The management that the public authorities have carried out in these last two disasters has been manifestly and objectively very poor. We're really sorry to have to say that. We would have preferred it for the sake of thousands of people who did not, but the truth is that it has acted badly and very late, as the affected ones themselves have told us. I do not want to go any further on a complaint that we have already made clear at the time. Today is the time to talk about the measures adopted and to ensure that, on the one hand, they are of a scale commensurate with the magnitude of the disaster and, on the other hand, that these aids reach those affected as soon as possible. That is the only objective of my group: to face this debate so that aid can be provided as soon as possible and in addition. In order not to extend myself, only a data sufficiently expressive of what this catastrophe has been. The number of hectares of crops flooded is close to 45,000 between Aragon, La Rioja, Navarra, Euskadi and Castile and León and represents - surely they will coincide with me - a catastrophe that demands not only the solidarity of all, but also an effective commitment to those affected by the public authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be very clear, this royal decree is not the appropriate response to the scale of the catastrophe. The resources allocated do not conform much less to the reality of the impact of the overflow. For the Socialist Group, the answer, which is manifestly insufficient, is a scar. In addition, most of the resources that it provides are intended to repair the damage to state-owned infrastructure and a smaller part for municipal infrastructure and farms and livestock whose owners see with scepticism - and I am short - the possibility of receiving the aid in a short period of time, when they still have pending - and I would like to stress this - the perceptions promised to them in 2013 by the floods that took place that year. Minister, the government is wrong. In the face of such disasters, the commitment of the public authorities must be to meet all the areas concerned, but the first political and moral obligation must be with people, and today it is not. The resources allocated are not by approximation the necessary ones and will leave, Minister, without the necessary coverage to many families. You have chosen to reject the proposals which, once we have listened to the people concerned, we have sent to you, the Socialist Party, with a comprehensive plan of support for those affected and investments on the banks. That is certainly a mistake by the Government because what we wanted was to add efforts and it is a mistake that does not add as much effort as to improve responses. A number of actions have also been called for from agricultural organizations, which have only been partially accepted. To mention some very striking shortcomings, we miss commitments and agreements with banks to adapt loans to zero interest and different financing-related measures that must be made available to farmers and farmers. In the same area, the Socialist Group believes that an aid plan is essential to compensate for damage to agriculture and livestock and an ICO credit programme with a subsidised interest. You have also not incorporated the so-called compensation for loss of profits into the farms of some crops and livestock farms, and under no circumstances is envisaged, and it would be crucial to do so for the future of many small farms and it is fair to look after it, my group supports it without any doubt. On the other hand, and in the context of the CAP, they have failed to take account of the need to make the declaration of exceptionality for the crops and areas concerned, which would lead to an extension of the application deadline and the advance of the 50% levy. You have decided not to meet these demands that respond to the reality of what thousands of family savings need to move forward. The Government has turned its back on what has been claimed and on what our parliamentary group supports. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Government has decided that it is the National Agricultural Insurance Plan that is responsible for the huge losses of agriculture and livestock, which have also been cut by 30% in recent years by the People's Party Government, which is certainly not the best news for the management of compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, the only effective way in which we can combat the damage caused by natural disasters is to make the necessary investments that can mitigate them if they are not prevented. We all know that the cuts made by his Government in the essential investments have been decisive in achieving the current situation. It is essential, Minister, to articulate medium-term solutions to combat the effects of growth because the current situation is unsustainable, and no longer just because the main means of life in coastal areas are put into check, but because they can also endanger people's lives. Finally, I have summarized our serious objections to the contents of the royal decree, because we understand that it does not offer the necessary answers and that it is clearly insufficient. However, the only objective of my group is to serve the interests of those affected, their economy and their security. That is why, by responsibility and by commitment to those concerned, we will vote yes. Having said that, they will allow me to address the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group in particular to call for an effort in favour of dialogue and to allow this royal decree to be treated as a bill. In this way, we would ensure that those affected receive the aid and benefits provided for in the Royal Decree immediately. Without prejudice to this, new initiatives would also be incorporated that would certainly clearly improve the scope and content that we are discussing today. If you agree to this, count on the willingness of the Socialist Group to work loyally to improve the answers and to approve among all a project in line with the catastrophe we are experiencing. If they do not, if they choose to reject our hand, our vote will continue to be affirmative to the validation of the royal decree-law for what it implies of support - although we believe that this royal decree is scarring - to the thousands of affected families, who are the ones that really matter to us, but do not doubt, they will have lost the opportunity to improve the response to the catastrophe and this today deserve thousands of people who demand solutions and not patches. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you at a time when the situation in Aragon is obviously complicated, it is difficult both on the right and on the left, for this good news of the extension of the decree, of the effects of the avenues until May 2015. You said you were asking for the House's support. It is clear that many political groups - including the Socialist Parliamentary Group, despite that heated speech, Mrs Sumelzo, who has been doing so for many days - will support it and will support it because it is a good decree. There's no worse deaf person than the one who doesn't want to hear. The Minister has explained it and, as I cannot explain it better, I will not do it. The open word means that the amount is approximate at a time, ladies and gentlemen, when it is very difficult to assess the damage because the water is still in the river. It is complicated, so the Government, with good judgment, says that this is an initial amount and from there what is needed. Doubts have been raised about the decree and, indeed, they have either not read it or do not want to know what the reality is. I insist that I will not explain it because the minister has done it as no one else has done in this rostrum - you review the "Diaries of Sessions" of the years 2003 and 2007 and you will see that there is no intervention that explains it so much - when there has been an increase. But I want to give you some thought to what is happening in a situation like this. What do citizens expect when there is a tragedy of the magnitude of what we are talking about? The response of the administrations - the minister explained - was that the civil protection services worked quickly and hard and that this prevented part of the population from being flooded. The response of the State Administration - the minister has detailed it - was: visit of the Minister of the Interior, visit of the Minister of Agriculture, the government delegate was at the foot of the cannon in Aragon tomorrow, evening and night, the presidents of the autonomous communities were at the foot of the cannon and the secretary of state was at the foot of the cannon. In four days all this happened and ended the visit of the President of the Government of Spain, who announced that decree that we are talking about here today. And what happened that you don't want to talk about it? How did the Autonomous Communities of Navarre, La Rioja and Aragon react the next day? They said: As far as the Government is concerned, 100 per cent of the damage will be compensated by the Autonomous Communities. That's why yesterday in Aragon another decree was validated and that's why La Rioja and Navarra did it, and that's what you deliberately wanted to omit here today. Do you know why all this happens? Because we have a concept of state. The composite state, the autonomous state means, ladies and gentlemen, that in the end all administrations collaborate to solve the problems of the citizens. I understand this sounds weird to you. You know why? When in 2003 there was a growth of the Ebro as serious as this, Mr Iglesias Ricou, president of the government of Aragon - it will sound to you, Mrs Sumelzo - did not want to receive the Minister of Agriculture and Environment from the government of Spain to talk and see how they solved the problem. That's the way you understand the state, that's the reality, and there's the hemerotheques. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] I understand these things bother, but that's what's going on and the truth hurts. And now the next day it turns out that Tragsa has been put to work, Sarga has been put to work and they have been trying to replace motorcycles, fix roads and remove corpses in very difficult situations, with the thanks - to be said - of each of the mayors of the affected municipalities. So far what's happened. And what is the second question that those affected expect in a growth? May the political class live up to the circumstances, ladies and gentlemen. That's what they expect. If you look at what happened in the years 2003 and 2007... By the way, Mrs. Sumelzo, the growths of the Ebro are not from 2003. If it serves him, Caesar, the best general in all history, was trapped in the Ebro and the Huesca had to go save him. Look at what life is and what history is. [[Applauds]] In any case, if you look at the hemerotheques you will realize that in the 2003 and 2007 growths there was little political criticism and we were three months away from the elections. Life's Casuality! Three months after the elections, if you look at it, there was very little political criticism. He only disagreed with the money, which is always insufficient. What's changed? The new PSOE has changed. In this crisis the new PSOE has changed. Mr Sánchez arrived to worry about those affected and talk about discoordination - today you have repeated it again; I have noted your words -, disgovernment and irresponsibility. They called Mrs. García Tejerina irresponsible. [[Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan makes negative signs]] Yes, Mrs. Sumelzo, there are the hemerotheques. They called Mrs. García Tejerina irresponsible for the statements she had made. That's what's changed. Mr Lamban was certifying a new way of doing politics and, indeed, it is a long-standing way of doing politics. They forget the human tragedy and only go for the votes and wear out the People's Party. That is what has changed in this crisis. [[Applauds]] You put in the non-law proposal on February 26, when you didn't know what was going to happen in the river. The water was in Castejon, but you already gave it up. You complain that this government has been slow with a decree that it has made in six days. Hey, on 2007 Avenue, it took you 13 days. We do it in half time, we do it better, and they criticize us. I don't know where you're from, Mrs. Sumelzo. Aragon has a lot of history of water and you should know it, because to know if one thing is done right or wrong you have to compare. They have been demanding - and today they have done it again - performances in the river. Now the debate is whether to drag the river or not, whether to open the bikes or not, more expansion zones, etc. That is the debate that would have to be, and there will be because the presidents of the autonomous communities have already asked for it. But to dredge the Ebro River there is a problem: ZEPA zones, LIC zones, soots and galachos, etc. Do you know what the problem is? Those who passed the regulations that shielded the river were the Socialist Party in the years 2004-2008. They're demanding that we do something when you put in the means not to do it. How many meters high has Yesa rolled to Itoiz? Someone mentioned Itoiz before. One and a half feet. Do you know who paralyzed Yesa's regrowth? Do you know that if Yesa had been recreated maybe we would have slowed down another meter? Who paralyzed those works? You know that: the Socialist Party. [[Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan: No, no]] If Mrs. Narbona came here, I'd say yes. I would say: I paralyzed the works and with the acquiescence of the Socialist Party of Aragon. You know that. You've never understood the theory of causality. You should study Aristotle a little, because it's good to know that every cause has an effect. That's the problem. You think you've ruled, you've done things, and that doesn't have an effect. The problem that no more avenues can be laminated is that the reservoirs are not regrown. I will not overlook that you have followed these days with acidity. I thought that as a result of the Minister's explanations you were going to lift the foot of the accelerator a little bit, but you continued with acidity. For several days they urged Rajoy to come down to the mud. He knows that I am also councillor of the City of Zaragoza and I have followed very interestingly the growth of the Ebro. I've seen a lot of mayors, neighborhood mayors I've been with, just like some of your classmates have been. The mayor is the iconic figure, the one who pulls. Do you know who I haven't seen on the critical weekend, 26, 27, 28 February and 1 March? Do you know who wasn't because he was at the weekend? Juan Alberto Belloch Julbe. Do you know who I didn't see on the 6th, when the president of the Spanish government came to see how he solved the problems and met with the mayors? To the mayor of Zaragoza, Juan Alberto Belloch Julbe. It was a bridge in Zaragoza. It is time for you to change your policy, be responsible and start solving the problems instead of going fishing. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Suárez Lamata.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u50	We turn to the next item: amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. Position-fixing turn. Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments adopted in the Senate to this bill have not changed what is meant by a serious setback in justice and freedoms in the draft, as we have said before in Congress. The Government has listened deafly to all the critical and reasoned reflections that have been poured out from different areas, mainly the judicial, on the amendments to the Criminal Code contained in this draft, which is now finalizing its proceedings, and has maintained - the Government - with the sole support of its imperishable group to adopt measures based on something as negative for the delivery of justice as populism. They have chosen to increase criminal punishment and move away from deepening the primary purpose of resocialization of sentences. Special motion deserves what is termed euphemistically reviewable permanent prison, which is nothing more or less than life imprisonment, to what we have opposed from the very beginning, not since it was dealt with in Congress, but when the Government began to talk about its intention to apply this figure to the Penal Code. You are therefore moving away, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, from what is emanating from the Spanish Constitution in relation to the resocialisation of penalties. We therefore hope that this law, which is finally approved today, will have constitutional remedies from different areas and we hope that their resolution will restore to our Criminal Code the sanity of providing justice from reason and not from the irrationality of emotions. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we maintain our position on these amendments to the Criminal Code, because we understand that the People's Party has an impact on this repressive attitude that is characterizing this government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Davila. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are approving the reform of the Criminal Code, a reform that has been coined since the punitive populism of constantly worsening penalties and captivating the sensationalism of some media; a reform that means a setback in rights and freedoms and, which the Republicans reject, because it incorporates the suppression of faults, that is, a hardening of the penal system, introduces life imprisonment and introduces reforms of security measures, which will be detached from the penalty. In short, it places in check freedom of expression, freedom of information and freedom of peaceful assembly. In fact, you approve the twenty-first reform of the Penal Code, but you miss the opportunity to address such crucial issues as the full right to freedom of expression by decriminalizing the crime of insulting the Crown and the crime of insulting Spain. Nor do they take the opportunity to incorporate the right to dignified and painless death. Nor are they able to decriminalize the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Nor do they equate believers and non-believers. Nor do they take the opportunity to punish the death of animals in public shows. Of course, they do not penalize the banalization, the apologia and the exaltation of Francoism, phalangism, fascism and Nazism. This is therefore an authoritarian, classy and cheating reform, to which the Catalan Republicans will vote against. What is being done is to incorporate one more law into this trident, which is adopted here today, consisting of the reform of the Criminal Code, anti-terrorist measures and the law of gags; that is, three laws that are going to further abhor citizens and weaken the social and legal state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mrs Enbeita, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal scholars say that, to a large extent, the democratic quality of a country is measured by the content of its criminal law. In Amaiur we share, in principle, this reflection which, brought to the case, leads us to affirm that the Spanish State has stoned its poor democratic quality reform after reform of the Criminal Code, because this, ladies and gentlemen, has not begun today. This week we have again found that in the Spanish State it is very easy to arrest the psychologist who corroborates the allegations of torture and tries to cure the sequelae, but it seems very difficult to investigate, prosecute and convict the torturers. It is very easy to criminalize solidarity with political prisoners and arrest their relatives for pure revenge, but it must be very difficult to understand that, as long as we stay alive, we will get to our relatives wherever they take them. [[Pronounce words in Basque]] It is very easy to condemn those who have to steal to survive, but it is very difficult to judge and condemn public officials who plunder public money to distribute it among their own, as we have seen in Nafarroa, in Araba and elsewhere. It must be very easy to judge and condemn for public disorder or disobedience the worker protesting the maximum dismissal of her colleagues, but it must be very difficult for them to judge and condemn companies and banks that, as in the case of Miren Peña, push the workers into the abyss. Ladies and gentlemen, we could give a million more examples. In essence, this is its Penal Code. It is a penal code based entirely on supporting that large and free Spain in the service of the economic elites, passing over anyone who intends to change it. Imposition and repression, ladies and gentlemen, imposition and repression, that is the offer they have for those who do not share their model of state or for those who want freedom; in Euskal Herria we know a lot about this, unfortunately, they have taught us very well. For this to work, as you want, it seems that something more is needed than this scandalous reform: we need officials who, with honourable exceptions, of course, in prison, police station or in the courts understand and apply the essence of your Criminal Code and, if you do not understand it, you go and explain it to them. For example, a button: the Supreme Court. Judges of the Supreme Court denounced pressure from the Government not to compute the years of imprisonment that Basque prisoners had fulfilled in France, i.e., they denounced pressure from the Government not to apply European legislation. After a few weeks since that complaint, the Supreme Court changed its mind and passed European legislation olympically: total, most of all, were only ages. That is the democratic quality of your criminal law, ladies and gentlemen. Paraphrasing Evaristo Páramos, a great Galician philosopher settled in Euskal Herria, I would like to remind you that you intend to camouflage this fascism in democracy, because here you always command the same, ladies and gentlemen; and I add: for them, for their oligarchy. That is why they need this Penal Code, in order to continue to maintain their courtship and to continue to maintain their "francocracy", as my colleague Sabino Cuadra rightly said. [[He completed his speech in Basque, the text of which was given to the "Diario de Sesiones" in Basque and Spanish.]] Baina alferrik ari turete! Gaur, inoz jahiago bath, Euskal arrested in Askatasuna eskatzen dugu. Elkartasuna ez da delitua. Exean is bizirik nahi ditugu. You won't get away with it! Today, higher than ever, we claim the freedom of Basque political prisoners. Solidarity is not a crime. We want them alive and at home. [[A Member of Parliament: And the murders of ETA, what?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. Mr Olabarría has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, thank you for your presence. I'll be honest with you. I don't know exactly what we're discussing. If you know him and intend to intervene later to make a gloss of the norm, you can perhaps shed some light on us. We go from eccentricity and extravagance to other eccentricities and extravagances of greater magnitude, for using a legal expression. We are in a standard to which you, in the Senate, have incorporated ninety amendments, nothing less. With regard to what has come out of this House, you have amended yourself in ninety aspects; this makes up a different Criminal Code from what was adopted here. The one approved here was already complex to understand because it was the fruit, first - if I may say so - of a certain deception on your part, Minister, as long as in your first appearance, when you were appointed Minister, assured us to the spokespersons that only the Criminal Code was to be discussed, stating matters that could be agreed between the parliamentary groups. You haven't kept your word. In the end, he introduced the Penal Code, the amendment of which had been discussed in its entirety a year and a half earlier. It recovers a rule that apparently, the humus erat, was already amortized and the interlegislative is initiated through a procedure more worthy of Houdini than a parliamentary institution. There, in the paper, which was very brief, documents appeared, documents disappeared, written or handwritten transactions were presented, in which the lawyers of the Justice Commission should be congratulated not only for their legal knowledge, but for their knowledge and skills as documentalists. Transactions were presented one minute before they had to intervene, without knowing or having material time to analyze and evaluate them. In the end, no one knew very well what was prospering through this confusion of documents, of intended transactions, which were always impositions of amendments with that intended subject of consensus, but which were their amendments against the opinion of the other parliamentary groups. And this is compounded by this atrophy, which consists of the amendment of the rule as a whole, by the acceptance or incorporation of ninety amendments in the Senate, of its parliamentary group; this constitutes a different Penal Code that has not been subject to the mandatory filters of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State and the other consultative bodies that must report a rule that, in the Senate, becomes new - there is a kind of novation - through a legislative procedure that is far removed from the requirements of the ordinary legislative procedure. I do not know whether using terminology in administrative law we would be faced with an assumption of nullity with ex tunc effects of everything done so far. This would, of course, merit the possibility of bringing an appeal to the Constitutional Court only for procedural reasons, for reasons of the perversion of the legislative procedure involved. But in the end, one knows only what is harder and more harmful to know, that this Penal Code, in the end, is a brutal expansion and a brutal hardening of the system of penalties. I do not know if you have read the work of the Marquis of Beccaria, the fruit of the Illustration, which still inspires the most advanced and modern penal codes, and where it is established that the meaning of the penalties consists in the treatment and resocialization of the criminals, and it disassociates the meaning of the penalties or the ontological basis of the penalties of revenge, which was stated in the penal rules prior to Beccaria, both in German law and in canon law, continental law or Latin law or, ultimately, Roman law. He did not have to read it because there are rules here such as the permanent reviewable prison, which is the life imprisonment - let us not walk with euphemisms - that unfortunately has been endorsed, in another eccentric and extravagant operation where there are them, in the separation of the regulation of the crimes of terrorism from this reform of the Penal Code, placing them in a proposition of organic law that has been negotiated and agreed between the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the People's Party; with which the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is also approving the life imprisonment reviewable, despite the fact that its spokesman, when discussing the code, in another paradox or in another eccentricity or extravagance that we cannot understand, made the most harsh and lucid allegation, surely, against the life imprisonment, which is what we were talking about. Do not tell me that life imprisonment, as you have said in some statement to the media, is something different from the permanent reviewable prison that is located here, because in those countries of Europe, where life imprisonment is constitutionalized, as is the case in Germany and Italy, these life imprisonments are reviewable, but can be reviewed within a shorter time frame than the review deadlines provided for in this bill to reform the Criminal Code 25 years ago. We are talking about a figure - 25 years - that makes the legislation of the European Court of Human Rights consider these penalties degrading, humiliating and contrary to the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights, because we are talking about a life sentence in the strictest sense of the term, because it can also be life imprisonment. The review is based on criteria of absolute discretion or judicial arbitrariness. No one can guarantee that there is an element of rehabilitation for those who are suffering from a prison sentence, because we have all already thrown the towel, and you too, that in prisons or prisons no one can be rehabilitated, allowing the performance of a permanent prison to be reviewed is not a life imprisonment, a deprivation of liberty for life. I very much regret the Socialist Party's tacit adherence to the proposed law regulating terrorist crimes, and I believe that the Socialist Party will end up regretting it. Although the speech is not used, then we will discuss it in the next law, in the law regulating non-jihadist terrorism - all terrorism is regulated in the other proposal of organic law - because hardening is in everything. What can be understood from this rule which has had this peculiarity in its so singular processing is that in the matter of the connection of the crimes, the connection and the re-foundation is prevented through the systems of connection established by the recasting of the penalties; this automatically causes, as you know, Minister, an effect of elongation or extension of the penalties, a first prediction that establishes a greater punitive hardness, an expansion of the punitive right to solve social problems. He has already been told by other spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the word that is not the Criminal Code called to solve social problems, it is called to restore the meaning, the purpose of the penalties, which are those of special prevention, of general prevention and of remuneration in cases where there is a behaviour that is considered socially reprehensible by the immense generality of the citizens. But not only that, but they also ignore the requirements of the 2008 framework decisions in relation to the calculation of penalties when some of them have been met in foreign countries. They do not know that, and also with recourse, they risk being blamed by the institutions of the European Union for their conduct and even punishing them, as long as there is no calculation or if there is a dysfunction in the interpretation of these rules, as to the duration of the enforcement of sentences when some of them have been served abroad, between some judges of the National Court and the Supreme Court. By the way, the dubious independence of the Supreme Court has already been credited, and I say it very carefully. I do not like to be belligerent in these matters or make accusations that I cannot prove, but casually the so-called conservative majority of the judges of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court endorsed their criterion on the duration of the sentences, and the so-called progressive minority of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court decided otherwise. This gives us much thought to what is the system of provision of the Supreme Court squares, where one finds that the same alignments of forces occur as in the General Council of the Judiciary, which in turn has been previously designated also - all its members - by Congress and by the Senate. With regard to security measures, you have had the right view - I do not know whether you or your parliamentary group, someone - to exclude them simply from the text, because they were based on an absolutely meta-legal concept such as that of danger and failed to comply with two rulings of the Constitutional Court, 61/1998 and 36/1991, but they also harden the duration of the cancellation of criminal records, which are kept almost indefinitely in the central register of sentenced persons; they also harden the conditions for the release of persons over seventy years of age and maintain or harden the conditions for the release of persons suffering from serious illnesses. In short, everything that is stated in this draft organic law of the new Penal Code, which I hope or hope - I hope more than hope - that it will have little duration in time - among other things it will suffer remedies of unconstitutionality - means a hardening of the punitive reproach. You have glossed over the German criminalist Günther Jakobs, as I have. What's happening is we seem to have symmetrically contradictory interpretations of you and me. I don't know which part of Jakobs' work you have read or which part I have read, must be different books or rules. I believe that I have read all your works, and warns us legislators not to articulate criminal law from the ontological perspective of the criminal law of the enemy; you are encrypted in this position, in creating a criminal law of the enemy, not a criminal law of the citizen, which resolves social conflicts by applying a coherent, reasonable and proportionate criminal rule. They're not playing this. I know you're not going to formally give me the reason, but I have the absolute conviction, just as I have it from some of your spokespersons, that you share much of the argument I'm making. There are other subjects. Little progress has been made in the area of corruption offences. It was much more interesting a non-legislative proposal that unfortunately could not be discussed last Tuesday, presented by the Socialist Group, where criminal reproach for the illegal financing of political parties was still greatly improved, avoiding the asymmetry between the penal sanction to the political party, which corrupts and illegally obtains donations in exchange for a reward, and the corruptor. The limitation periods for offences of political corruption, which are tightened in the amendments, should be tightened. It turns into rapists for many children, for many young people, as long as it is established that unconsented sex is up to the age of sixteen. We are increasing the number of potential rapists from the age of thirteen to the age of sixteen. Thirteen years is a very low age, I understand it, but sixteen is excessive.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u58	Mr Olabarría, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u59	I am speculating on the air, on what is very difficult to determine, because you have made a Penal Code that has been debated as discussed, in a Commission that has lasted one morning, with a paper where not even Houdini himself with his ability could have handled so many documents simultaneously, without knowing what we were discussing either of the speakers in the paper. After that you change the whole rule with ninety amendments in the Senate. By the way, you have to explain to me, Minister, why they have not accepted either the one they promised us that they would accept us in relation to animal abuse by locating the unjustified speech - I think we are talking about a certain party called national -. With all this, you will understand that we are voting against all the amendments - I am saying this without credence and with the affection that we profess to each other - which have been adopted in the Senate in relation to this important - could have been, but it will not be because of their short duration - a rule that we are finalizing today. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking briefly to say that my group still does not support this draft amendment of the Criminal Code after its passage through the Senate because, although it is true that some small changes have been made, including some small amendment that we have tabled, we believe that the problem is substantive and very serious, and that everything that has happened with this Criminal Code sums up very well the spirit of this legislature, which we do not share at all. That is to say, the processing has been, as has been said, chaotic, technically bad, not even provided for a sufficient statutory vacancy for nothing less than the reform of the Criminal Code, and places judges, judges and lawyers in an impossible situation. They separate, within the reform of the Criminal Code, what has to do with terrorist crimes by making a separate organic law. It is an impossible and poisoned debate, moreover, for what is happening in the background. We think that with this Penal Code citizens are more unprotected than before because they have less guarantees of judicial guardianship, since transgressions, faults and crimes are more punished - but this happens in a State that is failing to meet basic rights of its own citizens - and they remain in a legal limbo a number of faults that now remain as sanctions in the administrative field and therefore without judicial guardianship. Frankly, we cannot share these amendments, and I also regret that you - as in other fundamental laws - have done a penal code in a rule of law that will last for what you have with an absolute majority, which is very bad news for the country, because once again - I repeat - it increases one of the worst problems and the worst shortcomings of our democracy: the enormous legal insecurity and the expiry of the basic rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr. Llamazares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a black day for civil rights and public freedoms in our country. No wonder they told Caesar: take care of the Idus of March. Beyond the Idus of March, this date of the end of March means an unprecedented setback in Spanish democracy. The authoritarian tripod of the reform of the Criminal Code, the Anti-Terrorist Act and the Citizens' Security Act - better called by the citizenry gag law - means an unprecedented setback in rights and freedoms in our country. It is the counterpart of criminal hardening to social loss. The social and democratic rule of law suffers a tremendous setback in the society of unrest, in the society in which cuts and austerity policies have caused more pain for Spanish society and, above all, for the weakest sectors of our country. In a preventive way, in the face of the response to the pain, the People's Party replaces the social State with a penal State; a penal State, as I said before, around the reform of the Penal Code, the Anti-Terrorist Law - which is not an anti-jihadist law - and, on the other hand, before the measures of the law gag. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the Penal Code is the opposite of what Bernaldo de Quirós said: a long and difficult Penal Code is an atavistic anomaly. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this Penal Code when it comes back from the Senate is still a greater atavistic anomaly: illegible, disproportionate, ambiguous and therefore charged with legal uncertainty. Moreover, it is a code disproportionate to the problems and needs of Spanish society. Today we replace the Penal Code of Democracy - which was not so much so, it was not the Penal Code of Democracy, it was a democratic but restrictive Penal Code - with the Penal Code of Life imprisonment. The classics say that life imprisonment is the death penalty of civilized countries. For our reviewable life sentence is a life sentence with a reviewable death penalty, i.e., with squatting because that is what it means to review the life sentence in our legal text. But this measure, which is the most representative of the reform of the Criminal Code, comes together with many others that bring us back to the 19th and early 20th centuries. Ladies and gentlemen, the life sentence was abolished in Spain by Primo de Rivera, that is, you are on the right of the dictatorship, on the right of Primo de Rivera. That is the main proposal of this Penal Code, but there are other very regressive measures as well. For example, it has to do with the response to citizen unrest. Let's say that the government in the face of citizen unrest has put in place a chain of measures or chained measures. In the face of civil disobedience, in the face of unrest on the streets, the Law on Citizen Security; in the face of resistance, the Criminal Code; and in the face of violence, anti-terrorist legislation. That is the scale of the Government, a disproportionate scale, a penal and prison scale that shows as I have said before a setback in the democratic state. And this is all part of what we could call Operation Gatopardo. Count Salinas, in El Gatopardo, comes to say a very representative phrase: Everything must be changed in order for everything to remain. For in this we are, ladies and gentlemen, changing everything so that everything will remain. We change social policies to defend the business benefits and the pre-eminence of the market over citizens, from the state of the middle to the state of unrest. We tighten criminal policies, the Law on Citizen Security, anti-terrorist legislation, to face social unrest and citizen discrepancy. There's no more, ladies and gentlemen, citizen security, just public order. On the other hand, we also replace political change with the replacement of the elites. That is also Operation Gatopardo, avoiding political change by changing only elites through design policy. That is the reality of Operation Gatopardo, which is progressing inexorably in our country, and which is part of this measure of the Penal Code that we are witnessing today; a black day for Spanish democracy with excessive hardening of the Penal Code and an authoritarian drift from our country. [[The lady]] With regard to the amendments that come from the Senate, we could say the same about what we said about the entire Penal Code. First, the Pandemonium of the Criminal Code is increasing, contradictions are increasing, legal uncertainty is increasing, penalties are disproportionate, all of which are increasing in transactions and amendments to the Criminal Code. And in case it wasn't enough we also witnessed the legal creationism that the People's Party has already installed in Spanish political life, and it is that the Senate has legislated a new heading of the Penal Code that was not dealt with in any of the debates of the paper. Some of these measures come as an entire chapter of the Penal Code to be discussed in Congress, and therefore from the point of view of form these procedures are also unacceptable. But in addition to the measures that come further accentuate the whole repressive Penal Code that we have dealt with in a hasty manner in the presentation procedure and in the Commission, there are amendments that have to do with the disproportionate response, with the criminal complaint, amendments that we will reject for the vast majority. We are not with this Penal Code at all, and what comes to us from the Senate is a corrected and expanded re-edition of the worst that Bernaldo de Quirós said, of the atavic anomaly. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I want to say that this Criminal Market Code, this Criminal Austerity Code which replaces the social and democratic rule of law with a security state, with a penal state, is not definitive. Citizens have limited part of the measures sought by the People's Party Government with citizen mobilization - compared to the Mordaza Act. The People's Party has therefore not achieved all its objectives, some of them have. We call on citizens to resist and disobey these laws. [[Applauds]] Resistance and disobedience that will surely make them obsolete laws, because institutional violence and domination have never lasted; the most enduring societies are the societies of consensus. Tell it if not to Julius Caesar. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. Mrs Surroca has the floor for the Convergence and Union Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this reform of the Criminal Code represents an important step backwards in our criminal justice system, a clear reversal. It is not the Penal Code of a modern society, it is not the reform that we would have wanted most of the groups in this House. It is a tailor-made reform of the People's Group; it is a reform that has not sought consensus, it has not been sought in Congress, but it has not been done in the Senate either, which in our view is a serious mistake because a reform of that stalemate, a reform as we have said on other occasions that represents a major paradigm shift in our penal system, needs precisely that consensus that we have called for all parliamentary groups, and that at a certain point even the minister himself in the Commission told us that it would be so, that there would be consensus, and that the reform that would be promoted would only be in those areas where there was broad consensus. Finally, that has not been the case, and in fact we have also seen it in the Senate. It is also a reform based on basic principles of criminal law, such as the principle of minimum intervention. It is not a penal code proper to the twenty-first century, it goes beyond the parameters of European countries in our environment, and the introduction of permanent prison reviewable - we have already insisted by our parliamentary group - we understand that it contradicts the Spanish Constitution. In short, this reform is far removed and far from the criminal justice model that Convergència i Unió defends. I think it would also be interesting to reflect on what criminal law means. Criminal law in a society, among many other things, also defines the model of a society, the model of what principles that society has; the Criminal Code is therefore part of that model of society that we want. It is not simply a list of repressive behaviour towards citizens, it is not just a penal code; a penal code is also defining what model of society we want. And in this case we believe that this profound reform of the Criminal Code defines a model of society that most of the parliamentary groups, in this case I am obviously speaking on behalf of Convergence and Union, we do not want, is a model that moves away from what our parliamentary group defends. Today we are in the final phase of this project, and we have already announced that our parliamentary group, in the same line as previous debates and votes, both here and in the Senate, will vote against it, and will vote against it because we do not share the principles on which it is based, and there is nothing that has been introduced in the Senate that has made us change our mind, rather on the contrary, reaffirms our initial approach against this project. We don't share the shapes. The spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party has made reference to this, to the way this project was dealt with here in Congress. The same happened in the Senate, in the various papers and committees, with papers constantly circulating in the last moments, even before the votes. I would also like to make a specific mention here of the Commission's lawyers who have done a great job, despite the difficulties. So we don't share the form. We believe that there should have been a much more calm and shared debate among all, a deep reflection on what model of criminal justice we want, and how this reform of the Criminal Code materializes. We are about to approve, as we said, a profound reform, and it also said that in Convergence i Unió we do not agree with this reform for reasons of form and neither for reasons of substance. We understand that it limits fundamental rights of individuals, especially with regard to the introduction of reviewable permanent prison. We have already said on other occasions that we should speak clearly here. We are not facing a permanent, reviewable prison, but we are truly facing a life sentence. Why? Because you don't set a final limit. There is indeed talk of reviewing, but we do not know when that permanent prison will end. A person could be years and years, indefinitely, and we wouldn't know how long he would be serving that life sentence. We are also faced with a reform that significantly aggravates the criminal consequences of the unjust act. There is a widespread and disproportionate increase in penalties. We also understand that in this case we are moving away, as we said at the beginning of the intervention, from the principle of proportionality which should govern the establishment of penalties, and we also believe that this reform is a false move towards greater criminal justice. Nor is he going to solve the real problems of justice, and some spokesman who has spoken before me has already said so. We believe that this reform will only do to fill some headlines and to implement in this case the electoral programme of the People's Party, but it will not really solve the problems of criminal justice. It does not address the true remaining subjects to enhance the effectiveness of justice. In this sense - we said it a few days ago - it is important to remember the words of the State Attorney General when he appeared in the Committee on Justice, where he gave us very important or revealing data. Spain ranks 33 in the European Union in the tax rate per population, and the same applies to non-tax officials. That is, we are below the European average. Therefore, taking into account the importance of the role of the prosecutor's office in criminal investigation and in general in all criminal proceedings, and seeing that we are at those levels far away from Europe, do you not think that this is a matter to which we should devote our efforts? This is a clear example of the real need for our penal system. We could also talk about the important need to reform the Criminal Prosecution Act, a far-reaching reform to speed up our criminal justice system. Those are real needs of our criminal justice system. I insist that since Convergence i Unió we believe that this reform of the Criminal Code is electoralist, it is a populist reform, that the only thing that pursues is to harden the penalties, increase the penalties unjustifiably, because as you well know our Criminal Code already contemplates very high penalties if we compare it with that of countries in our environment. It is therefore an absolutely unnecessary reform. I now return to the issue of reviewable permanent imprisonment or life imprisonment. Convergence i Unió has placed special emphasis on this issue, because our parliamentary group is totally against this prison, and we also have serious doubts about its constitutionality, while we believe it could violate the principle of legal certainty. In the Spanish regulatory framework and in our penal system, the reviewable permanent prison would run counter to article 25.2 of the Spanish Constitution, run counter to the resocializing purpose of sentences, and run counter to the prohibition of cruel and inhuman treatment and punishment. In short, I am not going to go any further on this issue, but I insist that our parliamentary group is totally against it. We would also like to stress that during the parliamentary process, in this case in the Senate, our parliamentary group tabled a number of amendments. Some of them would have substantially improved this reform and incomprehensiblely have not been accepted by the Group of the European People's Party, as has happened with amendments tabled by many groups, which we could support and subscribe to, because they coincide with those of our parliamentary group. I will make special mention of some of the issues that we believe that a reform of this stalemate should have incorporated. For example, we had to have improved the criminalization of xenophobia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u66	Mrs. Surroca, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u67	I'm finishing up. In this case our parliamentary group had tabled amendments, but they have not been accepted. I say the same with regard to cases of multirecidence in thefts, the elimination of faults and how traffic accidents were subsequently dealt with. In short, a long list of amendments from our parliamentary group which have been rejected by the People's Group and which would have substantially improved the text, but the option has been another, the option has been to adopt a reform tailored to the People's Group, excluding the contributions of the other groups in a project as important as this one was. That is why our parliamentary group is going to vote against this reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Aguilar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are holding today in this House the last debate on the reform of the Criminal Code carried out by the Government of the People's Party, which, if we join it with that which the People's Party also did in 2003 when it ruled, we can say that the right has buried the 1995 Criminal Code of Democracy. [[The President took the Chair.]] , a code which had a very broad consensus in this House and in all areas, and which not only ended the Penal Code of Francoism, but introduced modern criteria and parameters on the function of punishment, and you, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, have replaced it with a partisan, partisan Penal Code, the Criminal Code of the People's Party, which is based on deeply reactionary and authoritarian bases, and which has a strong ideological component on its merits. This reform, which is to be approved today only by the People's Parliamentary Group, in a clear abusive exercise of its absolute majority, which certainly does not correspond to the social majority, is carried out not only without consensus, but against all the groups in the House and the opinions publicly expressed, among others those who have manifested sixty professors of criminal law from thirty-three Spanish public universities, in the face of the grave situation to which you are carrying out penal and administrative sanctioning legislation in Spain. It is clear that you do not listen, do not hear, and only impose, a sign of identity of the People's Party Government. This is a reform that exposes the way this government works, and I say this because, ladies and gentlemen, then Minister Gallardón led to the approval of the Council of Ministers a preliminary draft that referred to the Council of State, the General Council of the Judiciary, and the Attorney General's Office, but then radically modified it. He returned to the Council of Ministers and was no longer the subject of a report. Mr Gallardón resigned and Mr Catalá arrived, entertained at the moment in a much more important talk than the Criminal Code. [[Rumors]] In his first appearance in this House he announced that he would limit the reform, that this reform would not be so broad, and that it would foster dialogue. I have to tell you, Minister, that you in this House that day failed to tell the truth, because the reform was as it was. It has been subjected in Parliament to an express procedure, where the dialogue for reasons of time has not had space, and they have also sought a trichinella, which is what they are doing in a normal way, to circumvent the procedures legally established for the processing of laws affecting fundamental rights and freedoms, and it is that the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled ninety amendments, which it has also done in the Senate, and thus not only contaminated the parliamentary procedure and made the work of the groups difficult, but it has circumvented the reports of the General Council, the Council of State, the Prosecutor's Office, which was just what it was looking for, what it was pursuing, what it is doing in a normal way. That is why we have to tell you that the Government's action in relation to this reform of the Criminal Code is a clear fraud of law, and together with that we have to say that we are facing unnecessary reform. There is no objective fact to indicate that this reform was needed. And we are also faced with an unjust reform, where the double measuring rod of the People's Party is evident: hard hand with the workers, with the stealthy shellfish, which they have introduced in the Senate, and hand extended to those above. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, you are insatiable, and not satisfied with the social cuts that you have made, with which you have created inequality, poverty and much suffering, you have decided with your legal reforms - the Penal Code one of them - to bring about a brutal cut in rights and freedoms. They are pursuing an extreme right-wing policy with which they are harshly punishing the majority of citizens. Having said that, if we stop to analyze the substance of its reform, it has clear signs of identity: a general increase in penalties, which means a widespread and unjustified increase in penalties in ordinary crimes, which by the way neither the minister nor the People's Group have known, wanted or been able to explain. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, no one has ever shown anywhere that the increase in custodial sentences translates into greater effectiveness or efficiency of the penal system. That is why we have to point out that we are faced with a clear example of criminal populism, which is what you, Minister, have practiced this morning, and a little bit of stubbornness would have to give you. [[Applauds]] But they have not had enough with the unjustified and unjustifiable increase in penalties, but have taken one more step. They have gone further and introduced in this reform a permanent, reviewable prison, which means restoring life imprisonment. Life imprisonment is incompatible and clashs head-on with the constitutional principles of re-education and reintegration of the sentenced person, as well as with the mandate of determination and certainty, since it incorporates an element of unpredictability. You know it perfectly well, but it doesn't matter, because what you're doing is pure, raw and hard ideology. They do not intend to justify it by parapetting or hiding behind a biased and interested interpretation of the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, or by setting examples of comparative law that have nothing to do with what you have introduced in this reform of the Criminal Code. Along the same lines is the supposed elimination of the faults; I say this because the most important ones are transformed into minor crimes, which exacerbates their criminal consideration, and the rest go as violations in the Law on Citizen Security, the Law Mordaza, with which citizens have much less guarantees. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to one essential point at this moment in my speech, to see if you can explain it. The Government's iron fist with regard to the toughening of sentences and life imprisonment - certainly when we had in force a reform that was formulated in 2010 in which penalties of up to forty years of full compliance appear; but you had to do that criminal populism - becomes a silk glove when it comes to tackling the fight against corruption in this reform of the Criminal Code. We are talking about the second problem for citizenship, which generates the discredit of politics and of those who are in public life at the service of citizenship, and which affects the heart of democracy itself. When reality required a forceful, clear and firm response to this reform, surprisingly the proposal made by the People's Party Government was not to put any penalty on corruption crimes; even for coerce and misappropriation they were lowered. Unbelievable, but true. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what happened. Throughout the parliamentary process, they realized that it was impossible and indecent to remain in that position. While it is true that you have accepted some amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and other parliamentary groups to increase penalties, it is no less true that this is clearly insufficient, and you know it; of course it is for my parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Minister, they have neither wanted nor want this reform to be a useful tool in the fight against corruption. One clear example is the illegal financing of political parties, one of the most serious illegal behaviours, because it alters the rules of democracy and participation on an equal basis. The response of the absolute majority of the People's Party is totally scandalous, to the point that anyone who receives or makes illegal donations to political parties will not be punished by imprisonment, only a fine. In order for the illegal donation to be imprisoned, it must be more than 500,000 euros or 100,000 euros if the donor is a foreigner. Certainly inexplicable, or perhaps in some papers is the explanation, you must certainly know it much better than the rest of the parliamentary groups in this House. For this reason, they should report to the public, to whom they should also explain that they have not received penalties such as special disqualification for employment or public office, profession or occupation, nor the prohibition of hiring with public administrations, as well as that they have not accepted the criminalization of unjust enrichment of authorities and officials...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u70	Mrs. Aguilar, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u71	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The position of the People's Party is far from desired and is difficult, very difficult to explain; I hope that the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group would do so now from the rostrum. In clear contrast to what has been said, the Criminal Code of the People's Party seeks to put an end to the social protest by maintaining the criminal sanction for the strikers and refusing to repeal article 315.3 of the Criminal Code, which had been demanded by parliamentary groups and trade unions. We are talking, by the way, about a criminal type that had not been applied until the arrival of the People's Party Government. If we add to everything so far expressed, if we add that crimes against public order are going to criminalize dissent and that in the matter of parole we return to the Franco code, we can conclude that this reform of the Criminal Code of the People's Party cuts rights and freedoms, restores life imprisonment and hardens the penalties, that is, they approach with it an authoritarian system far removed from the democratic system that we have and want to preserve.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u72	Mrs. Aguilar, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u73	I'm done, Mr. President. Moreover, it is not forceful against corruption. But don't worry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, we will repeal them sooner rather than later, because this government... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u74	Mrs. Aguilar, you have to finish. He already said he's gonna repeal it, so we're done.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u75	Mr. President, I'm done with one word. This Government began its mandate by lying to the citizens and now the citizens have started by turning their backs on them; they are finished. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aguilar. For the People's Group, Mr Barreda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming and welcoming to this House the entities and associations that accompany us, especially the families of victims of terrorism and victims of crimes that have particularly shocked Spanish society in recent years. Welcome. The plenary session of the Congress is now proceeding to the final adoption of the reform of the Criminal Code, a reform that involves a comprehensive update, attentive to new phenomena and new social demands. From its entry into force on 1 July we will have a better and more agile criminal system, a system that adapts our rules to the international legal framework, that decongests criminal justice by eliminating shortcomings of small entities and that gives criminal response in terms demanded of us by citizens, that is, an effective and proportionate response, to new forms of crime. As has been recalled here, the reform has had a long process with opposition from the opposition, an opposition that insists until the end on the caricature of the reform talking about punitive populism, cuts in freedoms and toughening of penalties, and a caricature that the reform denies with its only reading - something that is evident that some spokesmen today have not done - and that believes the unwillingness to agree that the opposition groups have faced the different parliamentary procedures. It is enough to examine the general part to understand it. In fact, a new penological scheme is introduced, incorporating the permanent prison that can be reviewed as a maximum penalty in the Penal Code, which has - you have no right to ignore or ignore it - with the support of two thirds of the Spaniards, with the endorsement of the Council of State, including illustrious socialists, and which respects Article 3 of the Treaty of Rome and the jurisprudence of the Court of Strasbourg in this matter. It's the same to you. They have placed the emphasis on disqualifying a penalty for crimes of exceptional gravity, the most serious, the most repugnant, the most social alarms produced and the greatest rejection: murders of minors; murders of persons with disabilities; murders with sexual assaults; terrorist murders; and magnicides. You continue to speak of degrading penalties and unconstitutional precepts, and try to disqualify the reform, but it is a reform that does not renounce the reinsertion of the sentenced person and responds to the security that citizens demand. It is a reform that puts the emphasis on justice, because it is fair that more serious conduct leads to more serious convictions. It is a reform that is attentive to citizens and their security, for which much of the speeches that have been heard in this House are incomprehensible. We believe that you are moving away from society with that political stance, a society that had been demanding this punishment for certain behaviors for a long time. Furthermore, we believe that they are moving away from the truth by trying to distort the content of the law. Also in this general part, different legal institutions are reviewed to make criminal justice more flexible, to provide more scope for judges, especially in the execution of minor sentences and, in particular, for perpetrators of crimes committed for the first time. You continue to be framed in your caricature, gentlemen of the opposition, you continue to oppose a modern reform that has tried to avoid automatism and rigidity in the application of criminal law and, above all, in the execution of sentences. After passing through the Senate, articles 48 and 84 abound in this sensitivity. Thus, mental disorder and intellectual disability must be taken into account in the prohibitions on going to or residing in certain places, and the term person with disabilities in need of special protection is adopted in the reform instead of the term incapable. We have defended and continue to defend this reform thinking not of doctrine or academic theory, but of people, in responding to their demands and in solving their problems. It is therefore a reform that emphasizes the protection of persons and property, their rights and freedoms, the protection of minors, the protection of women, a reform to combat corruption and corrupt people in particular. To all this you have opposed and continue to oppose yourselves, with singular ardour the Socialist Party, and listening little, by the way. The passage of the bill by the Senate has made it possible to improve the text submitted by Congress. The reform will make it possible to deal more effectively with repeated crime or multirecidence in crimes against property or property, crimes that have hitherto been considered of little economic importance, in many cases - in others they do - but which generate great disruptions and sensations of profound vulnerability and insecurity to their victims. The EUR 400 limit has been recovered to delimit less serious and minor offences, which provides legal certainty and precision in initiating proceedings, and convictions for minor offences will generate criminal record, which was not the case with the offences, and will therefore be recorded. The criminal type of theft, article 234, includes, as an alleged aggravating factor, the non-use of alarm or security devices and responds proportionately to the serious nature of the act, to the concern generated by thefts or thefts committed on farms or livestock farms or perpetrated by criminal organizations or groups engaged in the commission of crimes of this nature; the perpetrators integrated in them will be subject to a specific aggravating factor provided for both thefts and for the forceful theft of things. The aggravated type of article 242.2 of robbery with violence or intimidation committed in inhabited houses has also been extended to crimes committed in buildings or premises open to the public. This also responds to a clear social demand, especially clear in the case of traders and 1.5 million workers in the commercial sector. With regard to the aggravating of multirecidence, article 250 incorporates the aggravated modalities of the type of fraud, which also apply to offences of unfair administration and misappropriation, as is the case for theft in article 285.7. I do not need to stress, ladies and gentlemen, the social significance of gaining in effectiveness in the criminal struggle in the face of multirecidence in this type of crime. With regard to the special protection of persons, new criminal types are incorporated to prosecute conduct against freedom, dignity and respect for women: types of forced marriage, aggravated in the case of minors; stalking or harassment, defined as an offence against freedom; unauthorized disclosure of recordings or images; and non-use of electronic devices used to control penalties or precautionary and security measures. The new text of article 187 facilitates the persecution of those who exploit the prostitution of another person by enumerating cases in which such exploitation is considered to exist in any case, but without excluding residence from exploitation in cases other than those stated. Similarly to the types of hate and violence offences, which were reinforced to combat and prevent racist or xenophobic behaviour by protecting foreigners and minorities, gender-based discrimination has been incorporated into articles 511 and 512, i.e. discrimination committed by officials, professionals or employers in the performance of their activities. We believe that this is an important element in the fight against all forms of discrimination and, in particular, in the prevention of discriminatory actions that would not be covered by the reference to sex as a basis for them. As I said before, minors will also be better protected after the reform. Internet contacts are established to commit sexual offences or show pornographic material, and pages are planned to be removed or blocked with these content or to be used by persons with disabilities. Finally, in this section on the protection of persons, following the Senate proceedings, article 550 will consider acts of attack against teaching or health officials in the performance of their duties or on their occasion; and those convicted under article 607 for crimes of genocide will also not be able to carry out activities related to the teaching field, as was already envisaged for crimes of terrorism and against sexual freedom. In the fight against corruption, I must stress that the reform as a whole will make it possible to provide a criminal response to the corrupt in the terms demanded by society; that is, by seeing the entry into prison of the corrupt for the performance of their sentences, by removing them from politics and the administration with special disqualification penalties and by achieving the return of the illegitimately acquired. It is a question of protecting society decisively against this criminal phenomenon; and also against the criticism of those who did not walk - and you did nothing - and now say that what is done is insufficient. When you had occasion, you did nothing in this matter. [[Applauds.-A Member: That is what you tell the PP!-Several Members say words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u78	Wait a minute, Mr. Barreda. When Mrs Aguilar intervened there was silence on all the benches. I request the same silence to the socialist bench, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u79	Thank you, President. In the fight against corruption, penalties have been increased and criminal rates strengthened. There is a widespread increase in the penalties of special disqualification for employment or public office, as is the case in the crimes of administrative prevarication, infidelity in the custody of documents and the disclosure of secrets, law enforcement, influence trafficking, misappropriation and unfair administration committed by public officials, fraud and illegal sanctions and others. In the most serious crimes, the additional imposition - not alternative, but additional - of another penalty of special disqualification for the exercise of the right to vote is now added. In other words, the person convicted of the offence of corruption is prevented from obtaining a public office by election. This has been done in the crime of conspiracy, in the prevarication of public officials or in the trafficking of influence. And the crime of illegal party financing that so far did not exist has been incorporated. You'll know why you never incorporated him. So far, he didn't exist. In spite of your opposition to this and all of the above, the criminal responsibility of the political parties is maintained, gentlemen of the PSOE. They need to explain why they are opposed to that responsibility. [[Rumors]] The Senate procedure has made it possible to incorporate bribery offences into corruption offences in business. The aim is to criminalize the behaviour of those who pay bribes in order to obtain competitive advantages, both in the private sector and through the corruption of a foreign public official, both for their own benefit and for the benefit of third parties. Finally, with regard to confiscation, a key instrument for this ultimate objective of recovering what corrupt people illegally obtain, two new articles have been incorporated into the Criminal Procedure Act, which are recovered because of their substantive nature for the Criminal Code. It is the articles that regulate the confiscation of property, effects and profits arising from the pre-convicted criminal activity on the basis of relevant indications and certain presumptions. All this, I repeat, to achieve the recovery of the illicitly obtained by the corrupt. I do not want to end without mentioning the reform section dealing with new types of crime. The Senate has improved the accuracy of the types and legal certainty of offences against intellectual property, as does the incorporation of the reference to the risk to the life or health of individuals for offences against public health. The furtivism of shellfish-fishing species has been defined in article 335, and in other areas, such as abandonment and animal abuse, new behaviours are defined and penalties are aggravated, forest fires are also re-treated to increase penalties and introduce aggravated types in response to the behaviours that are most at risk, harm or social alarm. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. For all this, for this reform, thinking of people, thinking of citizens, we reiterate today the request for support to the House. The opposition, in particular from the PSOE, to a reform that responds to an extensive list of social demands and strengthens the capacity of justice to deal with new forms of crime remains incomprehensible. After year and a half of processing, you continue in caricature, disqualification and not why not. Today, we will support a reform at the service of citizens that responds to what Spanish society demands from its political and criminal justice representatives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Barreda. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply speaking to give consideration to the work that has been done in this House and in the Senate on the bill to reform the Criminal Code. As the debate has shown, much of the content of this project has a real impact on the daily lives of citizens, on economic life and on the defence of rights. I would therefore like to thank the associations representing victims of crime, victims of terrorism, the defence of intellectual property, the defence of nature, the environment, creators and commercial activities and distribution for the support they have given us all to ensure that this reform is in line with the real demands of Spanish society. I would also like to express my thanks to the parliamentary groups, for four hundred amendments have been adopted between the procedure of Congress and the Senate, which shows the very intense work that has been carried out; and also to the services of the House, the lawyers and the technical services, for the magnificent work that has been done. Ultimately, I want to highlight what I think is a general feeling. Since the adoption of the Criminal Code in this House, we have a better instrument for the protection of the rights and freedoms of society and of citizens, an adaptation to the response to new forms of crime in order to better protect those most in need, minors, victims of gender-based violence, the disabled, all those who need the strengthening of the rule of law. I therefore believe that today is a good day for our rule of law and for our democracy. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u82	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. - DRAFT CITIZEN SECURITY PROTECTION ORGANIZATION LAW. [[File number 121/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u83	Amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security. Firstly, for the Joint Group, of which there will be a number of speakers, Mrs Barkos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u84	Thank you, President. Indeed, the Upper House is returning this bill which in no way, by the way, and in this step has varied substantially. The bulk of the groups in this House, Geroa Bai among them, maintain the same position as last October, when all the opposition groups tabled amendments to return them. It is true that the return did not prosper that day; it was evident, as it is today that they are going to advance the law. But today as then I would like to leave in the "Diary of Sessions" the reflection that of course the majority group, the People's Parliamentary Group, does not attend the force of reason; yes, rather, the force of the absolute majority that today turn into an absolute majority. I would like to recall that with this adoption of organic law they expand the police power without establishing mechanisms of control or supervision. They restrict the exercise of freedom of peaceful assembly, expression and information, criminalize the legitimate right to demonstration. They have managed to be with this law I do not know if the astonishment of the world but of course that of all those international organizations that are dedicated to the defense of human rights. They all ask us, but obviously from the above, that we vote no, which is what we are going to do as Geroa Bai in the organic law voting procedure. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs Barkos. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a law on citizen security should serve to protect the citizen, whom he wants to speak to, who wants to exercise his freedom of expression, who suffers any kind of abuse, and also police abuse. A citizen security law should not be used to intimidate you, to prevent legitimate protest against abuse or corruption. A law on citizen security should serve to protect the fundamental rights of individuals: the right to peaceful assembly, the right to expression. A citizen security law should not serve to cut those rights justly. A law on citizen security should serve to make citizens feel free and secure. A law of citizen security should not serve to bury freedom under tons of coercion, prohibitions, fines, punishment, repression, at last. This is an unnecessary and unjust law, but it is above all a useless and brief law, because, even if you want to empty the streets, silence the protest, domesticate the demonstrations, you are late. The screams, the protest, the demonstrations have mutated, they have changed their appearance. They are now silent, subtle, implacable. We saw him last Sunday. The screams of indignation, the legitimate protest, the demonstrations charged with reason have taken a simple, seemingly harmless, but lethal form. With this simple weapon, an envelope and a ballot, we will bury this perverse law and, with it, its despotic absolute majority, which today will make it possible. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u88	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the most reactionary and repressive ideology, the consecration of a merely formal democracy and the violation of a large part of the most fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens now take the rank of law in this House. With the adoption today of the amendment of the Criminal Code by double section, that of Citizen Security and the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act in process, we are definitely headed to a police state where the aim is to silence and gag any glimpse of criticism, complaint, protest or social mobilization. From a single infestation, which Minister Wert would say, you take a giant step to place us further and further away from the more advanced countries of democracy and back us with premeditation to times when the population lived permanently in a state of surveillance and control. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not an isolated opinion of the Galego Nationalist Block. In addition to the majority of the groups in this House that we have already committed ourselves to repealing it as soon as the political situation changes, the pronouncements against this law range from all kinds of social human rights organizations to international bodies such as the Council of Europe and more recently the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, which through five special rapporteurs warns that it poses a threat to human rights and freedoms. The economic and social policy, or rather antisocial policy, which this government has unscrupulously practiced and which has led to the impoverishment and social exclusion of millions of people who continue to suffer brutal cuts in the face of deficit containment, has brought us here. The responsibility for this situation lies with the Government and what citizens have done has been to reflect their discomfort and their rejection of these austerid policies through social protest, by the way, in the vast majority of times in a peaceful manner and without notable incidents. The Government responds disproportionately by increasing punitive and punitive power, expanding the powers of the Security Forces and police discretion that will only generate greater arbitrariness and defencelessness of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking for months about this law, and the People's Party has not taken a step back, either in the Senate. Today the procedure for her approval is over, but with her...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u89	Mrs. Pérez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u90	I'm done. But with it does not end the protest or citizen mobilization. With or without law, citizens continue to be accompanied by indignation, reason and common sense, and that, ladies and gentlemen, you and no one can legislate. I'm telling you, they won't shut us up! Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Salvador Allende and Victor Jara have passed into history as two of the first mortal victims of neoliberalism and since then neoliberalism has needed violence and repression to impose itself. In fact, three necessary tools are approved here today for the Spanish Government, in order to equip the State with the necessary repressive instruments, such as the law on gags, which we are now debating, the Criminal Code and the new anti-terrorist measures. The Government knows that when the rights and freedoms of citizens are denied and when the welfare State is torn apart, society is outraged, protested and revolted and that is when the democratic State must be twisted, limiting freedom of expression and freedom of demonstration and institutionalizing the police State. In fact, this law will give the police arbitrary powers, limiting the democratic state, the rule of law. For example, within this perverse neo-liberal logic, instead of approving the paid dation, what happens is that repression is legalized for those who try to prevent evictions and criminalize people while speculative vultures are allowed to continue to get rich. In fact, the People's Party does not breach its agenda, nor does it just betray its ideology. This must be acknowledged, because only by recognizing it will we know the extent of the tragedy. They meet on foot together with the neoliberal bible, deploying here today also economic, judicial and repressive laws that form part of the same neoliberal logic. But they do not deceive us, it is a new strategy of totalitarianism of always, of fascism of always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Mr Errekondo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u94	In Euskal Herria, we have suffered for many years from the repressive policies of successive Spanish governments, and the Government has now decided to extend it to the rest of the State. The Government is annoyed that citizenship is manifested, that citizenship is protesting and expressing how it feels after it has been stripped of its most basic rights such as housing, such as health, education, dependency or social services, but also by the demands of its national rights. If this Government now dares to burst and attack fucking peaceful demonstrations for dignity, for human rights, what will it not dare after approving this reform? Let's hear from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party that there's no fucking thing I can do with people's dignity. The Government is immersed in a spiral of repression that seems to have no end to measures such as this reform of the Law on Citizen Security, the Criminal Code or the anti-jihadist law, and has therefore built this legal framework with the aim of expanding fear and gazing citizens in order to preserve their ultra-liberal model. But this is not just what we say, but also what the special rapporteurs of the UN Human Rights Commission say, who said a month ago, and I say it literally, that the reforms of the Citizens' Security Act, the Criminal Code and anti-jihadism threaten to violate the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. And they also denounce - coinciding with the assessment of the majority of society - that this is probably a response to the numerous demonstrations that are taking place. On the other hand, the ultra-right government, the People's Party, is annoyed by the fact that citizens know the truth and the reality, and that is why it intends to violate fundamental rights, in addition to those of demonstration and assembly, also those of opinion and those of expression. For this they apply the well-known proclamation of: The street is mine and here I command. In addition, they apply it in three stages: criminalizing the most committed citizens to expand the paralyzing fear, drowning them in a sea of fines and finally gagging them to silence the voice of the people's protest. And all this so that the People's Party government can tell the story in its own way, in its own way, behind a plasma screen or disguised as Caritas. That is why they have already begun to exert such repression against journalists and the media, something that we have suffered many years ago in Euskal Herria with Egin, Egin Irratia, Egunkaria, etc., which after suffering ten years of calvary, torture and imprisonment were finally acquitted. In conclusion, what is here is a rule of law that conforms with a police state and that in the face of any kind of social or political dissent its only response is repression and more repression. But don't be mistaken here because the People's Party is alone, it's only because the reform of the Citizens' Security Act has the days counted and we all know here that all the opposition political parties have committed themselves to abrogating it at the first opportunity. Let's hope so, by the way. Finally, Mr Fernández Díaz, remove your police officer from the streets of Euskal Herria and all the streets of the rest of the state because what we are clear is that only from a sovereign Euskal Herria will we build a society of people with full civil and political rights.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Errekondo. Mr Olabarría has the floor for the Basque Group. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u96	From the seat, not because of the lack of relevance of the rule, but because of the lack of mobility of the Member speaking to you, I would like to comment, Minister, that this law has begun badly its processing. We knew two particularly unfortunate teletypes or statements made by you, one of which called us ignorant of all those who held critical positions with the material content of the norm and its ontological foundation. I will give less relevance to this reflection on your part, it may be that you have the heritage of truth and that the others, in fact, we are ignorant, we are wrong or do not finish seeing the relevance of the measures articulated here. The other statement, which has unfortunately been enshrined in the Senate, is that in the end what the Criminal Code considers a crime - we do not know at this time what has happened with the Penal Code given the confusion that we have previously glossed over on the processing by ninety self-amendments that your group has presented to the draft Criminal Code that has emerged from this House - which is the illegal deportation of foreigners, you are legalizing it not in the Penal Code itself but in a different law, in the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizen Security, where, by a somewhat peripheral but perfectly understandable wording, you are legalizing what is called a hot return. When they are legalizing the hot return, Minister, they are engaging in several legally inadequate, unacceptable operations. They are in violation of the Vienna Convention in relation to the power or right of those who may have the status of refugee, political persecution or asylum, the possibility of claiming at the time of penetration into the Spanish State, penetration into the Spanish State which is not well understood because you have consecrated a meta-legal concept that fills us with perturbation to all, which is that of the elasticity of the borders. It is an expression you used in the Commission in one of your appearances. Yes, you - I can reproduce it because I have here the "Diary of Sessions" - talked about the elasticity of the borders. Are Ceuta and Melilla elastic? Are those of the other nations that make up the Spanish State, a plurinational State, elastic too? This would serve to engage in other kinds of debates that are not relevant at this time. Apart from this, what constitutes a criminal offence is legalized in the current Criminal Code, which is illegal deportation through the possibility of legalizing or regularizing what is called a hot return. Then there was a bad start in this area, Minister, but it continued to get worse. Here three operations are committed that are constitutionally doubtful. I do not know whether this law is going to be the subject of the presentation of various remedies of unconstitutionality, but I can almost certainly tell you that it is. First, the dimension given to the concept of citizen security, which is identified with the anachronistic concept of public order. I am not going to use Franco public order as some Members or spokespersons have done but we could be talking about a concept similar to Franco public order. The Spanish Constitution, Minister, Mr Conrado, refers to citizens' security in an instrumental way in two precepts: Article 16 and Article 104. Article 104 does not enshrine fundamental rights, 16 yes, but 16 states that citizen security is instrumental and linked to the exercise of other fundamental rights. As long as this bill elevates the status of citizen security to the character of an ontologically superior right to other fundamental rights, the exercise of any of the rights between articles 14 and 29 of the Constitution, which are those that enshrine fundamental rights, can be strictly discretionaryly restricted by the governing authority. See if the constitutional perversion committed by this project is profound: it raises to the ontological and legal rank citizen security or public order to the point that it is a conditioning element of the exercise of all fundamental rights, which are particularly that of manifestation, freedom of expression and free participation in public affairs. The second perversion that has not been corrected, Minister, but that has worsened in the Senate - I do not know why the Senate has the propensity to worsen the texts emanating from this House -, the second operation that is being committed, I said, is the seizure of public space. Taking over the public space as long as the public space is no longer a space, as constitutionally it is configured, of interaction between citizens from a perspective of tolerance and respect for each other, but that the public space is a space in which citizens can only do what the law allows them to do. This limitation of the nature of public space limited or limited by legal requirements is also a limiting element in the exercise of the fundamental rights provided for in the Spanish Constitution itself, articles 14 to 29. Public space is no longer a space of interaction, it is not a space of relationship, it is not a space of citizens, it is a space of laws where you can only do what the laws allow. Thirdly, the right to effective judicial protection is violated as long as the faults of the Criminal Code are excluded, depriving the defendants, depriving the citizens - I thank you, Minister, for illustrating Mr Conrad so much but I can assure you that Mr Conrad is a very fine lawyer who does not need any particular illustration in this matter - of the guarantees of the criminal process, a process that is much more guaranteed than the contentious-administrative process. Do not tell me that it is not because 40% of the offences now become crimes that can be even less serious crimes, not just minor ones. Sixty per cent of the offences are to be converted into administrative offences, the processing of which for anyone who wishes to challenge them or who considers that he or she has not committed such administrative injustice in this case, will have to resort to an administrative procedure in which the administrative process must be exhausted through the appropriate raising or review procedures and resort to a less guaranteed jurisdiction than the penal one but which is also subject to judicial fees such as the administrative litigation jurisdiction. From this perspective, we are also faced with a problem of relativization or limitation of the right to effective judicial protection. I do not have time to talk about the conduct that is characterized as administrative offences that refer to the right of demonstration fundamentally. For example, things as curious as manifesting themselves by concealing the physical aspects of the protestor, which is not in the organic law that provides for the right of demonstration and assembly and other multiple limitations that we could go on glossing that credit the three constitutional perversions that I have commented to you. In what context is this rule approved, Minister? In a context where the citizen mobilization against the rules establishing structural reforms, taking advantage of an euphemistic qualification that you usually use, are causing, given the cuts in rights, privatizations and limitations of the system of public freedoms and fundamental rights, movements of social mobilization that through this law are intended to limit or at least to control. From this perspective, being this the philosophical foundation of a law of these characteristics, I remain with the previous one, with that of the year 1992. It was not a good law, it was already qualified as the law of kicking at the door, and it had aspects that were declared partially unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, but to reform this law we cannot make it more damaging to the system of fundamental rights and public freedoms provided for in the Constitution. Moreover, it is a law that contradicts international conventions ratified by the Spanish State such as the Vienna Convention or the Fourth Protocol to the European Charter of Human Rights in relation to foreigners. What is being done with foreigners at this time is manifestly contradictory to all the international treaties signed by the Spanish State, Minister, and you should know that. It is legalizing the hot return, it is legalizing on its own terms. But what is also being done not only with foreigners, but with Spanish citizens, is a limitation in which, by virtue of manifestly discretionary actions, the Administration that protects public order or public security, call it as it pleases, can limit the system of fundamental rights and public freedoms. Of course for this journey, Minister, there was no need for any reform of the sanctioning activity or the punitive activity of the Administration. What is the only thing that has been reasonably acceptable or in this bill? It is respect for the titles of competition that belong to certain autonomous communities that have integral competences in the field of citizen security and have integral police officers. It's over, Mr. President. Here, there has been parliamentarianism and there have been possibilities for consensus and the competences of the Mosso d'Esquadra, the Ertzaintza and the respective councils or departments of the interior are maintained and respected. We shouldn't ask for this in exchange for anything. This should be a constitutional requirement and should be accepted without any transaction in return. This has been respected. Moreover, Minister, they have not made a good law and not only have not made a good law, but it has worsened in the Senate with the consecration of some of the perversions I have commented to you. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. The Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy has the floor, Mr Martínez Gorriaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Fortunately, I do not have a mobility problem like Mr Olabarría, but my speech will be brief and I will do it from the seat. Minister, I have heard you in this House assume that Spain has no notable public security problems and that is something that, by the way, is meritorious in a society that has been subjected to a very long, very deep crisis and in some really brutal social segments. However, it is true that people have behaved with a civicism that I hope would have had on many occasions those who run the institutions. You bring this law here - it is something that we have raised other spokesmen of my group - and if we do not have problems with citizen security, if we have a crime below that of other countries around us in a better situation than we do, why does this law need? Is it fear of citizenship? Is this a preventive law? Is this a pre-emptive law in case this gets out of hand? Because this law puts fundamental freedoms in check. [[The lady]] It's no joke what we're talking about. Mr Olabarría also said this - I join his reflection - when he was talking about what is happening, for example, with the hot return of foreigners and that sort of thing that they are trying to consecrate here, by the way, with non-compliance with international agreements signed by Spain many years ago. Beyond that, it is that the very amendments that have been passed in the Senate recognize that this law includes attacks on public freedoms and that, therefore, it must be applied in a prudent way - they say, in quotes -. A new paragraph has been added to article 4.1, which reads as follows: In particular, the provisions of chapters III and V shall be interpreted and applied in the most favourable way for the full realization of fundamental rights and public freedoms, in particular the rights of assembly and demonstration, freedom of expression and information, freedom of association and the right to strike. Let's see, is it proper for a state of law, a democracy, to make a law that the law itself provides for to be applied in a favorable way, because nothing less than that they are undermining the rights of assembly, demonstration, expression, information, freedom of association and the right to strike? To put it briefly, because it is a favor that we would do to someone who is listening to us, it is that this is not a democratic law, it is an authoritarian law, it is a law that would have been proper to a State in transition, with a semi-democracy, a dictatorship or whatever they want to call it. It is not a democratic law and this is its main problem, and this is what makes it absolutely impossible to support it, not that there are specific, detailed issues that we do not share. It's no wonder I've known her popularly as a law gag, because that's what she is. Finally, it will be a law, such as the reform of the Criminal Code with which it is related, which creates legal insecurity and will last for as long as your absolute majority lasts, but of course the efforts you make to turn this defective democracy into an efficient oligarchy really scares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u99	For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary procedure concludes today with the return from the Senate of a law which, above all, has a characteristic and which is absolutely unnecessary. There was no need to process this legislation. Nor is it a law dear to the people. There are surveys in which the majority of the population leaves black on white, very clear, which is not one of the fundamental concerns. The Ministry's own data on the number of demonstrations and the very few of them ending with incidents also show that it is an absolutely unnecessary law. In fact, the processing of this law begins at a certain point in the legislature in which the citizen mobilization almost close to the Parliament, but who surrounded the Parliament was the Ministry of the Interior itself with the fences that it placed abroad. The situation has evolved over a long time and today the citizen mobilization has dropped its intensity a lot, surely because we are all aware that in the end the real strength and the real power is in the ballot boxes, ballot boxes that have already given a powerful flap to the People's Party, which will remain alone today also in this House defending this law. [[Rumors]] Yeah, it's gonna be the People's Party alone. It is a photograph that is made in solitaryness by the People's Party defending this law that should have been perfectly left in the drawer, since that tremendous alarm with which the Government and the economic powers contemplated the citizen mobilization that took place at the beginning of the legislature has been turned towards quieter waters. However, Minister, do not think that the processing of this law will end the social protest. The protest will continue, even in much more imaginative ways. Look, on the platform we're not criminals it's occurred to him to even make a hologram campaign to continue the mobilization. [[Show a sign]] The mobilization, Minister, will continue and the protest will continue, whether you want it or not, even if the government passes this law today in Congress. For our part, we keep alive with all the groups in the House, except the People's Group, our commitment to repeal the law as soon as the correlation of forces in this House changes, sooner rather than later. As long as citizenship gives us the strength to be in this House, our vote will be ready to repeal this law. Today we are discussing the amendments that come from the Senate, some of them - already mentioned by Mr Martínez Gorriarán, who was talking about Amendment No 4 - give the definitive character to this law by making interpretation the most favourable to the full realization of fundamental rights. If this amendment is introduced by the Senate, it is because there are perverse interpretations against fundamental rights and freedoms. It introduces an amendment to article 7 on the duty of personal cooperation of the administrative police, i.e. tightens the character of the law. He introduced another amendment to article 15, eliminating the need for authorization by the authority to enter public buildings and agencies, a curious tightening of the character of the law. Article 25 extends the legal obligations to the means of transport. And in the articles that establish very serious, serious and minor faults, a series of technical corrections are made that in no case favor a lighter interpretation of the law, but quite the contrary. Practically, they only introduce an amendment favourable to the interpretation of the law in the statute of limitations of offences, which are somewhat curtailed. It is the only element of non-hardening of this law. They even have to change the entry into force because, given the accidental nature of the law, the part that excludes the entry into force of some articles is finally eliminated and they will make the law come into force for the majority of precepts on 1 July and for one, on which I am going to stop, will come into force the day after the publication in the Official Gazette of the State. Then there is the star amendment, Mr Minister, of this bill, which is the first final provision: the application of exceptionality to the regime of Ceuta and Melilla, the legalization of hot returns, Mr Minister, a real spur in the legal process. First of all, because the Government, which is the promoter of this amendment of the law, did not dare to put the amendment directly into the draft law, but brought it in, despite the fact that the issue was already long and planned, through an amendment by the People's Group on the last day that amendments could be tabled. Since the text was not operationally good, the People's Group itself changed it in the draft that came out of this House to go to the Senate. They drafted another text under the pressure of many NGOs, international organizations and even the Catholic Church and the Senate today gives us a new wording of this amendment to legalize hot returns, hot returns that are not private and originating from their government, but have also been executed by previous governments. However, Minister, nothing you intend to resolve with that amendment is resolved with the wording that comes from the Senate; quite the contrary. It does not come into the question of the legal fiction that implies your definition of border operations, the definition of border you apply and the orders given to the Civil Guard. The borders, Minister - I say it again for the umpteenth time - are regulated in international treaties and rules of compulsory compliance by the Spanish State and not in the directives and orders given to the Civil Guard. Minister, you as a government are trying to legalize in this process the complete mockery of the procedures laid down in the Aliens Act, procedures established under international law and the treaties signed with Spain. It's very simple. When an alien is detected on the border line, he or she must be subjected to a series of formalities which are required by law and which this amendment does not modify. He has to be transferred to the police station, he has to be identified and then returned, but in any case the law always has to guarantee fundamental issues: legal assistance, the interpreter in his case, recourse to a decision that is contrary to his interests and in any case judicial guardianship. Well, none of this exempts the Civil Guard in this wording that is given, but quite the opposite, introduces greater confusion. In the end, you leave everything in the conflict between the consciousness of the Civil Guard, which has to comply with international regulations - as is said in this amendment - and the orders you give from your ministry, and which are orders that run counter to the Spanish legal order and will not find coverage in this amendment. In addition, with the wording that has been given you leave unanswered issues. What will happen to swimmers who are not detained on the border line, which is what the text of the law says? Or what will happen to immigrants who arrive to the pennies, to the islets that are of national sovereignty and that are not part of the line? They've already entered national territory. What's going to happen to them? What decisions will the civilian guards have to make when faced with these situations? Minister, you do not resolve anything with this last-minute emergency wording that you intended to give to the amendment after your passage through the Senate. In short, our parliamentary group is going to maintain its vote against, as it cannot be otherwise and by sharing it with the rest of the parliamentary groups, this bill. Once again we will make public our total and absolute commitment to repeal this bill as soon as the correlation of forces in this House changes, sooner rather than later. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u101	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u102	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is little to say that this has not been said yet, because practically everything has already come out. You continue in your thirteen in things that we have already indicated to you. I will make reference to some that have already been said, to those that have not been said and to some that are of pure common sense. You continue without interconnecting the international databases with the integral police of the autonomous communities. The Spanish state is the only state that - we don't know why - has two Interpol licenses. One could be used by state bodies and the other by autonomous integral bodies, but you insist on maintaining a police model of the twentieth century, not to mention the nineteenth century. If one thing marks the action of crime - especially organized crime, but all of it - and terrorism is precisely the use of new technologies, but you keep the information of the police that is on the ground with which you have actions and contacts at international level isolated. Does this make sense to you? Not us. They have not accepted things of pure common sense, such as the plasticization of the national identity document being in Braille so that it can be intelligible to the blind population. We didn't set them a deadline or conditions for it to be something that one day was done, but they also said no. We don't understand why. Why this lock? Perhaps it is an ad hominem lock - in this case, we could say ad Catalano factions - and it is simply said that not to amendments of common sense perhaps because the presenter presents them. Sanctions. As already mentioned, I will be brief. They have improved some deorbited by actions linked in the background to freedom of expression and demonstration. We still consider that they are still disproportionate. We also say things from the point of view of police technique. We are not only guarantors, but we also understand the need to exercise security well. For example, we ask that the theme of the face covered in the demonstrations be regulated. When someone goes with a pass to a demonstration, Minister, think badly. In this case we are not talking about a guarantee issue, but about a security issue, and incredibly you continue to say no. You don't understand. Mention aside deserve the hot returns. Minister, you know better than I do. A person is a subject of rights, when he enters a country called democracy: to seek political asylum, right to appeal, attention, an interpreter. You have said - it seems very good to us - that you plan to set up an office out there so that people who want to apply for political asylum, etc., can do so. Do you know what's going on? That this does not change anything at all; the person who enters the territory, with or without office, will continue to have this right, which is the one you deny you. By accepting the curious and certainly interesting concept of flexible border you recognize that the border line is already within Spanish territory; otherwise said, these people, even before reaching the barriers themselves, are in Spanish territory. It doesn't make sense. Not only NGOs, or human rights groups, have said this, but the Catholic Church itself: democracy is not just something that is proclaimed, that is said to have, but it has to be demonstrated every day with deeds, with actions. You with this fact, not recognizing the rights of people as you should recognize them, as everyone is telling you, do not act in this norm as a democracy. We like to quote everything. They have accepted an amendment in the Senate and we are grateful. It refers to the powers of port police, although you have made us change it for administrative police, but we already understand what it is - we appreciate it -; of course this cannot change our global position, which almost out of dignity can be no other than a vote against. In this sense, we will do so. [[Finish your speech by saying words in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u103	For the Socialist Group, Mr Sánchez Amor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u104	Thank you, Madam President. This is the other side of the debate we have had on the Criminal Code, the administrative side. Although it seems paradoxical, I wanted to start with a thank you, almost with a congratulations to the Government and the Group of the European People's Party for their sincerity, for their frankness, for their frontality, because this law is indeed exactly what it seems. There has not been the slightest attempt to disguise it or disguise it, it is exactly how these citizens' entities that my fellow speakers, those organizations of jurists, those international human rights organizations have perceived it, because sometimes in the laws to simplify caricatures are created in the press or in the public opinion. Well, the law seems to be based on the worst caricature of what has been done about a law during these years. If the minister had wanted to call it law gag nobody would have missed absolutely nothing, because we all agree - I am the last to intervene from the opposition - we all have the same view of the law. I am not going to insist on an argument that my colleagues have reiterated, but there is no objective reason for the Government to push this law at this time. I will not quote the CIS - it has been abundantly pointed out - but there is no citizen demand that requires this type of law, there are no loopholes in our legislation that allow some of the practices that are defined as sanctions to escape because they fit perfectly into existing types of the Penal Code; therefore, it is appropriate to ask why and why now. Why are you reacting like this now? Because this is a reactive law, it's not a preventive law. Against what does this law react and why does it react now? As my colleagues have said - I will say in other words - it reacts against a critical, actively critical state of opinion, against the policies of cuts. This is the administrative version of the shock doctrine. It tries to fear to set the policies of disassembly of the welfare state. It tries to neutralize a citizen's response that has been - it has been said here and I want to insist on it - impeccable. In a country where the middle class, the working class, has suffered and is suffering what it is suffering, we must congratulate ourselves on the very high degree of civicism in its response to the policies of the Government and on the tone of the protest that this society has gone through. Therefore, do not focus, Minister, on that ridiculous minority of violent - ridiculous in both ways, in number and in attitude - because that is another way of delegitimizing protests. It does not hang, because everyone knows that the protests in Spain have been absolutely peaceful in their entirety, and only after some demonstrations have occurred have there been incidents, and also in very few, as my colleague Mr Sixto said. This law is therefore a logical complement to the dismantling policies of the social state, of which the People's Party is making a flag in this legislature. This works very fat: there is a cut, there is a protest, there is a neutralization of the protest through sanctions; there are new cuts, there is a more weakened protest because people have a logical fear of being fined crazy, and so they are trying to deactivate the citizen's reaction. It's the doctrine of shock, in its administrative facet. The evidence is easy to understand, Minister, because it is official statistics. Ms. Cifuentes multiplied the fines for assembly and demonstration between 2011 and 2012, following the entry of the People's Party Government. The rest of the government delegates, as they did not have to campaign for personal promotion like Mrs Cifuentes, only multiplied the number of sanctions by five. Notice that this was done not with this law but with the previous ones, so can anyone imagine what the PP could do by having this Earth-to-Earth missile in his hands, with the conception that this government has of the protests? Therefore, I understand that this machine of slaughtering banners into which the law has become does not like you, because you have a really strange conception of what citizen protest is. I would like to say one thing, Minister, so that the position of the People's Party can be understood. When a citizen gets up early at home, with the children, with his family, when he puts on a green or white shirt or no shirt, when he folds a banner and rides on a bus in Puertollano or takes the Vallecas metro to go protest to the center of Madrid, the whole state has to put itself at the service of his right to scream, we like or do not like what that citizen shouts. [[Applauds]] All the springs of the state, those of traffic, those of health, those of the police, have to be not against it, but at the service of that person who comes to shout at the center of Madrid things that, perhaps, we do not share or like. Those enormous avenues that we have made for so many years for democracy must be open, hasty, not only for the people who manifest themselves with bishops, minister, but also for demonstrations without bull and without plenary indulgence, in those in which, without bishops, the protestor is a sacred citizen and his rights are sacred, and the State must be at the service of that right to protest. The ideological bases of the law - it has been said - are to unbalance the balance freedom-security; you give a hand to the balance, they add something similar - I do not want to anger Professor Olabarria - to the old concept of public order, a kind of generic authorization to end the protests, and they create strange elements, such as that idea of citizen tranquility. The preponderant element here is law, not security, let alone that strange concept of citizen tranquility. The overriding element is the right, and security must be at the service of those rights as a purely instrumental element. The centre is the fundamental right to demonstrate or to meet. The centre is not security, but an instrument. Therefore, the ideology underlying his law is that of the obedient and unprotested citizen, a citizen who has the impression of being surrounded by an anarchic society that assaults him absolutely in every circumstance. That is why it has been said, and it has also been said with the discussion of the Criminal Code, that every ambiguity, every generality, every bad wording in the law at the end is an open door to arbitrariness. Do you believe, by setting an example, that it is the same for the government delegate to judge that a judge when a lack of consideration has occurred with a police officer? Of course not, but this kind of rule, which brings punishment and punishment into the administrative sphere, will ultimately be interpreted by the same administration that is suffering the alleged aggression. That conservative and fearful ideology, which sees it as a sort of anarchic society around it, translates into a sanctioning system - I will not insist very much - which has an essential axis, removing judges from the middle. You say that with this system is punished less. No, no; with this system it is punished more, but above all it is punished with less guarantees. It seems that you would like to have a court of law and order, and as you do not say: I remove judges from the proceedings and bring the right of citizens to the scope of the ministry. This means that first you have to appeal, pay a lawyer and pay court fees if you want to see your right protected. You have made a battling of sanctioning rules in which these ghosts are reflected, very much in line with the present day. There is a top blanket clause, a Greenpeace clause, a Femen clause, an okupa clause, an eviction clause; syringes, cundas, wikileaks, botellon. They were telling their colleagues in the Commission - let me be a joke - that only a small Nicolás clause is needed to have a complete picture of the current situation in recent months. [[Applauds]] I want you and your group to understand one thing well. Does that mean that we consider that these conducts do not deserve punishment? No; some will deserve it, but it will have to be criminalized with all the guarantees a citizen must have, rather than the way it is being done. There is a certain overprotection of the security forces. The law says that images cannot be taken not only from the police, nor from the authorities; I believe that the press should reflect on these circumstances. There is a risk of having two sanctions-intensity regimes depending on whether or not there is an integral police force, and I believe that this can create difficulties in implementation. Let's go to the Senate. What comes from the Senate is proof of your bad conscience. I am not going to insist much because my colleague Sixto has already explained how this strange amendment of the Aliens Act is born, which prevents the passage through the General Council of the Judiciary. You will have to hear here what you did not want to read from the General Council of the Judiciary, even if you send all immigrants home, which is your way of solving this problem when you talk about it. We all know that there has been exponential growth of people coming from conflict zones. Melilla's CETI is 80% of people with Syrian origin. Half of Syrians have applied for refugee status. We know that there is an unconditional right assumed by Spain in international treaties to manage individually each of these requests for refuge; moreover, next door we have the pressure - difficult to handle, we recognize it - of immigrants for economic reasons. You intend to provide security for the security forces in dealing with these issues. We agree that the security forces need to have elements that allow them not to be pending, in addition to their difficult work, to have any kind of legal complaint or lawsuit. You create a mechanism, which is what you call rejection at the border but which we all simply call hot return, which is a shortcut and absolutely complicates the issue. Look, that figure, let's call it what you and we call it, it's not in international law. As my colleague Sixto said, this is like pregnancy: you are pregnant or you are not pregnant. What cannot be claimed is that you are in Spain and outside Spain; if you are inside Spanish territory you have to open an individual file, expulsion or asylum and refuge. The hot return or the rejection at the border is a simple, in fact, non-procedural way; with which we leave the security forces - it is one of the issues that worries us most about the Senate - at the foot of the horses with the wording that has been given to it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u105	Mr. Sánchez Amor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u106	I'm done, Madam President. This law will enter into force on 1 July, but I have already announced - other colleagues have said - that it will be another of those laws that are put in line for their most immediate repeal, because the opposition is determined to act in defense of that person who rises early in Ciudad Rodrigo, who puts on a green or white shirt and who comes to Madrid to feel, simply, citizen and not subject. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u107	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Amor. For the People's Group, Mr Escobar.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u108	Thank you, Madam President. The Minister of the Interior is accompanying us in the important debate on this law that we are bringing here today. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats I would like to speak from the certainty, from the calm, Mr Sánchez Amor, that this law which we have adopted today is a step forward for coexistence. It represents the best commitment to the freedoms and rights of all Spaniards, apart from being a clear reinforcement of our democracy. The Senate has also done a good job that has once again constituted one against the People's Group, also in the Senate. From the serenity - I do not want to lose that tone - of reason we have seen how the left, the opposition as a whole, has gone from the trench speech, from the t-shirt speech, from the hologram speech, as we have seen here, to the simple exhaustion. There hasn't been an argument here. Criticism of this law is not based on reasons, ladies and gentlemen, but on unreasonably; it is based on nightly labels, on false ideological excuses. I want to make a special mention of the lords of Amaiur. It was others who repressed, it was others who gagged in Spanish lands, it was others who murdered. That's the real gag we'd have to banish, gentlemen of Amaiur. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, after the banners, the soflamas, the arguments that we have heard, in the end what is left, what is going to be left is a good law. You - I am fundamentally referring to you Socialists - should give in to the evidence that this law that we are going to pass is much better than the current one, and I will argue that. Spain will be freer because it will be safer. Gentlemen of the left, the only gag we raise is for violence. Violence must have a gag; punishment for the violent, coexistence for all. This law protects, ladies and gentlemen, the protestor, the passerby, the striker but also the worker, the protester, the listener, the tourist, the distributor, the child, the grandfather. Last days a legitimate March for dignity ended with arrests, by violent actions of a few outraged. That's what we're talking about, that's what we have to try to avoid, and for that we have to equip democrats with mechanisms. This project, Mr de CiU, follows a parliamentary mandate that you yourself proposed in July 2014. This law is the result, among other things, of that mandate, of that proposal which you have put forward, and to all of you I say to you: more than eighty amendments have been incorporated into this draft. Apart from those amendments by the Socialist Group and all the groups, we have very important positive reports; I am referring to one, that of the Council of State, which expressly mentions that the law establishes an appropriate balance between the two main principles: freedom and security, security and freedom. That is what the Council of State says. [[Applauds]] In addition, the Upper House - we are talking about the debate in the Upper House, about what comes from the Senate - incorporates amendments that you are going to oppose. The representative of the United Left also seems uncomfortable that we have incorporated into the law amendments of the Workers' Committees and the UGT, which result in chapters 3 and 4 being interpreted and applied in the most favourable way for rights of assembly, demonstration, freedom of association and the right to strike. They're also going to vote against that. I stop at an amendment in which we have to make a point of reflection, the famous Ceuta and Melilla. I will read it to you; I will read it to those on the left, those on the right and those on the center, and you yourselves judge. The amendment, and consequently what has been incorporated into the law, is as follows: Aliens who are detected on the border line of the territorial demarcation of Ceuta or Melilla, while trying to overcome the elements of border containment to cross the border irregularly, may be rejected in order to prevent their illegal entry into Spain. It doesn't end here. We have added: In any case, the rejection will be carried out in accordance with the international human rights and international protection rules to which Spain is a party. We add - this is unusual -: Applications for international protection will be formalized in the designated places at border crossings and will be processed in accordance with the rules on international protection. What's left here? Of course, borders have to be protected. Borders will be protected, as has always been done, while respecting the international norm. There is still one step forward, which the minister explained here in the debate of the law: that the offices are already in operation at the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior, have already been inaugurated in Ceuta and Melilla. This has meant, among other things, that the United Nations has already assessed this measure. This is the reality. What's wrong with that? That we're defending the borders? It'd be better. We do so in a manner that respects human rights. What is the problem with this amendment? I ask them what's the problem. It is what needs to be done, an exercise in democracy, as it must be. I continue with some issues that I think are important to highlight. Of the Basque Nationalist Party - Mr Esteban, who is here as the sole and isolated representative of his group - twenty-six amendments have been incorporated. In a dialectic effort, customary in Mr Olabarria, he said that in 1992 the Basque Nationalist Party abstained in a law that was far worse. In this we accept amendments, they are incorporated into the text and in the end the result is that the Basque Nationalist Party votes against. Why? It has nothing to do with legislative technique or ethics, as Mr Olabarria would say. That has to do with the fact that this law is of the People's Party, and you are in a hurry or complex to vote with it. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo, are you going to rush me too?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u109	Mr. Esteban, please. Keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u110	All of this I am saying with the utmost respect and affection to all Members of Parliament, as is the case in Congress. [[Rumors]] I will make a very brief and final comparative reflection between the law of 1992 in force, that of the Socialist Party, and ours. That's 23 years of law. This in itself requires that the current law incorporate all the jurisprudence, for example, which has been arguing that the constitutional rights of citizens must be protected. The need to provide an appropriate response to certain acts that would go unpunished today following the reform of the Criminal Code must be incorporated into the law; an example, a struggle in a demonstration today, would be an offence of attack. What is more sensible, that this coercion, in the event of it, is punished as an administrative offence or that we apply a prison sentence? It is much wiser to apply the administrative sanctioning regime. For that is what we are talking about, applying the response provided to the violation, to the violence that can be committed. Socialists, we move from the law of kicking at the door of the Socialist Party to the law of protected domicile, which is that of the People's Party; we move from the indiscriminate identifications - 11 million - of the Socialist Party to the limited identifications provided for in this law; we move from the massive searches to the individual controls and regulated by this law; we move from the freedom granted to the protected freedom, which is the one established in this law. Socialists, with the utmost affection, our mark today and always is freedom; yours have not yet found it, ours we have made clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end now, Madam President, by preserving coexistence; protecting the normal functioning of the institutions, of Congress or of any Parliament; guaranteeing the basic services of the community of neighbours; ensuring the free exercise of public rights and freedoms is not left-wing or right-wing, but simply democratic. That is what we are trying to do, to provide ourselves with a law, which is how democracy is expressed, so that the rights and freedoms of all are then guaranteed. Are everyone's rights and freedoms protected by looking elsewhere when there are violent acts on our streets? Is it enough to shake the flag of good offices, when the vandalistic acts in recent years in Spain have risen to 46 million euros? Do we leave unanswered - attentive to this - the more than a thousand cases of air vandalism that have occurred in Spain in recent years? Do we leave unanswered demonstrations - mostly peacefully developed, but exceptionally violent in some cases - that have injured 1,400 between 2012 and 2014? Do we leave that unanswered? They must have a response provided to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u111	Mr. Escobar.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u112	I'm done, Madam President. The citizens ask us, they ask us, that these behaviors be sanctioned. As a last thought, this law - I say for legal scholars - improves judicial control, but improves judicial control from the logic of the rule of law. Violent conduct must have a proportionate response to the offence committed: the most serious is punished by the Criminal Code, the slightest by the administrative offence. All such responses must have judicial guardianship, that of the Criminal Code in the criminal jurisdiction, and administrative sanction in the administrative-contentious jurisdiction. That speech that the contentious judges are worse off than the penal ones I don't give for good. Jurisdiction works in a bloc, and it is the one that will protect the acts that emerge from here. I definitely ended up with two thanks. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation and congratulate the Minister of the Interior, not because he is here but because he and the Secretary of State in the process of this law have followed an example of humility, rigour and dialogue so that at every stage of the law those issues that objectively improved it would be incorporated. Secondly, I would like to thank all the organisations, associations and universities that have contributed and that have allowed us to participate in debates, sometimes hard, Mr Sánchez Amor, but always respectful.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u113	Mr. Escobar.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u114	John Locke said, "Where there is no law, there is no freedom." Ladies and gentlemen, this law is above all a conquest of freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u115	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Once this lengthy process of this draft organic law on the protection of citizens' security has been completed, I would like to thank you for the discrepancy that has finally arrived this day. I thank the services of the House, the Congress and the Senate, and all the parliamentary groups - I insist, from very different political positions - that have also contributed to this law, with which they have expressed a coincidence that if they get enough votes they will repeal it. I am absolutely convinced that when this law comes into force, from the first of July onwards, freedom will be effectively guaranteed. This law defines, for the first time and following the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, the concept of citizen security as a legal asset that is at the service of the fundamental right of freedom. That's what I want to make clear. And for the first time in this law things that were not regulated so far are regulated: indiscriminate ethnic raids; retention, that is between detention and freedom that was not regulated so far; caches are regulated; therefore, the guarantee of fundamental rights, which is very important for the same thing, is increased. And ultimately, in relation to Ceuta and Melilla I have to say one thing. There is no State in the world that renounces its fundamental right to protect its borders. Of course, we must protect borders while respecting human rights - it would be more difficult! - in Ceuta, Melilla and at all times and everywhere. That is why we have incorporated in the Senate an explicit guarantee and reference that the right to guarantee our borders must be made at all times with full respect for the human rights conventions signed by Spain. I want to say one thing. We are at a time when the European Union is calling for the security of external borders in the face of the terrorist threat we have. And Ceuta and Melilla are the external border of the European Union as well and are the Schengen area. Ceuta and Melilla are the only external border that the European Union has in Africa, and I stand there. You all know the migratory pressure and the number of refugees that, on the occasion of the so-called Arab Spring and the wars that are taking place in the area, are currently taking place. This amendment to the Aliens Act was necessary to ensure that the Civil Guard, which is mandated by law to defend our territory, does so in conditions of absolute and full legal certainty. At the moment you have voted that you do not - and you have the right to do so, but I have the duty to make it clear because we are in the process of approving the Senate's amendments - that such a rejection at the border is done with full guarantees of human rights and that those who consider that they have a subjective right to seek international protection, whether asylum or subsidiary protection, can do so in premises that are empowered to do so. You have voted against this; you have every right but I sincerely believe that it is appropriate for public opinion - because we live in a democratic state - to know what is being debated and voted on today. Ultimately, I am convinced that once the law comes into force, experience will show that the more security there is, in this case and with this law, the more freedom that does not at all affect the organic law regulating the right of assembly. And in any case - Madam President, I conclude - from the discrepancy but by saying what the law really says and not other things, I thank you for what you have done, what you have worked for because even from the discussion the light arises and, in contrast to what many have said, the light of the truth will emerge from what this law says once it comes into force from next July. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u117	Thank you, Minister. [[Mr Sixto Iglesias asks for the word]] Yes, Mr. Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u118	They have reopened the debate on the substance of the amendments coming from the Senate.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u119	You have one minute to talk about the amendment to which the Minister has referred.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u120	I shall refer specifically to the amendment mentioned by the Minister to the effect that it does not in any case give legal certainty to the proceedings of the Civil Guard. The only actions that the Civil Guard can take under the Aliens Act and the Aliens Regulations are: to lead immediately to persons at the border or near the border to the police stations of the National Police, to identify them and to allow them to appeal against their immediate expulsion. That is the procedure of expulsion regulated by law. Any other interpretation that you from your ministry try to support in this legal text will be in breach of international treaties and the legislation signed by Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u121	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. [[Mr Olabarría Muñoz asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr Olabarría, to refer to that alone and exclusively.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u122	Yes, about that amendment to which Mr Sixto referred. Minister, respect for the international conventions signed by Spain in relation to foreigners cannot be invoked when a manifestly perverse legal operation is carried out, which is to turn a criminal offence, such as illegal deportation, into something legal or legalized ex post, which is the hot return. From that perspective, I recommend that you think about it: either you really want to respect the asylum requirements of the Vienna Convention, the Geneva Convention and the second protocol to the European Convention on Refugee and Asylum, or not. The two things simultaneously are impossible. You can perform the dialectic elucubrations you want but what is...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u123	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. Your time's up. [[Mr Sánchez Amor asks for the floor]] Mr. Sánchez Amor, for the same?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u124	Yes, for the same, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your words. Indeed, it has been a debate from which the light has been able to emerge. On the subject of the amendment to the hot return, I would like to reiterate that our concern is that the security forces, which are working in very difficult conditions in that area, have sufficient legal security to be able to focus on their work, which is already complicated enough, without having to wait for a complaint. The problem is that, in citing the international regulation of these rights, what is being done is to highlight the contradiction of that de facto practice, which is the hot return with the existence of Spanish commitments to these international conventions. Hence our concern and we understand that the criticisms that have been made of this final drafting in the Senate are precisely that this ambiguity persists and that this brings back to the feet of the horses the security forces that are working in very difficult conditions, to which we send our recognition.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u125	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Amor. Mr. Escobar. [[Denial]] Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u126	I simply want to say that at the moment it is the duty of the Government, of every Government of Spain, that the agents of the law enforcement authority, in this case the Civil Guard, which is entrusted by the Law on State Security Forces and Bodies to preserve that they do not illegally enter our country persons or goods - that is provided for by the 1986 Law, as you know, Your Honor, approved by the Socialist Government - do not find themselves in the situation in which they are at present. We have 25 civilian guards charged in Ceuta and Melilla, and it is the duty of the Government - and I understand that of all - to provide them with the necessary protection and legal certainty so that, in full conformity with the international conventions signed by Spain or to which it is a party, they can carry out the mission they have legally entrusted. They have been doing so, as you know, since 2005. The only difference is that they had not been given this legal coverage that we now give them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u127	Thank you, Minister. - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ON THE CONTROL OF ECONOMIC-FINANCING ACTIVITY OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES, AMENDING ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 8/2007 OF 4 JULY 2007 ON THE FINANCING OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES, ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/2002 OF 27 JUNE, POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES AND ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 2/1982 OF 12 MAY OF THE COURT OF ACCOUNTS. [[File number 121/000082]] - DRAFT RULING LAW FOR THE EXERCISE OF THE HIGH OFFICE OF THE GENERAL ADMINISTRATION OF THE STATE. [[File number 121/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u128	We then proceed to the joint debate, in accordance with the decision of the Board of Spokesmen, of the amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Law on the Control of the Economic and Financial Activity of Political Parties amending the Organic Law 8/2007 of 4 July on the Financing of Political Parties, the Organic Law 6/2002 of 27 June, on Political Parties and the Organic Law 2/1982 of 12 May of the Court of Auditors, and at the same time the draft law regulating the exercise of the high office of the General Government of the State. In the course of fixing positions, first of all, by the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Salvador.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, we are finalizing the two bills that seek to combat corruption, which affects senior officials and party funding; they have been described very well by the President. This is a debate, ladies and gentlemen, obviously very recurrent in this House. I myself and therefore UPN have often had the opportunity to set our positions and our proposals. I summarize the most recent ones: on October 8, 2013, before a United Left motion; on October 10, 2013, in the debate on a PSOE bill for funding political parties, and most recently on November 27, 2014 and January 14, 2015, in the discussions leading up to these two bills. Therefore, I refer to them and will not reproduce the arguments I used in these interventions. But let me have three very brief, almost schematic notes. First, I would like to express our relative satisfaction with the adoption of these bills because by reviewing the background, precedents and debates, it is true that the rules have changed, the controls have changed and there is greater regulation, more rigour and more control than we had when we discussed in 2013. Our obligation must be to change the law because it is obvious that changing the human condition is much more complicated. Secondly, I don't think we should waste our time blaming ourselves for corruption, or yes. In any case, let us do so, but let us not allow such criticisms or debates to prevent us from finding useful ways to combat this phenomenon, to prevent it and to punish harshly corrupt conduct. Thirdly, and lastly, in the Navarro People's Union, we are going to maintain our proposals, which have not been accepted so far, but which we believe can contribute to combating this phenomenon and which happen: first, by making internal changes to the rules of Congress to sanction Members who falsify their declaration of property and income or present a false property profile. Secondly, to maintain the prohibition of all donations not only of legal persons but also of physical persons. Thirdly, to continue to call for the reduction of electoral campaigns. Fourthly, to support better management of the power of lobbyists, lobbyists. Fifthly, for insisting on a calm debate on new mechanisms for reporting irregularities in the administration that already exist in other countries and also on some sectoral regulations in our country. Sixthly, to put forward, and we will continue to do so, a system of choice of judges for judges and not for politicians. In any case - I conclude, Madam President - as I said, we advocate not lowering the guard against corruption and, although we welcome the changes introduced by these projects, we will continue our initiatives in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u130	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. For the same group, Mrs Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, three days after Judge Ruz has completed the investigation into what is known as the Barcenas case, the parliamentary process of the three bills that the Government has introduced as the great panacea to combat corruption is completed in this House. In the light of these new laws, we understand that in a case such as the one I have just mentioned the proposals of persons to be tried, as proposed by Judge Ruz, they would be exactly the same because the political responsibilities of what is an obvious crime continue, ladies and gentlemen, without consideration of criminal responsibility. That is why the Galego Nationalist Block has already said, when we defend before this plenary our amendments to these two bills, which were nothing but smoke, smoke from the government to cover a very serious situation. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Government and the People's Party want to fight corruption, not only do they have to pass laws that do little to support current legislation, but they have to act by condemning corrupt practices, illegal acts in some cases, lack of ethics in others, of their own party and assume the political responsibilities that we constantly demand, and resign; resign, ladies and gentlemen, something fundamental and that does not seem to enter the dictionary of the People's Party. When this party faces so much scandal of political corruption - box B, illegal financing and fiscal crime as it emerges from Judge Ruz's conclusions and let us not talk about other cases such as, for example, Operation Punica - it assumes those political responsibilities and the resignations of its corresponding leaders are, by the way, many - even the party president himself, Mr Rajoy, who agrees with the President of the Government - we will not be able to begin, ladies and gentlemen, to truly believe that the Government, the People's Party and the parliamentary group that supports him have interest and intention in ending this shameful scourge. Meanwhile, lies from the People's Party do not assume political responsibilities for the very serious corruption that is in their party with the corresponding resignations, we will continue to say that these bills that are passed today are nothing but smoke. We hope that this smoke will not prevent citizens from seeing the People's Party being punished as it should in the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u132	Mrs. Fernández Davila, your time is up. Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Davila. Mr. Larreina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the final phase of a law that forms part of a package of measures promoted by the Government, which I would say have a purely propagandistic purpose, a political market, because none of them, and neither do these, are the root of the problem. Our group, Amaiur, has said on many occasions, and we have repeated it, that our primary objective in this House is not to contribute to the improvement of the laws - that is why we normally do not go into partial amendments - but we do aim to raise our thoughts and criticisms about those laws in case they are to be taken into account and to improve that legislation, which in the cases we are talking about today affects fundamental rights of citizens. We see that there is no such will, but that we are, as I said before, in political market operations. It is said that corruption must be combated, which is an endemic and structural problem of the Spanish State because it affects the sphere of political institutions, the sphere of the economy, the sphere of employers' and trade union organisations, the sphere of sport, all areas, and is perfectly established, even in the field of tax fraud, which is one of the highest in the whole of the European Union, which is still another form of corruption. Faced with that underlying problem you are not acting at the root of the problem, which is changing culture, and culture is changing by going ahead, setting an example. The problem you have, and in the end we all have it because it affects society as a whole, is that of lack of credibility. Citizenship could tell the People's Party government: Mr Rajoy, lords of the People's Party, works are love and not good reasons. Indeed, there are very good reasons in the laws, in the explanations, in the approaches, in the proposals, but then the reality does not follow those good reasons. Right now - here it has already been quoted - in the courts there are many things on the table. In the face of these realities, which are sad realities, one is not reacting with force, with the radicality that these situations require. That is the main problem facing the Spanish State right now, corruption as an endemic problem and the lack of reaction of its political leaders to that endemic problem. This creates a lack of credibility and people on the street think: yes, they make laws, but done the law made the trap, and in the end there will be laws and everything will remain the same. This is a reflection that needs to be addressed calmly, forcefully and radically. If we are not radical in rejecting corruption in the field of politics, then in the end we lose all credibility in politics and you too are losing credibility as a State. Amaiur from this rostrum has said many times that they are on their way to being a failed State from a political, economic and social point of view, and this is one of the elements that can make a decisive contribution to being that failed State. You will say: and to you who are Basque independenceists, what worries you, if you want to leave? Indeed, we defend sovereignty for our country, we advocate that our citizens can decide whether or not they want to be independent. We try to convince them that it is better to be independent within that united Europe, but undoubtedly whether or not we are independent, it also affects us anything that happens within the European Union and it also affects us what happens within the Spanish State. That is why, while we claim sovereignty for our country, precisely in order to be a different country, to act differently and to do politics in another way, we also challenge them, which are radical against corruption, but not with laws, which laws often serve for one thing and the other, but act forcefully, radically in the face of the facts that are right now on the table. The Act on the financing of political parties within it entails serious democratic corruption when it establishes a series of indeterminate concepts leading to the illegalization of parties that have had very serious consequences for our country. All these laws, as I said before, are superfluous if there is no clear will to change the political culture of the whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u134	Thank you, Mr. Larreina. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u135	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Following the logic of the last speaker in the Group of the European People's Party, I would now like to say that my group is going to vote no to these laws because, according to your logic, you do not want to vote together in the same direction as the Group of the European People's Party. I will not deny, and in this case even more so, that the Group of the European People's Party is burning with these issues, but I would also like to make it clear that the party and the group I represent are serious and that we have reached a series of agreements, as I will explain. The law has a number of advances that cannot be taken into account either and it is better for them to enter the legal system than not. So our vote is going to be favorable, a yes not very fanatical, but it is going to be favorable. And why not very fanatical? Among other things, because one of the main problems, as I pointed out in the debate in this House before I sent the text to the Senate, that reading the title of the laws should be addressed is that of party financing, as well as all that concerns the control of the finances of the parties. We have made significant progress and probably, after this legislation comes into force, the political parties will be among all the agencies and institutions of the State that have greater control. However, we have left many doubts about funding, among other things, because the cut in government decisions in the area of public funding has been radical and at the same time this bill is closing down in practice private funding to political parties, not so much to foundations, but of course clearly to political parties. Will this model therefore be sufficient to enable political parties to carry out their work properly, with sufficient funding? As I said in my previous speech, allow me to maintain my doubts. We will clarify that in a few years, but, frankly, my political group has serious doubts that the part about the financing of political parties is permanently resolved. In the Senate amendments there have been some things that have been improved. The truth is that most are grammatical touches, but there are some things that are of substance and that improve what we had, what had been sent from Congress. The issue of permanent coalitions between parties and how to control monetary flows between them is considered in a broader way. Contributions to political parties are also provided for those persons who are not members of the political parties but who hold positions of responsibility in the Administration on their behalf. I think it was important to have legal certainty when it came to moving in an electoral period, that the Electoral Board should make known to each of the political parties what the limit is, its electoral spending ceiling in advance, because each of the parties could have an approximate calculation, but at the moment sanctions are put, and very rigorous. In the case of the electoral roof as well. I insist in the past that there is discrimination against parties that do not appear in the whole territory of the Spanish State because their spending ceiling is less than the margin that the rest of the parties have. Beyond that, it is important to have the legal certainty to know what the expenditure limit is, considering that the sanctions to be applied are then very important. It was also important to refer to the existence of seized assets. As the return to the trade unions at the time took place, some political parties still have their assets seized and that debt has not been paid. Therefore, it is good that the mention made in the law be made. I think that we are wrong to legislate unnecessarily - because this should be a question of the statutes of each political party - that it is necessary to be eighteen years old to be part of a political party. The tradition in this country has been different. Normally from the age of sixteen, membership was allowed and, in any case, it should not be mixed with the right to vote. That is set by the Constitution and the Loreg, but one thing does not have to lead to the other. That's at least my opinion. I'm closing, Madam President. In any case, I believe that there are improvements, especially in the area of control and control, which cannot be overlooked. It is better that these are introduced than not to maintain the legislation as hitherto. There are issues that will have to be addressed in the coming years if they have been resolved - I personally doubt it very much - and I want to point out something that must be made clear. I guess no one wants to wash their faces of facts that may have happened with the passing of this law. Of course, everything they have done is not annulled by approval or support for this rule at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u136	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. There is no one for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. We therefore move on to the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left. Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u137	Thank you, Madam President. At today's session, the People's Parliamentary Group is subjecting us to double parliamentary torture. On the one hand, quoting my colleague Don Gaspar Llamazares, he has thrown on us the authoritarian tripod, which he said were the law of gags, the amendments to the Penal Code and the Anti-Terrorism Act. Now, in the second part of the session, it puts on top of us the tripod of anti-corruption makeup with the two laws that we are going to discuss now - on the one hand, the organic law of control of the economic-financial activity of the political parties and, on the other hand, the law of the high office - which, in addition to the law of transparency that at the time processed this House as an initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group, are three make-up initiatives in the face of the debates of transparency and corruption. The People's Party will do its electoral campaign with this. When the campaigns are approaching we will hear that the People's Party is the party that has fought the most in Spain against corruption. Prepare your ears. You will hear that the People's Party is the one that has fought the most in Spain against corruption. We will also hear that the People's Party is the one that has done most in Spain for transparency. These two things are going to be heard and these laws, laws that some groups are going to vote affirmatively, are going to be used to structure that speech. Obviously, reality is different. First of all, the People's Party has had very bad luck. When the Transparency Act was processed, the Barcenes case broke out in his nostrils. Do you remember? In the parliamentary process it had its consequences. And now that you bring us these two bills, the one on party financing and that on the law of the high office, we learned a few days ago from Judge Ruz's car against the People's Party for illegal financing. Yeah, it's bad luck, but it's two realities. I would like to read some very important and related phrases of that car - or should be - with the draft law on the financing of political parties that we are dealing with. The judge says that since 1990 and until at least 2008 the People's Party has benefited from various sources of financing outside the legal economic circuit. The judge also states that the payment of salaries, salary supplements or compensations to persons linked to the party to expenses generated in election campaigns...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u138	Mr Nuet, it was only to remind you that we are in the debate on Senate amendments to two laws, we are not in a debate on Gürtel. I say this because you are opening debates in which perhaps others want to speak or the spokesman himself of the People's Parliamentary Group. As we are not in this debate, I remind you - because it has been a long time talking about other issues - that you have to talk about Senate amendments to these two bills, as our own Rules say, not my will that in this case does not count. Go ahead, Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u139	Thank you. I lost a few seconds with your intervention, I'd ask you to finally get them back. I am talking about funding political parties and we are discussing a law on funding political parties; I have no doubt that I am talking about funding political parties. That's what the car said, it's a reality. Today we read in some media that the People's Party paid 245,000 bail yesterday, and a photograph appears. Although Minister Montoro wants to convince us that this is the headquarters of Caritas, this is the headquarters of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Therefore, this is what we are discussing and the context in which we are doing it. The amendments that come from the Senate to the two laws are not going to change the laws substantially, they are practically technical amendments. They will follow in the law such important issues as, for example, that the foundations will remain the glue of the illegal financing of some parties - yes, a little more restricted, but they will follow in the law, in its law -; or, for example, they will consolidate in the law the revolving doors and the fact that in this country doing business and doing politics on many occasions is the same; or, for example, that boxes B will perhaps continue to work and that they will be charged outstanding. That's not what the law talks about, because the law puts a lot of pressure - and we agree with that - on party finance managers, but it doesn't say anything when those finance managers have handled a B-box and paid works and paid out with dirty money, that's what your law says nothing. We cannot vote on the financing law because of the foundations and because in the matter of drawing up the electoral lists it does not take a step forward. We advocate mandatory participation and democracy mechanisms in the parties for the preparation of electoral lists. We discuss what mechanisms, but obviously Spanish society demands participation and democracy in this. If we had had a good debate, we could have agreed on how electoral lists can be regulated in the parties, but obviously the fingers - which are in various parties - are not the most appropriate form. Secondly, we cannot vote on the bill from the high office. Why? Because we had the opportunity to legislate a number of aspects and we did not legislate them, and I am not just referring to the subject of lobbies, forcibles or pardons, because we even told the People's Party that if any of these issues were not covered by the law, a legislative political commitment would be made to its legislation, and that did not come. Therefore, no regulation of lobbies, no regulation of pangs and pardons until new news. If, on the other hand, lack of transparency, lack of analysis of what the concept of investigation for corruption means - I no longer use the concept of imputation for corruption, but that of investigation for corruption, which, from our point of view, should be a situation so that both the eligibility and the performance of the high office are reviewed, and of that there is nothing in the law - there is no need for the strengthening of the retributive incompatibilities of the high offices to appear in the law, of that there is nothing in the law. Nor, for example, is the conflict of interest made more flexible and sanctions strengthened when a situation arises. I mean that the Office of Conflict of Interest is independent and not a government agency to judge itself sometimes. I am referring to the fact that the incompatibilities and the exclusive dedication of Members and Senators were well regulated in the new law of high office. And finally, I mean that the role of this Congress was more important. I'm done. They say the bad languages that business is done on the stage of Bernabéu or Camp Nou. That may be so, but, ladies and gentlemen, business is also being done in this country in the Council of Ministers and the laws that we are going to pass today do not prevent it. Business is also done by shielding itself in the statutes of former presidents. With the statutes of former presidents, business is also done, even though they try not to argue or be known to the public. Therefore, a lot of makeup, but today we do not take a step ahead with the issue of anti-corruption. His propaganda is going to sell it to the four winds, but unfortunately, the reality is different. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u140	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Mrs Surroca, for the Convergence and Union Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Convergence i Unió already said at the beginning of the debate in this House that in the terms in which this project was set up it was a step forward. It seemed to us a step forward to achieve greater transparency in the regulation and functioning of political parties, as well as to ensure greater control, especially with regard to the economic and financial activities of political parties. If we properly look at it, after all the parliamentary procedure, after a large part of the amendments tabled by the various groups have been incorporated - in this case I will place particular emphasis on the amendments that have been incorporated, most of them from our parliamentary group, in the form of transactions that were accepted and agreed with the People's Group - the reform is not enough but we understand that it is moving in the right direction, and we said so in the debate we had in the Constitutional Commission a few weeks ago. Much further progress has to be made in that control and transparency of the activities of political parties, but progress is being made in the right direction. That is why much of the amendments of our parliamentary group that have been incorporated, as well as other coincident amendments of other parliamentary groups that have been incorporated into the paper, improve the original text of the draft. In short, our parliamentary group has tabled a number of amendments. Some of them concerned the delimitation of powers between the Court of Auditors and the Union of Accounts. Another group of amendments was intended to adapt the project to the organizational reality of the parties, particularly in those cases where we participate in several parties through a coalition or confederation. We understood that this was not properly regulated in the original text of the bill. We also tabled a set of amendments to more proportionally and adequately modulate the regime of violations and sanctions against political parties. And another block of amendments, which is fundamental to us, had to do with adequate funding for political parties. We have already said at the time, and we have manifested it again, that we believe it is the great outstanding subject. We have to open a serious, rigorous and far-off debate in which all the parliamentary groups talk slowly and with due rigour - I insist - on this issue, because this project does not solve it. Political parties, as fundamental elements of our democratic model, need adequate funding and we have to address it seriously, and this project has not done so. Our parliamentary group has made proposals which we believe are, in this respect, enriching. For example, we were talking about participatory contributions. Why were we talking about this? Because we understood that it was a way of involving citizens in political parties and at the same time that political parties opened up to society. We were talking about formulas like, for example, micro-mecenation. All these issues were rejected by the People's Group and we regret it, because we understand that they were and are important issues that have remained as outstanding subjects, among others, in this project. We wish to highlight and highlight the various compromise amendments, with the participation of our parliamentary group, which have been incorporated in the text that comes from the Senate. There are several aspects that have been substantially improved. There are three compromise amendments which have to do precisely with adapting the text to that reality of different parties or parliamentary groups which we are present in this House and which we are permanently participating in through coalitions or party federations, and this reality was excluded from the original draft. Thanks to amendments from our parliamentary group, this has been incorporated into the Senate. We also believe that it has been important to incorporate in the Senate another amendment from our parliamentary group that has to do with the historic debt that is outstanding in relation to different political parties. This has been incorporated into the Senate through a transactional, which does not exactly conform to the amendment that our group had tabled, but we understand that it is an important gesture and we want to put it into value here today. In short, with regard to this bill, we understand that this is an important step forward, that several compromises and amendments tabled by other groups have been incorporated into the Senate that improve the initial text, the text that came out of Congress and, therefore, our parliamentary group is going to vote in favour, as it has already announced in this House in the previous vote. On the same line as on the other occasion, we will vote in favour. With regard to the draft high offices of the General Administration of the State, on which my colleague Jordi Jané has been rapporteur, but I am going to make a brief mention of having accumulated the two points, I simply want to say that we are also going to vote in favour, because we understand that the amendments that have been incorporated from the Senate are in line with what we have already defended on the previous occasion in this House. We want to emphasize that this regulation is for senior officials of the General Administration of the State. We are not, therefore, before a basic law. This was a matter of concern to our parliamentary group and we understand that it has been clearly delimited, so we will also vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Surroca. For the Socialist Group, Mr Pradas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u143	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to talk about democratic regeneration in this House when one of the interlocutors, in this case a qualified interlocutor such as the People's Party, is being accused by a judge of being a profit-making participant in a crime of illegal financing and of having carried a B account for at least eighteen years, accusations that they have to deposit this very morning, as one of my predecessors has said, a bail in court. It is very difficult to talk about regeneration when one of the most prestigious organizations in this country, such as the Tax Agency, has been hindering the work of the judiciary in investigating a case related precisely to the financing of a party, an institution that has compared a party accused of irregular financing with an institution such as Caritas for the sake of ills and cynicism. It is impossible to reach agreements on regeneration and transparency when Parliament is repeatedly given the sword by the President of the Government and President of the People's Party, who is being charged with such serious crimes and irregularities. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, today, from the Socialist Group, we have again called for the presence of the President of the Government in this House. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with which you are falling out there, with which you fell on Sunday, you still think that people are going to settle for an alien job by tweaking a couple of laws? I have already commented on this in the Commission: if that is the case, we have not heard anything. We wanted to take advantage of the processing of these two laws, the organic law of economic and financial activity of the political parties and the law of high offices, as well as the reform of the Criminal Code that we have seen before, in order to reach an agreement that would send a clear message to society, which is outraged with us all by numerous cases of corruption, but the People's Group has preferred to get bogged down and act as if the problem did not exist. Cases of corruption, the image of lack of transparency, the perception of parties as endogamic entities affect us all. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, all of you. However, the group that supports the Government, with its absolute majority here and in the Senate, is the one that has the greatest responsibility in changing this perception, but they also did not want to do so in the processing of these two laws in the Senate. They have lacked ambition and will miss a golden opportunity to send society a clear message of commitment to change things in this country. The citizens are tired of the and you more, and we, ladies and gentlemen, the honest politicians, the vast majority of us here, should be the first to change that image. In its proceedings in Congress we already voted against the bill of high office and abstained in the financing law with the remote confidence - naive, I would say - that some of our amendments would be incorporated into its proceedings in the Senate. In both Houses we were aware that many of our proposals did not fit technically into the texts we were discussing, but we insisted that such an ambitious package should have accommodated these aspirations or at least allowed certain commitments to be projected with credibility. I remind you that it was the President of the Government himself who put all hope in this legislative package, and Mr Rajoy has not yet kept his word. They bring us from the Senate two bills processed quickly and running, perhaps to deal with the hellish election calendar that came upon them, but on Sunday they found in their own flesh that citizens are not deceived by a legislative cosmetics. You didn't want to talk about rotating doors. Do you think it is welcome that we maintain the possibility of health officials in some autonomous communities taking advantage of their public office to place themselves in private health companies a couple of years later? They did not want to talk about changing the system of designation by the General Courts of constitutional and regulatory bodies in order to prevent their colonization by political parties and ensure their independence. Do you think it is defendable that in just one legislature you are ending the prestige of the Tax Agency with the partisan use to which you are subjecting it with the Bárcenas case? They have not wanted to talk about amending the law on public sector contracts in order to put an end to the usual corruption of split contracts, which allow them to be awarded through negotiated procedures and without advertising, which are also emerging in many cases of corruption. They did not want to talk about giving the National High Court knowledge of corruption-related offences when they were committed with the participation of public officials or representatives so that they could be promptly prosecuted and their responsibilities determined as soon as possible. They did not want to end the opacity of tax amnesties, lifting the secret for tax violations of more than 30,000 euros. They did not want to deepen intensively the way in which political party organizations were opened up to society by contributing to greater internal democracy. These are just a few examples of issues that the Socialist Group, through our amendments and the political negotiation of laws, has considered essential and has not wanted to reach agreement. We told him on several occasions, was told by the Secretary General of the Socialist Party, Pedro Sánchez, in the general debate on corruption in which it became the consideration of these two laws, in the debate on the state of the nation, in Congress, in the Senate and in the commissions themselves. Citizens demand that we move from words to facts to break the spiral of political disaffection, not only with the political parties and with what they call the political class, but with the institutions themselves, with the democratic state itself. That is the danger we face. And for the moment - I am not grateful to say - we have not been able to live up to it. I repeat that this is not the time for cosmetic operations in relation to democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption. This is not the time to postpone fundamental decisions in this area to subsequent laws. It is not the time to let justice do its job while legislators breakfast every day with a new scandal without doing anything. It is time to act decisively. We have little time left, ladies and gentlemen. At this point, the question is not whether two laws, together with the amendments to which you referred to the Criminal Code, improve the current regime. They do, I won't deny it, the question is whether they do it enough for the critical moment we are in. Socialists understand that not. Today the possibility that we have kept open to collect our proposals in one of the three texts ends. That has been our purpose and has been frustrated. For all that said and because no one would understand that we support a government that neither appears nor assumes responsibility when justice has found the illegal financing for at least eighteen years of the party that supports it, the Socialist Group is going to vote against these two bills. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u144	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u145	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are finalizing the parliamentary process of two very important legislative projects for our democracy, two legislative projects that are part of the Government's plan to regenerate and combat corruption, the broader, more ambitious and more comprehensive plan than ever before, this House had debated in favour of improving the quality of our democracy, in response to civil unrest and in particular in the fight against political corruption. And it is true that some do not share this path or this vision. What's more, I don't think they even care, because more than correcting that defect, what they're actually trying to do is take advantage of it, in a clear strategy to try to reach power. But the improvement and strengthening of the quality of our democracy does not go beyond that goal or strategy. Regeneration of democracy cannot but replace the system or break the principles of our rule of law or, of course, break or destroy a model that is allowing us to enjoy a system of rights and freedoms for the most advanced in the world. Strengthening democracy is about reforming what works so that it works better, correcting its shortcomings and deviations, improving the quality and functioning of our democratic institutions, and that is exactly what we do with these laws. With the law regulating the exercise of the high office of the General Administration of the State, we establish the requirements of suitability, honorability, experience and professional competence of those who have been called to hold a high office in the General Administration of the State. We guarantee that the exercise of this activity, moreover, is carried out with the maximum conditions of transparency, control of legality and publicity in their statements, reinforcing the Office of Conflicts of Interest. In addition, we reinforce the limitations of the so-called revolving door - let alone say - by running away from populist criteria, which would end up leading little less than to the civilian death of those who have held a position of responsibility in the Government. The limitations on returning to the private activity of the high office must exist, but we understand that this incompatibility should be limited to the two years following its cessation. Rigor yes, ladies and gentlemen, but also proportionality. In any case, this will be a law that will bring a lot to the institutional quality and a lot of transparency to the reality of our senior positions. The second of the laws is the law of control of the economic and financial activity of the parties. A law that affects us all because we have all been elected to lists of parties represented in this House. A law of self-requirement that responds to the principles of exemplaryness, transparency and austerity, which are the principles that must govern the life of the parties in the future and which has been improved with the Senate amendments that we adopted today and that, as has already been said by some of the speakers who have preceded me in the use of the word, will better define some aspects of the law in order to avoid interpretative doubts. It is these principles that justify, among other measures, that debt forgiveness to parties will henceforth be prohibited; that donations from legal persons to parties will be prohibited in order to permanently separate the world from the politics of the business world and that donations from natural persons to parties will also be limited in the amount of 50,000 euros, no more than half of what has been collected so far in the legislation. On the other hand, we will strengthen the mechanisms for monitoring the foundations linked to the parties. It is a law, I said, of self-requirement, but also of austerity and exemplaryness. I know that the adjustment in these years has been very hard and that public funding for the parties has been reduced by no more than 40%. But, ladies and gentlemen, if in these years we have been asking for efforts and sacrifices from citizens it was logical that we, the political parties, were the first to adjust, we were the first to be exemplary. That is why in this law we not only consolidate this 40% reduction in public funding in the parties, but also reduce the mailing subsidy by 20% more and we have linked public funding of the parties in the future, not to the CPI or to the gross domestic product, but to a much fairer parameter, the financing of the parties from now on will be linked to the evolution of social spending in the State's General Budgets. We have also increased accountability with the creation of the figure of the economic and financial head of the parties, and we have severely criminalized the offences in which a party may incur and its corresponding sanctions, which because of their seriousness can reach the qualification of the new type of illegal financing that we have introduced in the reform of the Criminal Code. With regard to the internal functioning of the parties, we have expanded the minimum content of the statutes, which must reflect both the procedure for the election of the governing bodies, management and representation in such a way as to ensure the participation of all participants in such procedures, as well as the procedures for the defence of the rights of the participants and of the sanctioning regime, which will always guarantee the prior hearing of the affiliate, except in two cases: the temporary suspension of the participation of those in criminal proceedings for offences of corruption when an order for the opening of an oral trial has been issued, which will become a final expulsion if after the trial a conviction has been imposed. We do, ladies and gentlemen, because we understand that corruption is incompatible with membership and affiliation to a political party. On this subject and on the basis of what has been said, I would like to reflect. Ladies and gentlemen, corruption always means a breakdown of the civic, ethical and legal principles of every society, but when it has a political nature it also has another component, it means a breakdown of the principle of trust which is the basis of representative democracy. That is why from here we must wage an unbridled struggle against it, open a stage of intransigence against corrupt and irregular behaviour that undermines the credibility of politics and that have done so much damage to confidence in the system and institutions, and that is precisely what we are doing with this reform. Ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen the system and to dignify politics must certainly be to despise and combat corrupt people, but it must also respect the most basic principles of the rule of law. People get corrupted, not acronyms. If we believe in the rule of law, we never extend responsibility beyond who has it, from harm to the guilty, never the innocent. [[Applauds]] Therefore, it also seems to me as reprehensible as it is inappropriate for some to have used their turn to sow shadows of suspicion, to launch judgments of value concerned and to issue pre-trial convictions, deliberately confusing an indictment with a sentence, confusing what is only indicatively credited with the evidence, because, then, ladies and gentlemen, why would we need trials? [[Applauds]] Indiciaryly, that's what Judge Ruz's car says. What else would I gain now by talking about other cases of corruption that affect them? What would I gain from talking about Fitonovo, about the training courses, that two delegates of the Board have been arrested this week? Above all, what would citizens gain? What would we gain by turning a debate on proposals into a crossroads of criticism? We wouldn't win anything, ladies and gentlemen. There is much talk here of regeneration, because from this rostrum we must also speak in favour of regeneration, looking to the future, which is the task that belongs to us as legislators. Let us not be mistaken, it is not a question of using corruption against the adversary, it is a question of combating corruption in order to put an end to the corrupt, which is what the citizens are asking of us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to assess today, of course, and critically, and to legislate; judging and condemning is not up to us. That, in a rule of law, is the responsibility of the courts of justice. But just as I say this, one thing must also be made clear: the responsibility to give a strong response to this climate of mistrust and mistrust is not of justice, it is and was fundamentally ours. I think we've done it. Some think that we have not been able to do so; I believe, Mr Pradas, that we have been able to do so and that with these reforms corrupt behaviours are going to be more difficult, they are going to be discovered more quickly, they are going to be punished more harshly and we are going to have new instruments for the corrupt to return what they have stolen, which is also what the citizens are asking us to do. We have been working throughout Christmas for two months in paper; there have been five presentation sessions. I believe that all groups, despite the speeches they made this morning, have also contributed to the text of this law. I do not think it is wrong if I say that there is more consensus in these laws than there is dissent. So I want to end up positive. I would like to end by thanking all the rapporteurs, Mr Esteban, Mrs Surroca, also Mr Sixto, who has contributed to this law, Mr Pradas, Mr Serrano - to whom I would like to send a very affectionate greeting wishing him to recover as soon as possible - and of course, my colleagues, Mr Gómez de la Serna, Mr Vera and Mr Floriano, who have allowed me to defend these bills on his behalf today. I want to acknowledge all, including lawyers, their work and contributions because this law is yours, although in the end in an inexplicable position some will not vote for it. I know that the situation influences, see if it influences that most of your objections do not relate to the content of this law; see if it influences the situation, which has changed some, in a treacherous way, from close to the self to the abstention and today to vote against. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot change your political strategy, and although I regret it, neither can any of us change the past, but what we can do is to fulfil our obligation and it is to legislate for the future so that certain behaviours that may have occurred in the past will never happen again. Ladies and gentlemen - and this concludes - the message we want to convey to the citizens is that we have listened to them, that we have reacted and that in these legislative proposals we have our response and our will. Our response from the commitment to transparency and exemplary political activity and also our will for corruption to disappear in the future from the Government's list of priorities because we have all managed to have it also disappeared from the list of concerns of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u146	Thank you, Mr. Bermúdez de Castro. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIC LAW AMENDING ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE, IN THE MATTER OF TERRORISM DELITS. [[File number 122/000189]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u147	We turn to the amendments adopted by the Senate to the proposed organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on terrorist offences. First of all, on the watch, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Barkos.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u148	Thank you, President. I'll do it from the seat. They give us back from the Senate a proposal for the law that comes as it was, with 70% of the House, which had very much to defend in the rostrum. I have to say that 70% are still going on, and I am concerned. 70% of the House is supporting the debate on a disjunctive basis - against this at the moment we are already putting our position against - between freedom and security, 70%, seems to me to be a real excess. On the other hand, 70% of the House, giving this text validity as a tool against violence, in this case jihadist violence, seems to me to be absolutely a failure. The Government has succeeded in attracting the Socialist Parliamentary Group to what we understand as a fallacy in the debate on whether it is first security that freedom, and has even succeeded in voting again today for the restoration of life imprisonment. We understand that these data are equally important to maintain the position of that moment, in the case of Geroa Bai el no to organic law. Finally, it is a misconception that, far from strengthening security mechanisms, clearly attacks elements of freedom. We shall vote, I insist, not on the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Barkos. By the same group, Mr. Salvador.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u150	Thank you, Madam President. We are finalizing the processing of this bill, which originates in a political agreement between the Socialist Party and the People's Party on counter-terrorism matters. My party, Unión del Pueblo Navarro, welcomed the agreement from the beginning, we supported it and signed the subsequent bill containing the amendments to the Criminal Code on counter-terrorism that incorporates that agreement. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are facing new forms of terrorism; terrorism understood as selective violence in order to alter the political reality - and we know a lot about that in Spain - a terrorism with more sophisticated means, with global capacity to act, with capacity to create states of alarm and crisis, with a seductive capacity to indoctrinate and with a narrative that we must refute. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a real, global, common and shared threat. So it has all the logic that we seek to adapt the means to combat it and it has every sense to do so together if we want terror to win us no battle. It is true that others, now we have just heard, want us to do absolutely nothing. This may be a good step, but we must reach other agreements to develop strategies, implement concrete actions of prevention, criminal repression, training of our State Security Forces and Bodies and response, both in Spain and abroad, and we must do so together. I would especially like to thank the signatories for their willingness to understand that counternarratives against these phenomena of violence for political purposes are also very important. That is why we have worked and incorporated a special disqualification so that those who want to indoctrinate, capture, radicalize or pervert the sacred purposes of teaching cannot do so. Finally, we must also take advantage of our participation in the various forums that are already working to address this threat: the United Nations Committee against Torture, the Global Counter-Terrorism Forum, victim support programmes and the European Union's sectoral and regional strategy, the international coalition against Daesh or the various OSCE and European Council committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. I hope this agreement is not an exception, but it is a brick more of a common building in which we can all bring solutions to this one that is one of the greatest threats we have in our civilization.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u151	Thank you, Mr. Salvador. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u152	I'll do it from the seat. This legislature is heading towards its final line and you, the People's Party, can only teach a small, sad balance in the section of the big consensus or the state pacts. This infamous and unnecessary reform, with the sole support of the PSOE - delirious support on the other hand because they are going to repeal what they will adopt today in the next legislature - has been legislated to satisfy the most primary instincts rather than legislate with intelligence or with reason. I insist, does anyone believe that by setting up life imprisonment, terrorists will renounce their intentions? What do we want to avoid? What do we want to do? Chasing or avoiding? Do we want to avoid the attacks? Let's empower research, invest in prevention in slums, or increase the strength of security forces to control these cells. This reform is unnecessary because the existing legal framework in anti-terrorism criminal matters is one of the largest and most severe in Western Europe. This reform is a clear finding of its failure to achieve broad consensus. If they wanted state pacts, as I said, they could have started with pacts that the population is waiting for; pacts for education, for poverty, for giving money and not for turning people into terrorists who dare to protest against state structures, to intimidate them with accusations of terrorism to avoid citizen protests. I'm done. Today we will vote no and wait impatiently for the next parliamentary term for some to amend what they will vote for today. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u153	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs. Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u154	I'll do it from the seat too, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for an organic law, as it came out of Congress, returns from the Senate, maintaining those aspects that prompted the vote against the Galego Nationalist Block. Article 573 retains a definition of the crime of terrorism that departs from that contained in all international conventions; an ambiguous, indiscriminate definition that allows for punitive application in this matter according to the policy that the incumbent executive branch wishes to exercise; a definition that goes against freedom in general and, in particular, against freedom of expression. We continue to maintain that this proposal for an organic law is completely unnecessary because there are currently sufficient measures in Spanish legislation, and specifically in the Penal Code, to act in this type of crime. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, life imprisonment is also part of this proposal which is approved today and in which the Galego Nationalist Block is once again ratified in its position against. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the dangers posed by terrorism called international or jihadist terrorism, but we are also aware that these measures cannot be tackled. Let us look at the world and be aware that in order to end that terrorism, we must first end the situations of war, instability, poverty and oppression of an important part of the planet. It is, therefore, much more necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to redouble our diplomatic efforts to enable agreements with the States in conflict to be able to achieve peace, a peace which is essential in order for us not to feel threatened in this world in which we live. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have ratified our position against this bill and we regret the agreements reached.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Davila. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u156	Thank you, Madam President. "Everyone who protestes will be a criminal Anyone who resists a terrorist will be". [[...]] I do not know if you remember or have ever known this fragment of a song by La Polla Records, which I think perfectly reflects what has been achieved by the People's Party and the Socialist Party with these measures. Because, as Amnesty International rightly recalls, respect for human rights is not an obstacle to security; on the contrary, it is the way to achieve it. What is unacceptable is that human rights are violated in a supposed fight against terrorism, because you, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, do not admit to discussing the causes of this terrorism; a terrorism that would not exist if the world population had ensured food, housing, access to water and education. Of course jihadism disgusts us and we must fight it. This is evident and no one doubts it, but they also have to take into account what the United Nations rapporteur says that the concept of terrorism can only exist when there is intentionality, purpose and its enforcers are declared by international conventions and protocols. What you do here today is to legalize an expansive concept of terrorism because what you propose is precisely to associate terrorism with a serious crime against life, freedom, property, natural resources, etc., all for one purpose, to subvert the constitutional order. The Catalans know what they're telling us...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u157	Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u158	... and, in addition to knowing what they are telling us, we wonder in the hands of who will decide the purpose of these acts. We will therefore vote against these measures agreed by the Socialist Party and the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u159	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u160	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that to refute this proposition of organic law one can quote La Polla Records and even quote Tomás Moro, when he claimed that he would grant the presumption of innocence to the devil himself if the condition of that presumption of innocence was founded. It is converging in a direction contrary to Tomás Moro's lucid reflections and also with the connivance of the Socialist Party in a proposal of organic law that powerfully draws our attention as long as it does not cease to constitute a endorsement of the permanent prison reviewable, which with so much pride and lucidity have criticized. In the area of criminal law, as far as this legislature of criminal law is concerned, one has great difficulties in locating oneself methodologically and systematically. We have already explained what has happened with the Criminal Code, how it has been recast or reconfigured in the Senate through ninety amendments of the People's Group that have changed the rule, which comes here without passing the mandatory filters of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State, etc. [[The Lord]] With this something similar happens too. We find that the crimes of terrorism, not only of jihadist terrorism - we have to make this conceptual reflection because the opposite can lead to error - are delocalized, separated from the Penal Code and articulated by a purported pact - we will call it state if we want - between the People's Party and the Socialist Party in a different rule, in a proposal for an organic law in which the Socialist Party abdicates its deepest convictions in the matter of criminal law and accepts the application of permanent prison reviewable, of life imprisonment in the end, as I have explained before. In short, it is based on an unconstitutional conception of repression and criminal charges against the terrorist phenomenon, since life imprisonment or life imprisonment, as the Socialist Group spokesmen and even the Ministers of Justice and the Interior present here have acknowledged, does not fit into our legal system, but it is that the permanent prison that can be reviewed is life imprisonment, given the deadlines for reviewing the sentences imposed: twenty-five years, more than the European Court of Human Rights considers and does not contradict the forecasts of so-called degrading, cruel and therefore contrary to Community law. It also draws our attention to this and to the fact that the two parties that have signed this pact have assumed a conception of the crime of terrorism which is manifestly wrong, as Mr Serrano himself - whose early recovery I too wish to see - has expressly acknowledged. When it is defined, Mr President, the crime of terrorism has to be defined in its own terms; it is an autonomous crime, it is a crime that is defined by itself and well defined when it is said that it is the crime that disturbs the constitutional order or the ordinary functioning of state or European public institutions. But when this definition of the crime of terrorism is incorporated into a series of criminal types that have their specific characterization and their specific iuris name, the definition of the concept is terribly complicated and there is a problem of legal uncertainty for interpretation, for the exegesis of the rule that Mr Serrano himself recognized. I therefore find it very difficult to understand how such a pact could have been signed where the very definition of the concept of the crime of terrorism is so disturbing and so difficult to interpret. We are doing the opposite of what is recommended by the European Parliament. Minister, you know that the European Parliament has just adopted a resolution dated 2 March this year stating that the way to deal with jihadist terrorism - we will focus on it even if you refer to all the existing terrorist phenomena - does not consist in expanding criminal law, increasing criminal charges, but in integrating mechanisms, in cohesion mechanisms, in mechanisms of respect for multiculturalism, in mechanisms of religious respect for other religious denominations. From that perspective, stigmatization is not the best element, from a criminal or repressive perspective, to end this terrorist phenomenon, but we are faced with technical-legal dysfunctions with a poor definition of the concept of terrorism and with a somewhat anomalous and eccentric adherence by the Socialist Party to reviewable permanent prison, which one day will have to explain why they have done so, I imagine that for electoral reasons, as very often happens in this House. In short, we have a criminal law where, in order to analyse the criminal types of the Criminal Code - which has been completed this morning, Mr President - we have to resort, first of all, to this proposal for an organic law that regulates all crimes of terrorism; crimes of terrorism which, by the way, involve the shortcomings that four United Nations rapporteurs have defined as contrary to the international conventions signed by the Spanish State and to the Charter of the United Nations itself. When they are evanescent types, they are diffuse types, they are technically ill-conceived types, the crime of terrorism is based on apologetic reflections - when apologia is regulated it is an absolutely diffuse type very difficult to interpret in legal terms - which is causing a problem, which is the initiation of summaries or criminal proceedings that ultimately lead to the release of all the defendants. When it is established as part of the crime the rise, especially in the field of jihadist terrorism, we find another problem, which is what is called self-training, self-preparation through the criminalization of activities that can be considered ordinary, non-criminal by their very nature, access to certain web pages where theoretically they are formed, certain trips to certain places where there are or may be conflicts or eventualities of formation or possibilities of formation. From that perspective, there is nothing salvable in this proposal for an organic law signed by two political parties but the pre-emption of human rights requirements, both those set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the recommendations of the United Nations rapporteurs regarding the definition and the principle of legality in the definition of certain aspects of terrorist offences and a criminogenic problem that you know, Minister, which is the following. As for the penalty, for the jihadist terrorists the dimension of the punishment is irrelevant, even life imprisonment because they have already discounted their immolation. From that perspective, the purposes of punishment, which are those of special prevention, of general prevention and of remuneration, are irrelevant to them and will not deter them from committing crimes, as we all know. For this kind of specific terrorism I mention it. What's going to happen? That persons who collaborate in the commission of these crimes, such as collaborators or those who carry out apologetic reflections or exalt, will suffer greater sentences than those who have already discounted their immolation in the commission of the crime; many persons who are aware of this phenomenon have commented on this. And how is this phenomenon corrected? This phenomenon is corrected - and I conclude with this, Mr President - with the consideration of some of the Commission's recommendations of 11 March, to which I had the honour to belong. In the Commission of 11 March, in connection with the attacks on certain railway stations in Madrid where more than 100 people died, it was indicated that they are elements linked to intelligence, prevention and the efficiency of police action which can serve to suppress this special criminal phenomenonology which is called jihadist terrorism. And to what extent it is true that the Commission has been able to verify the following. Terrorists who committed the attacks obtained the explosives - Goma 2 at that time because ETA was already using Titadine - in abandoned kaolin mines in Asturias; kaolin mines that were protected by a toothless dog, had to simply cross a barrier to obtain it. Those who provided the explosives to the terrorists who committed these attacks were confidants of the Police, of the Commissioner General of the Asturias Police, and these confidants of the Police provided the terrorists, in exchange for money and in exchange for narcotic substances because they were former miners drug traffickers, the explosives they used for the commission of these attacks. Please note the extent to which intelligence, prevention, consideration of the size and depth of the problem and appropriate mechanisms have failed, as well as the increase in the penalty, the increase in criminal charges, the incorporation of a permanent, reviewable prison, life imprisonment, will be of limited efficiency. If intelligence-based preventive mechanisms are not better articulated, based on the identification of the dangers that really concern the Spanish State and all others, nothing can be done with the Criminal Code or with a proposed organic law of these characteristics. As usual, there is no punitive regulation called to solve social problems, there are other measures and other mechanisms, some of a social nature, others of a preventive nature, others of a police nature, others of the information services. In short, it is another failed act that puts us in a situation and in a problem, from a hermeneutic perspective, Minister, very complicated. I don't know what's left of the Criminal Code alive right now...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u161	Mr. Olabarría, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u162	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. ... but I also do not know whether this very important appendix to the Criminal Code - the only country in the world where terrorist crimes are regulated in a separate rule of the Criminal Code - will serve to suppress and prevent a growing phenomenon that concerns us all. Let us think about it and let us think about it among all, because here the propensity to unilaterality is a danger too.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. For the sake of Progress Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be brief, too. I mentioned it earlier when we were talking about the reform of the Criminal Code, but now is the time to discuss it further. This is one of the most extravagant and extravagant legislative proposals that can be conceived: to remove from the reform of the Criminal Code an essential issue in a Criminal Code, such as the criminalization of terrorism, and to present it separately so that things look as if they had nothing to do with it and then to bring in some amendments from the Senate that are not much added. It is true that there is a certain novelty, and you have added the solution to the problem of universal jurisdiction, which our own group raised as an amendment during its procedure in the Commission and then in plenary, but the rest remains exactly the same. Even the name itself is a fraud, a political fraud, because this is thought of by the jihadist threat, which is obviously also - obviously or not, I don't know, sometimes you don't know what is evidence anymore - one of the main threats, one of the most dangerous that the world as a whole today has, not only democratic countries but merely civilized societies, and all this is eluded in the substance of the issue and presents something that adds virtually nothing to the reform that has already been done in 2010 and to other reforms that have followed on the basis of European agreements. Therefore, it can only be described as propaganda, propaganda because there is nothing here: there is neither an increase nor a commitment to improve material means for something fundamental in the prevention of a phenomenon such as jihadist terrorism, which is espionage, intelligence, to say it with the most technical name, nor more human means; that is, that there is no prediction of something that would be essential, that is to complete the templates that have been so punished during the crisis by the cuts of the State Security Forces and Bodies, but that they are essential for prevention also within Spain in the face of a kind of diffuse terrorism of an enormous difficulty of prevention. There is therefore no funding, neither human nor material. What is left of propaganda is a complete legal inconsistency, because it is a reform of the Criminal Code that is outside the reform of the Criminal Code that is going to be voted on today and that has been dealt with in parallel, which is something, as I say, absolutely absurd, not to say..., well, I'm going to say it: it is aberrant, because it is obviously an obscurantist maneuver so that we do not know exactly what is being adopted. And of course it's not a state pact, let's stop talking. It is a pact between the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which has previously been very outraged by the reform of the Penal Code precisely because of what it is going to adopt now here, which is to introduce a series of penalties with enormous legal indeterminateness. Another aspect of this reform is the question of legislation, legal uncertainty, the introduction of figures and forecasts which do not have any definition in criminal terms. It's really a hairdo. From here nothing will come out that improves security in the face of the threat of jihadism, nothing will come out that improves - by removing a couple of things - the universal jurisdiction, that improves the rule of law with respect to terrorism, and what there is is an operation of propaganda rumbling, that you do not worry, you sleep calmly, that we deal with, that is really worrying, because when you make these statements without any willingness to take preventive measures, the only thing that can happen is that everything goes very badly. Finally, we cannot support this law, as we have already said in its previous procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr. Llamazares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a black day for democracy, civil rights and public freedoms. We abide by the emergency legislation in which we have discussed the so-called law of citizen security or gag law, the Penal Code or shackle code and now we have in our hands the so-called anti-terrorist law or anti-jihadist law, which is not really an anti-jihadist law. Unfortunately, in this country, we had a dramatic experience of a jihadist terrorist attack and we learned from that experience by equipping ourselves, both in the area of intelligence, in the police field, and in the Penal Code itself, with an arsenal that remains useful and is also an example for other countries that have these problems today. In fact, at the moment the judiciary, our prosecutors and our police are detaining lone wolves, they are also detaining people who are training outside our country, they are arresting terrorists or potential terrorists, so-called jihadist terrorism, without any problems and with enough criminal arsenal to do so. What is it, then, ladies and gentlemen, if it is not an anti-jihadist law on terrorist or anti-terrorist matters? It is a symbolic law that seeks to replace social security with criminal security. That is what this anti-terrorist law is all about, which is harmless to the real terrorists and yet it sets in motion criminal paroxysm for the non-terrorists. Because the most serious of this law, apart from the reviewable permanent prison, the euphemism of life imprisonment, is the definition of terrorism. When terrorism is considered to alter social peace, when terrorism is considered to force or force the public power to do or to stop making a certain question, the terrorist character of resistance, dissent or mobilization is being put on the table: of Gamonal, of the slaves, of all kinds of initiatives that throughout the legislature have seen the People's Party with concern and that today attempts to attack through criminal paroxysm, that is nothing else this anti-terrorist law that forms part, as I have said before, of the tripod: the law of citizen security, of the Criminal Code and, on the larger scale, the anti-terrorist law, which is harmless to terrorists, but which incorporates into terrorism very different figures of social mobilization, of social intervention and of all kinds of mobilization that sees with concern the People's Party and that tries to attack not through social cohesion, not through reintegration into the criminal sphere, but fundamentally through repression as we are seeing today in this reform of the anti-terrorism law. How's the Senate law coming? I think that after the paroxysm only paranoia is allowed and from the Senate comes paranoia, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that one of the amendments has to do with international persecution and we welcome the fact that they plug a hole, but it is that, for example, in the other amendment, when in the Penal Code we have the figure of what is called accomplice and collaboration with armed gang, you introduce, between accomplice and collaboration with armed gang, collaboration with armed individual, ladies and gentlemen. What does this mean? What do you give a judge to fight terrorism? Nothing, it doesn't give him anything. This law - I repeat - gives nothing to judges, police officers or prosecutors to fight terrorism. It gives the People's Party a measure of criminal populism, symbolic legislation that replaces the social insecurity of citizens in the face of the crisis. I do not know what gives the partner, I do not know or will enter into it, but I think nothing, because, in short - and I finish - this law also seeks to legitimize the permanent prison or life imprisonment; life imprisonment which, I repeat, is the civilized formula of the death penalty. We are even more civilized and we civilize the death penalty through life imprisonment and we civilize it even more by reviewing it, but with this we do not soften it, on the contrary, we harden it because we turn life imprisonment into an endless life imprisonment. That is the reality of what the People's Parliamentary Group has put on the table, which is contradictory to the social reintegration that the Constitution says, and also contrary to what we can call a treatment of citizens, regardless of the crime they have committed, that respects their fundamental rights. Life imprisonment does not respect fundamental rights, it is degrading treatment, it is a form of torture and therefore cannot be incorporated either in accordance with the Constitution or in accordance with international law. For all these reasons we are going to vote against the amendments and we also maintain our position against the tripod of exception: the law on security, the Penal Code and the anti-terrorist law, which in our opinion means an authoritarian drift in our country that will not be able to heal - it will not be able to heal - the social cuts. Society is convinced by dialogue and consensus, not by domination or repression. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Llamazares. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mr Jané has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u168	Mr President, Minister of Justice, Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, today the final stage is the adoption of a proposal for a law on unfortunate pregnancy, because the title of this proposal for an organic law on the reform of the Criminal Code is a title that is aimed at the fight against terrorism, and always Convergence i Union, in all the legislatures, in all the debates and in all the specific rules on the fight against terrorism, we have actively contributed. We hate any form of terrorism, we hate any use of violence, intimidation and terrorist methods to achieve whatever the purpose. We have always been against terrorism in all the committees, in all the legislatures, always actively, and we have always warned - we have already done so in the 11-M Commission, we have done so in the Committee on the Interior and in the Committee on Justice - of the risks posed by this new form of international terrorism and that, in view of these risks, maximum consensus, maximum unity of all democrats, of all those who are against terrorism. Therefore, given this premise that has always applied Convergence and Union, unfortunately we must censure the way in which this legislative reform has been conceived. It has been developed in an accelerated and bipartisan manner. It was managed - I see the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior here - at a meeting - not to criticize because I am not going to criticize it, it is to note - with the spokesmen of the Socialist Group and the People's Group and with those responsible for both groups - I see Mr Trevín - of the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Justice and the Ministers themselves, in which a principle of agreement is solemnised. From that moment on, we are called to the rest of the parliamentary forces. It is lawful to do so, but it is not the best system if a global agreement, a consensus agreement, is to be reached, not a bipartisan agreement as will be reflected today in the final vote of this law, which should have been a unanimous vote of all those who are directly against terrorism. Unfortunately, however, the ways in which the agreement has been developed have not been appropriate. In addition to the forms, there are aspects of the content that also make the reform that we are going to adopt questionable, because we were prepared from a criminal law point of view. We made a reform of the Criminal Code in 2010, I was rapporteur of that reform, and I remember perfectly how we already incorporated the framework decision of the European Union to combat terrorism, both in its initial version of 2003 and later in the reform that took place on 28 November 2008, and that reform that culminated in 2008 we already incorporated it in the penal reform of 2010. Today what is intended is to sell with a great title that we are now going to be prepared, but, Minister of Justice, elements of preparation we have, and the Minister of the Interior knows perfectly well the efforts made by the State Security Forces and Bodies, of the autonomous communities with competence in this matter, are making a great effort - and I would like to acknowledge this - in the fight against terrorism and against new threats. Therefore, we are not going to move today that thanks to this reform from now on we are going to tackle these new forms of terrorism, because we already had the instruments. We still agree on some aspects of this new regulation. For example, we share the new Article 578, which in its paragraph 2 defines as terrorism actions that tend to spread terrorism through services or content accessible to the public, the media, the Internet, electronic communications or the use of information technologies. They spread terrorism through these means. All right, let us consider that terrorism, but we cannot consider that it commits a crime of terrorism, as is the case with the new article 575.2, the one who navigates the Internet, the one who accesses, even if in a normal way, certain communication services open to the public, to contents that are on the Internet, to open electronic communications services, that is, that because of the mere fact of browsing, that person who uses the Internet will already be classified as a possible perpetrator of a terrorist crime. Therefore, whoever spreads, yes; who merely sails, no. We must therefore be scrupulous when defining the content of criminal charges. We understand that this hasty reform has not reached the precise content of what we should in any case understand as a crime of terrorism. Similarly, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot share Article 573 in any way. It is an article according to which to certain crimes - fortunately we have already eliminated public disorders - we attribute a concept of the crime of terrorism if they pursue certain purposes and instead we are denied that this is so whenever violent means are used. There is terrorism when there is violence, when there is terror, when violent means are used. We in our amendment told them that we would accept the text if they introduced that caution that there is terrorism when such violent means are used. Even Mr Serrano - who is absent from the debate today - committed himself to the Convergence and Union Group because he understood this reform and understood those possibilities that could remain open and we were told that they would seek a framework of agreement in the Senate. We too had asked in the last debate we had in Congress, we asked for that aspect to be rectified in the Senate, and unfortunately that aspect has not changed. Nor has anything else been changed to which Mr Olabaría, Mr Llamazares, referred, almost all the speakers who have spoken before me. Today there is no different interpretation possible, today the Criminal Code is adopted, the latest reform of the Criminal Code, with permanent imprisonment that can be reviewed as a maximum penalty. Well, when today's reform refers in 573 bis 1.1.a to the maximum penalty laid down in the Penal Code, there is no longer any doubt: we are also applying in this law the reviewable permanent prison, which we understand - Mrs Surroca has already said, who has intervened in the debate on the Penal Code - that it does not fit the principles of reintegration that mark the Constitution, we understand that it does not fit into the legal certainty itself to establish that the penalty is a remission. Crimes require that the applicable penalty be established in each crime, not to refer to what the maximum penalty will be at every moment, that is not legal certainty, that is to legislate badly. Here the Socialist Party has fallen into a huge contradiction. The same day that they are saying no to the reviewable permanent prison they are going to say yes to a terrorist reform that would also take us to that reviewable permanent prison. We understand that this is a serious contradiction that we cannot admit since Convergence and Union. We therefore regret the forms, we regret that it was conceived from that initial bipartisanism and not seeking agreement with all, we regret certain contents of the future reform. Nor do we like article 5773 when it introduces the possibility of committing a crime of collaboration with a terrorist organization or group in a responsible or reckless manner. We understand this is a bad fit for this kind of crime. We believe that this reform should have been adopted differently from the Committee on Justice, not with a single reading, not directly in plenary, not with the urgency procedure, not with these accelerated forms, but with greater serenity, seeking greater consensus and seeking - I conclude, Mr President - legal certainty. Look, on the same day, Minister of Justice, we passed two organic laws, two, which amend the same rule, the Penal Code, with which whoever wants to see what the Penal Code is will have to do a puzzle, go looking: for these crimes there is this organic law, for these others, all this, and in the end, the rest, what we have not modified. It's a sick way to legislate. We therefore also call for rigour, legal certainty and absolute consensus-monitoring when it comes to legislation on terrorism. We cannot share it and will abstain in the final vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. For the Socialist Group, Mr Trevín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally debating the proposal for an organic law amending Act 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on terrorist offences. Its origin was the agreement to strengthen the unity of the Spanish political forces in defense of freedoms and in the fight against terrorism, mainly the jihadist. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which I represent in this rostrum, proposed such a pact to the Government. We are pleased that he has accepted it and we thank him, as we also thank the Canary Islands Coalition, the Asturias Forum and the Union of the Navarro People who have joined him in their final drafting. That being said, it will not be strange for anyone to announce my group's affirmative vote on this bill. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we do so for three other reasons, because the jihadist terrorist attacks are a real and true danger for Spain, because new legislation was necessary and urgent to deal with the new forms of jihadist terrorism and because the fight against terrorism has always been a matter of state since 1978 for the PSOE. Jihadist terrorism is a real and true problem for Spain and the world today. No one, no one with a minimum of wisdom can deny it. The head of the French Government, Manuel Valls, summed it up precisely last week. The question is not whether there will be attacks in Europe, but when and where. Our citizens have the right to their security and the State the responsibility to guarantee it on its own territory and, at the same time, it is obliged to work towards a global response by cooperating with the European Union and the UN to the threats and actions of jihadists anywhere in the world, a world, ladies and gentlemen, which is becoming smaller and smaller. This is demonstrated by the fact that an attack in Tunisia is becoming frightening and painful when it reaps the lives of Spaniards as it has recently happened. Once again we have found that terrorism is the worst enemy of democracy and freedoms. That is what the jihadist action was pursuing in the country where the Arab Spring began: ending democracy and freedoms in a coastal nation of our Mediterranean. New legislation is needed and urgent to deal with the new forms of jihadist terrorists, some of which are very recent, as evidenced by the fact that until 2012 80% of the recruitment of new adherents took place in prisons and worship centres and surrounding areas, but since then 80% of the recruitment process has been carried out on the Internet and on social networks. The battle against jihadism takes place not only on the ground, but also in cyberspace. It's become planetary, even more so. In addition, as the experts Fernando Reinares and Carolina García Calvo indicate, the trend towards both a Spanishization of the jihadist phenomenon and the outbreak of an autochthonous jihadism well different from that known until 2012. It is mainly male, but with an increasingly significant presence of women. They are also immersed in jihadists who no longer only recruit and transfer to Syria and Iraq individuals willing to join the Islamic State, but are also building up operational capabilities, while inciting terrorist acts on Spanish territory. All of this requires new answers. This is the first thing that this proposed law brings: an amendment to the Criminal Code in the area of terrorist offences, to which the entire parliamentary political forces were called for support and discussion. It is essential that this proposal for organic law has the greatest possible support. It may condemn as terrorism the self-training or indoctrination, the individual action of so-called lone wolves, the movement abroad to join or collaborate with a terrorist organization, any economic activity with the conscious intention of financing terrorist crimes and the usual consultation of jihadist pages for the purpose, I repeat, for the purpose of joining or collaborating with a terrorist organization or continuing its purposes, and in no case, in any case, condemn anyone who has not carried out an activity with terrorist intent, as defined by the Supreme Court. Nothing to do with some surrealist interpretations heard today in this Chamber. These measures are being demanded by police experts and judicial officials. Sentences such as those of operations Duna and Nova, with dozens of accused acquitted of belonging to jihadist terrorist organizations, revealed the limitations of the current legal instruments to respond effectively to the new terrorism. The effective Spanish anti-grapes and anti-teraras legislation is not to the same extent against current jihadism. Socialists know that the best instruments to combat irrational and unjustified violence against terror are the effectiveness of police services, the firm action of judges and courts, international cooperation and legislative rules to facilitate the persecution and condemnation of terrorists. Today, with this motion for a law, we face the responsibility that this House has in this fight. Moreover, this agreement to strengthen unity in defence of freedoms and in the fight against terrorism contains other ambitious objectives. It commits us to the victims, with its memory, it commits us to provide the necessary resources to the State Security Forces and the Administration of Justice, it commits us to the new forms of radicalism, especially those that promote xenophobia, and it commits us to jointly promote initiatives aimed at promoting international cooperation and in particular the European Union's progress in the persecution and punishment of terrorist actions, including prevention. Recently, the 28 Ministers of Education of the European Union committed themselves to this. The Union's Commissioner for Education, Culture, Youth and Sport himself has welcomed this political commitment and has advanced that he will prepare a proposal this year so that inclusion, diversity and civic values are at the heart of the new priorities in education and training, in order to combat radicalisation. Attention to the data, Mr. Wert, you must correct and return to Citizenship Education. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote yes to this rule because for the PSOE the fight against terrorism has been a matter of state since 1978, when government responsibilities fell to us and now, when we are in opposition. As Pedro Sánchez, chairman of my parliamentary group, said in the signing of the agreement that illuminated this text: During the last twenty-seven years the socialists have always put the necessary unity against terrorism before any partisan consideration. We have always given priority to the agreement of the Democrats in order to respond effectively to those who use terror, to those who through violence want to destroy our coexistence and end our freedoms. Today, as always, the commitment of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is with the freedom and security of the citizens, who deserve that politicians know how to live up to the responsibilities they have entrusted to us. End of the appointment, as the President of the Government would say. [[Laughter]] The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, ladies and gentlemen, continues where it has always been, with discretion, but also with consistency with what has been agreed against terrorism. We demonstrated this with the Madrid Pact in 1987, with the 1988 Ajuria Enea Pact and with the 2000 Pact for Freedoms and Counter-Terrorism when we were the Government leading the pacts, when we were in opposition to being loyal to government leadership, and we did not even change our minds about the disloyalties and attacks suffered in this area when we were ruling on the part of the People's Party, which today supports the Government. Socialists, ladies and gentlemen, we do not change our principle and we are also proud of it. How are we not going to be if when the rule of law defeated ETA, with the support and suffering of the vast majority of Spaniards and their institutions, Mr Zapatero was president of the government and Minister of the Interior Mr Rubalcaba? We are faced with a question of State, with new security measures that preserve the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards, who are very aware of the cruelty and hardness of terrorism, both internally and in its external dimension. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, our citizens would not easily understand that a large majority of the political forces that represent it are not able to agree on measures that provide better instruments to combat jihadist terrorism, while at the same time homologating us with the rest of Europe and responding to the UN recommendation on the necessary commitment to combat and prevent jihadism. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. If the PSOE were an opportunistic force, if we played just to look good, or if we were to form a party, we would certainly not vote in favour, but we are none of the three things. We are a serious, responsible political force, and above all a party of government, of the next Government, to be more accurate. With that seriousness and with that compromise we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Trevín. For the People's Group, Mr Castillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, just a week ago jihadist terror has once again struck at the gates of Europe. Tunisia's attack has unfortunately added two new Spanish victims. So be my first words of remembrance to the mortal victims of the attack and of solidarity and affection for their families, for those of this attack and for those of all the attacks in Spain and the world. We owe them all the best in the debate on this bill. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by reminding you that as we speak, as we process this bill, jihadism continues to murder. While we continue to discuss whether the increase in penalties or the introduction of two new types of criminal means losing quotas of freedom or limiting human rights, terrorists continue to kill. While some are trying to criticize the speed with which this reform is being dealt with, jihadism continues to sow terror, and this should be the debate, a debate on substance and not on forms, because we are not dealing with a question of procedures, but of wills, whether or not we want it, and for this we do not need to go any further. However, some remain committed to turning around and revolting, to seeking excuses, no arguments or reasons, to try to justify their rejection of this bill. So, on the one hand, there are those who want to convince us that everything is already done and well done, that this reform is propaganda. We are told that the current Penal Code is already hard enough and comprehensive enough to be an effective instrument in the fight against terrorism, also against murderous jihadism. Those who believe in this way, that Spain does not need further legislative changes, should consider that when in September 2014 the United Nations Security Council or last December the European Parliament adopted recommendations on this matter, they should be implemented by other countries, but not by Spain. Unfortunately, as much as the experience of the fight against terrorism in Spain has enabled us to have effective criminal legislation in the response to terrorism by armed gangs, the fact is that this regulation does not apply equally effectively to jihadist terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is the European country that, after suffering one of the worst jihadist attacks - 192 dead and more than 1,500 injured in the terrorist attacks of 11 March 2004 - has recorded more police operations against Islamist terrorists in the last ten years. With the experience we have in Spain, which unfortunately is a lot, it is easy to understand that when the State Security Forces and Corpses stop, but judges cannot always prosecute those who intend to commit terrorist crimes, it is precisely because there is no adequate criminal type or legal support that makes it possible. The truth is that this basket has holes, holes in which those who seek to impose terror on our society are cut, and this is what we want to resolve, that with the appropriate changes in our criminal legislation we can meet those needs, ultimately facilitating that research and prevention work is truly effective, that with all guarantees, with full respect for human rights and the rule of law, we are able to further strengthen actions against terrorist threats. It is with this effort that the Ministries of the Interior and Justice have been working for months on the legislative reforms necessary to deal with the peculiarities of the jihadist phenomenon, counting on the opinion of experts and, of course, the advice of the best specialists in the field of counter-terrorism. We haven't come here to venture criminal types or experiment. What we have brought here is not the result of elucubration, it is the result of a police field work and a profound jurisprudence. The conclusions of this intense work are that, in addition to retouching, improving and polishing, it was also necessary to equip our judges, prosecutors and State Security Forces and Corpses with the necessary legal instruments to overcome jihadist terrorism. It has also been made an excuse not to be in the pact or to sign this reform proposal, which with it we intend to harden the penalties. That's right. With this reform of the Criminal Code, in some cases, we seek to tighten the maximum punishment provided for or to ensure that the maximum penalty of deprivation of liberty provided for in the Criminal Code is always applicable to terrorist offences resulting from death. It seems to us to be totally right, proportionate and responsible, even though some treat this as cruel reform or revenge from the point of view of opportunism. The only cruelty that exists is that of terrorists when they kill, torture or show a video of how they burn a person alive to terrorize the population. The only cruelty is that of the jihadists, who have already killed more than 200 Spaniards all over the world. That is our great concern and it should also be everyone's concern. The excuses that we were able to hear today in this session do not end here. Some groups also consider that they should reject this proposal because it incorporates new criminal figures and provides for unconstitutional measures, which undermine human rights and limit freedoms. The main reason they are trying to show their discontent is that they consider that guaranteeing the safety of citizens is to attack freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against terror is the clearest way to fight for democracy and freedom. I ask you to reflect on this, among other things, because I am sure that the vast majority of society - also the one that you vote for - thinks that in the face of the growing terrorist threat there is a need to strengthen security. Because insecurity does not guarantee freedom at all, but the opposite; security is a necessary condition for freedom and democracy is not possible without freedom. Thus, addressing those who, under the excuse of human rights and fundamental freedoms, reject this reform, I will remind you that acts of terrorism are aimed at those fundamental values that constitute the core of our civilization: freedom - in particular, freedom of expression - pluralism, democracy, tolerance and human dignity. For this reason, the barbarism that terrorism represents requires strengthening preventive actions in the face of the challenge of unreasonability and violence, because it is the citizens and not the terrorists who have the right to live free from fear, whatever their opinions or beliefs. What should concern us is not respect for the freedom of murderers, but respect for the rights of citizens, which requires the defence of freedom against terror. They therefore support a reform that seeks to defend our common values of coexistence and to protect all people from any violent act based on ethnic or religious motives or racism. This also means fighting against the enemies of our values. They support a reform which Europe considers to be an example to follow, as was highlighted last week in this House by the first Vice-President of the European Commission, Frans Timmermans, commending the historic state pact to combat the jihadist terrorism that we have arrived at. As he pointed out in his appearance, it is very important that the international image and projection that is going to be transferred from this agreement, being convinced that it will be echoed in Europe. Thus, while some minority forces represented here are only criticising this pact, Europe is reacting to the global threat of jihadist terrorism by announcing more security measures and new laws, putting this reform as a reference model to be followed by its firmness and effectiveness in addressing a global strategy against this scourge. For this reason, the President of the European Council has just appointed Spain as rapporteur of the future pact which he will soon sign between all the countries of the Union to combat the jihadist threat at international level. Before concluding, I would like to point out that we have incorporated a technical correction into this proposal by correcting an error of numbering in an article. I would like to conclude by reiterating our call for unity, a unity against terrorism that, without harming anyone, benefits us all, democrats and society as a whole; a unity that must not be limited to a unanimous rejection of terrorism, but must go further. That is why we in the People's Parliamentary Group have originally wanted this to be a shared project, away from any exclusionary approach, without anyone having to give up their identity or their speech. An initiative that is born as a result of exercises of dialogue, consensus and unity against terrorism, as evidenced by the fact that it has incorporated into the text of this initiative proposals that have been made by certain groups of the House. An initiative that starts with the agreement of 78% in Congress and 92% in the Senate; a support that however we would like it to be shared by all the democratic forces in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it. I sincerely believe, from the utmost respect, that there is no excuse to turn our backs on citizens on a subject as serious and sensitive as the one we are dealing with today. The memory of the victims must be a solid link in order never to forget that our obligation to those victims and to Spanish society is to increase our capacity for agreement and understanding. That is why I ask you now to make that effort. We are in time to send together a message to society that reaffirms that our rule of law is working and that it will continue to act as a guarantor of the fundamental rights and freedoms of people and, thereby, against terrorism comes from wherever it comes from. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u174	Discussion of the entire draft law of the National Civil Protection System. For the presentation of the bill, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. I go to this rostrum to present the draft law of the National Civil Protection System. As you certainly know, in the current law, Law 2/1985 of 21 January on Civil Protection, a first and positive normative framework for civil protection in Spain was established. The current law has been supplemented by numerous subsequent regulatory provisions, some as important as the basic civil protection standard or the basic self-protection standard, while different basic planning guidelines and emergency plans on specific risks have been developed. [[The lady]] In addition, it should be remembered that this rule, the current law of 1985, precedes the current development of our model of autonomous state in the field of civil protection and precedes Spain's accession to the European Union, so I will then briefly comment. It is clear that the evolution of potential risks and the means to be employed, as well as the changes in the approach and organisation of civil protection services, suggest an update of the legal framework in this area, with an emphasis on prevention, as well as on the integration, coordination and efficiency of the actions of the different public administrations in the field of their competences. Ladies and gentlemen, this project aims to strengthen the mechanisms that will enhance and improve the functioning of the National Civil Protection System in the event of emergencies and disasters and, at the same time, to enable better implementation of the commitments made at international level and in the European Union, while updating and ordering the scattered legal framework that we have in this area. There is also a qualitative leap of first order to consolidate the functioning of a national system, respecting, as it cannot otherwise be, the existing jurisdictional delimitation between the State, the autonomous communities and the local entities - it is clear that when I speak of the State I do so within the meaning of article 149 of the Constitution -. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that we have passed a law such as the one in force in 1985 - a good law, but that it needs, after thirty years, a thorough updating, a law defining for the first time the civil protection policy in our country - to process a bill that, together with containing for the first time in our country the definition of the civil protection policy, will regulate the appropriate instruments to be able to implement it, instruments that are precisely those that are integrated into the National Civil Protection System. It has been possible to make this qualitative leap because, during the thirty years of the 1985 Act - so far - there has been a great deal of regulatory development in this area, both in the area of state regulations and in the autonomous sphere. At the same time, there has been its own activity in this area in the European Union, as well as new means, new instruments for the management of public policies, such as strategies, without forgetting, of course, the important work of volunteers in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, let me focus briefly on the material content of the project. The draft, in Title I, defines civil protection as described in the case law of the Constitutional Court. Civil protection, as an instrument of public security policy, is the public service that protects people and goods, ensuring an adequate response to the various types of emergencies and disasters caused by natural or human-induced causes, whether accidental or intentional. This is article 1 of the bill, literally - I insist - the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, because, as your lords know, there is no express reference in the Constitution to civil protection, which gives us an idea of how society has evolved in this area, and I have also referred to these thirty years between the current law and the current law of 2015. Only article 30.4 of the Constitution provides that, by law, the duties of citizens may be regulated in cases of serious risk, catastrophe or public calamity. For this reason, as we know, it has been the case law of the Constitutional Court that has developed over time the concept and the division of competence in this field, assigning to the State the normative and executive powers with regard to the application of the states of alarm, exception and site, the supraautonomic scope of the emergency and, thirdly, the need for national coordination due to the effects or nature of the risk. This is what constitutional jurisprudence has defined. The draft law sets out the principles that will govern all actions of the national system in this field: collaboration, cooperation, coordination, inter-territorial solidarity, subsidiarity, efficiency and participation, which are key points of reference for their logical structuring. The bill also sets out the priorities for public authorities to act in the protection of citizens, such as channelling their direct participation or through organizations, enabling them to be informed about the risks that may affect them, how to prevent them and protect themselves and, if the emergency occurs, to be assisted and assisted within the framework of the legal system and the availability of existing means. I would also like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that article 3 of the draft law defines the National Civil Protection System as an integrator of the civil protection activity of all public administrations, with full respect for their competences in this field, in order to ensure a coordinated and efficient response. The strategy of the National Civil Protection System is regulated and, in particular, the actions of the national system are concrete. These actions focus on anticipation, risk prevention, planning, immediate response to emergencies, recovery - I will say something about this later - system evaluation and inspection, and also on emergencies of national interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I also think it is very important to highlight - and I am sure you will share with me the importance of this incorporation into the draft law - the creation of an Emergency Prevention Fund, managed by the Ministry of the Interior, which is provided from the credits that are recorded annually to the effect in the Law on General Budgets of the State to finance, in the field of the General Administration of the State, preventive activities. Precisely because today we have presented for its eventual validation the royal decree-law for the floods and other natural disasters produced - as you know - since the beginning of the year, I want to clarify that these are reparation measures; they are credits that are financed from the Contingency Fund. Here we are talking about an Emergency Prevention Fund, with the aim of developing preventive activities, such as hazard analysis, risk maps for civil protection, awareness-raising programmes and preventive information for citizens or education in schools. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out to you that the National Civil Protection Alert Network, managed by the Ministry of the Interior through the National Centre for Emergency Monitoring and Coordination in this area, is regulated as a system for communicating emergency warnings to the authorities so that essential public services and citizens are informed of a situation such as the one that motivates the activation of the network. In the area of recovery, I would like to point out that for the adoption of recovery measures - that would be the equivalent of what we have done this morning with the presentation of this royal decree-law - the Council of Ministers, on a joint proposal from the Ministers of Finance and Public Administrations and the Interior, and requested, in any case, by the public administrations concerned, is expected to agree to declare an area seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection, and to determine, through the adoption of that agreement, what measures are applicable within those laid down in the draft law that I am currently presenting to your gentlemen. All this I would like to clarify without prejudice to those who expressly require a reservation of law, such as exemptions and bonuses in both fiscal and social security matters. To understand and say in another way - if I may say so - in the face of the usual procedure that we have been using so far, of a royal decree-law which contemplates all the measures necessary to deal with the damage caused by natural or other events, what is foreseen from now on, if the draft law is approved, is that, at the request of the competent public administration and with the agreement of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior, within the scope of this draft law, by the agreement of the Council of Ministers, it is already determined which aid is intended to alleviate the damage that has occurred in the administration or public administrations concerned and that, in turn, they have had to request such a declaration; so that the mechanism is much faster. I insist, with the exception - as I have pointed out - of those aids which normally - as we have presented today - are adopted and which affect tax subsidies or social security. In that case, it cannot be an agreement of the Council of Ministers on the basis of this bill - in its case law - because they have, I insist, express legal reservation. As far as emergencies of national interest are concerned, I would like to point out that they are strictly the case-law of the Constitutional Court. In such a way that emergencies of national interest, and as expressly stated in the law: One, those that require for the protection of persons and property the application of Organic Law 4/1981, which is the regulator of states of alarm, exception and site. Two, those in which it is necessary to provide for the coordination of various public administrations because they affect several autonomous communities and also require a provision of resources at a supra-autonomic level. And three, which, because of their actual or foreseeable dimensions, require national leadership. The most emblematic case which, as you know, the case law of the Constitutional Court is nuclear disasters. I now refer, because it seems absolutely fair and necessary to me, to the human resources of the National Civil Protection System, to which Title III of the draft law is devoted. I would like to begin by saying that the draft law contains in a very special way that the public authorities will promote the training and development of the technical competence of the staff in this field. To this end, the draft law underlines the importance of the training and the work of the National School of Civil Protection, regulating its functions for the first time legally, including the training of staff in this field in the General Administration of the State and other public and private institutions, in collaboration with the civil protection training centres that may have other public administrations and always - I insist - under the principle of cooperation and collaboration. Title IV refers to some instruments of the system. I would like to highlight, for obvious reasons, the Military Emergency Unit, whose intervention will be requested by the Minister of the Interior and ordered by the Minister of Defence, as well as the participation of the State Security Forces and Bodies in civil protection actions. I am now finishing, ladies and gentlemen, by referring to the fact that our relationship with the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism is also reflected in the draft law. It should be recalled that in 1985, when the current law was passed, we had not joined the then European Economic Community, nor had that mechanism been created. Today it is already necessary to bring to the legal framework what is actually being achieved, but without adequate legal coverage. The title therefore highlights the regulation of this Civil Protection Mechanism for the European Union, both to provide our means when they are needed and to receive those from other countries, if they are needed and requested. This gives our National Civil Protection System, if I may, an extra capacity, such as training for our resources when they leave our borders and the security of international support if needed. All that is worthy of consideration and, therefore, I highlight it at this time. I conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by summarising the main developments contained in the draft. First, as I pointed out at the beginning of my intervention, there is a move from the current Civil Protection Act to a law of the National Civil Protection System, a law that defines the civil protection policy to the design of the system for carrying out that policy. Secondly, civil protection is defined for the first time, in accordance with constitutional jurisprudence. Thirdly, the strategy of the system is regulated. Fourthly, existing instruments that were not regulated as the National Information Network, the National Alert Network, are regulated and, as noted above, the Risk Prevention Fund is established. Fifthly, emergencies of national interest are regulated by law and the competences of the General Administration of the State in such cases of national emergency are precisely established. Finally, but not least, the participation and training of volunteering is highlighted. Before concluding, ladies and gentlemen, there are around 25,000 civil protection volunteers in Spain, in a strict sense, integrated into some 2,000 groups and associations dedicated to this work. I have wanted to emphasize that we speak strictly of approximately 25,000 Civil Protection volunteers, because if we speak in a broad sense there are other very significant volunteers, such as the members of the Remer, the Emergency Radio Network, about 4,000, as well as other entities and associations, which I do not need to gloss in the rostrum for obvious reasons, such as the Red Cross or various NGOs with a very large number of volunteers involved in these situations. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this project represents an important step forward in the systematisation of a subject as sensitive and as topical for citizens as it is for civil protection and which will enable our country, if approved, to be equipped with one of the best orderly and most advanced civil protection systems of today. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u176	Thank you, Minister. Four amendments have been tabled to this Act in full. Firstly, the author of the amendment by the Joint Group, Mrs Jordà, who is going to be the only speaker in that group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are committed to imposing your nationalist and centralist vision of the State and intend once again to laminate the powers of the autonomous communities, subtracting them from any sphere of decision and subordinating it to the dictates of the State Government. This is not the first time I have told you, but they only give reason for us to continue to do so: follow your road map to dismantle our autonomy, which we - I have to tell you once again - will also continue with our particular road map towards the independence of our country. Their policies, ladies and gentlemen, do not correlate with the speeches that sometimes make us believe, for example, their speeches of catalanizing Spain, nor of understanding the Catalans, which sometimes also want us to believe when they say they understand the Catalans. The truth is, no, you're still a centralist nationalist. In fact, I personally believe you can't help it. This law, Minister, is one more example, among many, of what we have in the legislature. They keep trying over and over again to impose a homogeneous framework on an autonomic reality that is heterogeneous. The law of the National Civil Protection System is just a new example in a plan to dismantle the autonomous system. They again obviate the Catalan singularity. The Generalitat de Catalunya has absolutely exclusive competence in the field of civil protection since the adoption of the new Statute of Autonomy. This jurisdiction has also been endorsed by its sacrosanct Constitutional Court. However, they seek to centralize the human and material resources of the autonomous communities, relying on the need for coordination, which in reality means homogenization and equality, which in reality means centralism. Not all autonomous communities have the same competencies. Moreover - although we are not surprised, I have to say - they intend to monitor the action of the Generalitat de Catalunya in the field of civil protection. That is their concept of coordination. When you say coordination, what you want is to monitor; you want the National Civil Protection Commission, in addition to later approving the autonomic plans, also to carry out a prior check. This is why they introduce a pre-requisite for information. They trust so little in the autonomous communities that they need to control them, as if the Spanish Government of the People's Party did not need control. Well, as much as you wish, Minister, Catalonia will continue to develop its own civil protection policies, say what the law of the National Civil Protection System says. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, your presentation has been very illustrative and you have said some things that are true. I am not saying this because it is exceptional that what you say is true, but in this case you have said some truths. In fact, there is no constitutional reference to civil protection in the Constitution, so in Title VIII there is no distribution of specific competences in this area, but it is in the area of autonomous statutes, Minister. Mrs. Jordà told you, and I'll tell you. The Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country grants exclusive powers to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in respect of the protection of the security of persons and goods; exclusive powers. Law 2/1985 of 21 January, which now repeals, came to respect this enabling title of the autonomous competences of the Basque Country which refers not only to the performance of a comprehensive police force, to the Ertzaintza, but also to the civil protection competences of a department of the Basque government, the Department of Interior. However, what are we here for? You have not said it, Minister, but we are meeting another son of the CORA, of the blessed CORA. It is more and more like the Koran than the CORA. And all the children of the CORA, or all the structural reforms emanating from the CORA, produce a bite relevant to the autonomous structure of the State. In this case it could not be otherwise, because, to begin with, the explanatory statement subtly introduces an amplification of the competences of the State which were not provided for in the 1985 Act, but which, by the end of modernity, has come to say, and of the necessary updating of this Act, are now incorporated. The explanatory statement, in its number 2, states that the already consolidated processes of the emergency, foresight, prevention, planning, intervention and recovery cycle incorporate that of coordination. When you use the word coordination, we all understand what you are referring to. Coordination means a violation of the autonomous competences where they are recognised. Coordination, in short, means what we make explicit in our entire amendment, Minister, which is an inextensive amplifying projection of the competences that fall to it. We are not going to refute the statement of the state of alarm and the state of siege which is yours - we always hope that a prudent and restrictive use will be made of these governmental powers - but this is not the case with civil protection powers. The 1985 law already gave the State powers in the field of civil protection in these areas, less in the field of coordination, which is a novelty that you now incorporate in supra-autonomous emergencies or in national emergencies. Now, through this coordination mechanism, you enter into all possibilities of action in the field of the configuration of civil protection mechanisms, all of them, by incorporating the human and material resources that fall within your exclusive competence, correlatingly emptying the autonomous competences so far respected by the 1985 Law on the Protection of the Safety of Persons and Goods. But the thing is not left here - another profile of the daughters of the CORA, who are biting the autonomous state through a process of re-centralisation that we are increasingly concerned about, to the extent that some parliamentary groups are thinking of mechanisms of coordination between us to resist the permanent re-centralisation or rescue of competences - but you, in the explanatory statement, already establish that the operational intervention of the State is focused, above all, in accordance with constitutional doctrine. Do not talk to me about a uniform constitutional doctrine, Minister; it does not tell the truth here, because the doctrine of the Constitutional Court in this matter, first is short and then fluctuating. The Constitutional Court has not always said the same things. In cases of emergency of national interest, the powers of direction and coordination of the Ministry of the Interior and the duty of cooperation of all administrations with demobilizable resources should also be strengthened. In turn, the law imposes an obligation on the State to make available to the autonomous communities and local entities the necessary human and material resources. The relevant expression here is that the operational intervention of the State is not linked to its competence, but is appropriate - and this is the expression that concerns us, Minister - to the possibility that even in non-own competences, by using the expression "mainly" - not in all cases, on all occasions or in all emergencies, whatever its nature, autonomous, supraautonomous or national - you can intervene by means of a mechanism that we could call absolutely discretionary action. With regard to the definitions of what we must understand, and which was previously subject to state or autonomous regulation by virtue of enabling titles that are in own laws and in the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court - which for these definitions also enabled the autonomous communities with exclusive competence in this matter - you, in article 2 of the draft law, define everything. They define the concept of danger, they define the concept of vulnerability, they define the concept of threat. They define it exclusively, they do not admit that these definitions may alternatively be affected by autonomous regulations. They define the concept of risk, define the concept of emergency civil protection, define the concept of catastrophe and define the concept of essential services. The definition of services essential for the penetration of competition in any type of emergency, regardless of their nature or scope, whether autonomous, supraautonomic - where competition would be theirs under constitutional or national jurisprudence - is attributed. By the way, the national concept is somewhat deleterious and it would not be wrong to make it a little better. We continue to analyze the bill and continue with the definitions; the definitions of Title II in relation to anticipation I imagine it would be easy for us to agree between you and me on the notion that anticipation can be made in the autonomic sphere, in the case of autonomic emergencies, or in the state sphere, in the case of supraautonomic or national emergencies. Well, it's not like that. You create the National Information Network on Civil Protection where you also, exhaustively and expropriating autonomous competences, define everything. They define the National Information Network on Civil Protection, configure it, create it; they define the collection, storage and agile access to information on emergency risks, whatever the nature of the emergency, violating and emptying the autonomic competences absolutely, ensuring the exchange of information in all actions of this title. A network that will contain nothing less than a National Map of Civil Protection Risks; official catalogues of activities that may give rise to an emergency of Civil Protection - regardless of the autonomous competences in these matters as well -; computerised risk of civil protection plans, which will integrate them in all the terms laid down in the regulations; regulation is empowered to amplify the competence of the State, insofar as it is not sufficient for the competition that is carried out in the law itself; catalogues of mobile resources; the single national register of emergency and disaster data - an open clause in case it is not necessary or sufficient to compromise the competence of the State - and any other information necessary to predict the risks of emergencies. What else do you want me to say to you about the respect for the competition titles that, theoretically, you link to constitutional jurisprudence? Constitutional jurisprudence that in these terms - I am going to tell you another truth, Minister - does not exist, it does not enable you to reach such a detailed level of regulation and so deplorable of autonomous competences, at least in the area of autonomous emergencies. If there is little, there is an emergency prevention fund, which is very good, but where not only the fund is created, the budgetary availability - which is not bad and we could also talk about the economic concert and how the financial flows are articulated in relation to the creation of this fund - but, taking advantage of the Pisuerga pass through Valladolid, within the emergency prevention fund define the analyses of danger, vulnerability and risk; the risk maps of Civil Protection; the awareness and preventive information programmes of citizens and the education programmes for prevention in schools, an educational subject which they have located here but which belongs to a competence in education, an exclusive competence of the autonomous communities respecting the bases. I do not know whether this precept will be given a basic precept character, but it would have to be done so, and it would still be questionable if you were competent in the field of education and other activities of a similar character. Again an open clause. If the expolating detail of competences is not enough, other activities are discussed in general terms to be determined, I imagine to be regulated. For all the above we have some conceptual doubts about philosophical aspects of the bill, Minister. I don't know why self-protection has to be regulated so regulatoryly. Would you not agree with me that self-protection has a spontaneity component and that self-protection, given the nature of emergencies and their unpredictability, must enable or legitimize citizens to act as they see fit when there are no mechanisms of public action in order to preserve their security, property or life? We are again with this regulatory propensity of everything that happens in life. We've seen it before in the Citizens' Security Bill. Anyway, with you I prefer to talk about a bill of these characteristics than one like the one we discussed earlier, the draft law on citizen security. I see him as more recognizable as the person I consider to be with an undeniably democratic profile, who has at times historically manifested a certain proclivity to intellectual flexibility in order to be able to agree with other groups. I do not know what has happened in this legislature; it can be a transmutation of a religious or ideological nature or whatever, but it is that it does not agree with anyone. It is so clear that this bill is violating competition titles that, as it is not in the Constitution, they are in the constitutional bloc, in the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, that I would ask you to have some of the numerous amendments that we are going to submit to you given due consideration. But do not take this request as it usually does in your parliamentary group, for the sake of inventory. When we ask them to take due consideration, it is not to comfort us when they tell us that they are not admissible - I imagine it is because it is in the nature of things - that none of the amendments we are presenting to them, but to try to negotiate how they can be integrated not from the perspective of an autonomous absorption of all the competences in the field of civil protection, but seeing how these competences in the field of civil protection can be agreed with those which in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, in the Statute of Autonomy of Euskadi and in some others of the new or old generation are provided for as competences of the autonomous communities. If we do not reach a point of consensus on this, we will have problems with the adoption of this bill. They will have to approve it with their own votes or perhaps with those of some other parliamentary group - there are always people who point to these things, Minister - but when we are talking about issues that affect the constitutional bloc, I would be grateful if you would listen to our reflections and take them into consideration because, in the area of civil protection, in a country that, without a solution of continuity, goes from floods to fires, we all have to commit ourselves in the institutional sphere and more even in the personal sphere. If we do not do so, if we do not do it from that perspective, the operational dysfunctions that this can cause will cause disasters to continue to occur in the field of civil protection, such as those that you have glossed out this morning and others of opposite or other kind when the summer and heat that will not be able to be properly attended to as required by the legal order, but above all as required by the safety and life of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u180	Thank you, Mr. Olabarría. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u181	Thank you, Madam President. The draft law of the National Civil Protection System does not represent any qualitative leap from the current law. It is a project that focuses more on security than on coordination, which is the basis of civil protection, leaving aside aspects that today are considered fundamental and that are already being incorporated into the civil protection regulations of many countries in our environment, including France, Portugal or Italy. On the other hand, if Law 2/1985, on Civil Protection, intended to adapt the normative framework for civil protection to the then new autonomous State, as reflected in the explanatory statement, this bill, with amendment to the whole by our parliamentary group, means a re-centralisation, invading autonomous and municipal competences, as the two spokesmen who have already spoken before me have already said. Therefore, we are dealing with a bill that does not represent a substantial change in the civil protection system or a qualitative improvement of the civil protection system, nor is it useful to respond to new needs in this area, nor does it improve the coordination instruments between the State departments themselves that are currently involved in civil protection actions, but shows the lack of respect that the current Government has for the powers of the autonomous communities and the municipalities. These would be some of the issues that reflect the absence of coordination mechanisms, as well as the inclusion of relevant aspects that could improve the system. Currently, civil protection powers are shared in five different ministries and in the autonomous communities, which also have their own security and civil protection departments. The Civil Protection Act includes the Presidency of the Government; the Ministry of Public Administration; the Ministry of Defence, from which the emergency military units come; and the Ministry of Development, on the issue of maritime security. Such an atomized state structure causes civil protection actions to be doubled in many cases and diluted in competitive chaos. This bill not only does not pose a new model, but it does not even resolve this competitive chaos from the point of view of State jurisdiction. In addition, in order to carry out the functions of Civil Protection, it is necessary to coordinate with several technical bodies of the General Administration of the State, which have their competences defined in the risk analysis but which carry it out from an perspective that cannot exactly coincide with the needs of civil protection. With regard to the content of the draft law, it was not understood how the definitions adopted internationally within the strategy for disaster risk reduction had not been used in the most common terms in risk management; on the contrary, the definitions used were not the most appropriate and were not always used correctly throughout the text. Throughout the text there is no mention of the Emergency Network, which has always been an information network composed of very strong volunteers and very closely linked to Civil Protection, working unselfishly since the beginning of the latter. Nor is there any reference to civil protection volunteers, who form the groups in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, nor with a new law of volunteering, with which it would have been interesting to establish some kind of relationship. They say that these volunteers are trained at the National School of Civil Protection, so why are they ignored, Minister? Another point to highlight is the small importance given in this project to the protection of the environment; it concerns only the protection of citizens and their property; in some cases it refers to the protection of critical infrastructures, but there is no mention of environmental protection. This is shocking when, in the latest European and national regulations, the issue of the environment and climate change is recurrent, such as the objective of the Floods Directive. The objective of this directive - I quote - is to create a common framework for assessing and reducing in the European Union the risks of floods to human health, the environment, goods and economic activities. This law, which could bring technological developments for better knowledge and risk management, does not present a single measure related to this issue. It serves as an example of what happens in France with its Law on the Modernization of Civil Security, which in its article 9 states that a decree will lay down the technical rules and standards, allowing for the interoperability of radio communications networks and public service information systems competing in civil security missions. On the other hand, neither are the guidelines set for the future to unify signal codes for the entire national territory in the various risks: dams, tsunamis, nuclear... Nor is anything addressed about the use of social networks, which in the United States have been very useful in recent major emergencies. Emergency management and its relationship with the National Emergency Network includes the development of data models and international standards for their management. Another relevant aspect of the draft law that certainly deserves a positive assessment is the chapter on the Prevention Fund; however, it does not only clarify how it is to be financed but also generates a significant contradiction, since another section of the text says that this law does not generate expenditure. Finally, special attention is paid to the competitive invasion that this reform seeks to achieve. Far from adapting the normative framework to the development of the State of self-government, the draft law aims to discourage those communities that, due to the lack of government activity in this area, have been developing a civil protection policy autonomously. From now on, with the incorporation of the Military Emergency Unit into the evil so-called National Civil Protection System, the State will now have at its disposal an instrument with the capacity to centralize the political command of emergency management from the introduction of the emergency concept of national interest, which develops article 28 of the draft law. In this way, once the emergency of national interest has been declared, the command of the operations will be the responsibility of the State, which will entail a dysfunction in terms of management, since at least in Catalonia all the operating bodies that intervene - firemen, police, health care, civil protection - depend on the Generalitat. In addition, it is, at the very least, questionable that the Military Emergency Unit should assume operational leadership in the event of an emergency of national interest, when the operational leadership should be entrusted to an executive management body of a technical-political and non-military nature, Minister. This bill demonstrates the lack of respect that the current Government of Spain has for the competence of the autonomous communities and the municipalities of this country. The principle of subsidiarity, which is a basic concept in establishing mechanisms for coordination and cooperation between administrations, is essential for applying it to civil protection, given the immediate intervention and from the territorial proximity to any crisis situation. On the other hand, it is evident that there is no exclusive competence in civil protection in some autonomous communities. For example, the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, in its article 132 on emergencies and civil protection, points out that the Generalitat has exclusive competence in the field of civil protection, which in any case includes the regulation, planning and implementation of measures relating to emergencies and civil security, as well as the management and coordination of civil protection services, including those relating to the prevention and extinguishment of fire, without prejudice to the powers of local governments in this field, respecting what the State establishes, in the exercise of its powers, in the field of public security. In addition, in cases involving emergencies and civil protection beyond Catalonia, the Generalitat will promote mechanisms for collaboration with other autonomous communities and with the State. The ambiguities in the drafting of this bill and the obvious contradictions with the municipal and autonomous powers run counter to the constitutional doctrine, which defines civil protection as a concurrent competence between the State and the autonomous communities, depending in any case on whether the specific emergency corresponds to the supra-autonomic interest, which the Constitutional Court itself defines with three aspects; first, when the regulation of states of alarm, exception and site comes into play; secondly, when the supra-territorial character of the emergency requires the coordination of elements other than the autonomic ones; and thirdly, when the magnitude of the emergency requires a state leadership. It is clear that the Constitutional Court defends the intervention of the State in the field of civil protection, but narrowing down the reasons for the intervention, while protecting the competences attributed to the autonomous communities and the municipalities. On the other hand, it is surprising that there is no reference to municipal and mayor powers in the area of civil protection, which were already contained in Law 2/1985 on Civil Protection and the Law Regulating the Basis of Local Regime. Similarly, it is surprising that government delegates can urge the Ministry of the Interior to declare an emergency of national interest, disregarding the powers assigned to the autonomous communities and municipalities. On the contrary, in the view of our parliamentary group, the new law of the National Civil Protection System should provide coherence and complementary elements to all autonomous systems; under no circumstances should it entail their relegation to an accessory role, and less considering that in the absence of any action by the State in this area they have developed a powerful civil protection policy. For the reasons set out above, my parliamentary group proposes, Minister, that the text be returned to the Government for a thorough reconsideration in order to put an end to this re-centralizing mood of the State, which is also reflected in this bill, by drawing up a text that really brings all the experience that the State has accumulated over the past thirty years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u182	Thank you, Mr. Sixto. For the Convergence and Union Group, Mr Guillaumes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u183	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the minister has said that we are not facing a re-centralizing law. Using a very original phrase, he said: as it could not be otherwise, phrase never heard in this House. Well, as it could not be otherwise, Minister, it is, as you have been told, an absolutely re-centralizing law. I will do so with a very civil protection image: re-centralizing by land, sea and air. By land, that is, speaking of strict competences, we find it in article 4, when a strategy of the National Civil Protection System is created influencing all autonomous competences, beyond the declared emergencies of national interest, since it is intended to establish a common line of available resources of each autonomous community and the evaluation of these, without taking into account that not all communities - and another spokesman has said - have the same competences and the same bodies. Catalonia has competence in the field of public security - Article 164 of the Statute - and exclusive competence in civil protection - Article 132 of the Statute - and it obviates the investments that the different autonomous communities make in civil protection and that their risks are very different. It also attacks by sea, in this case we will refer to navigation both on the network and on the Internet as well as in the accumulation of data. The establishment of the national civil protection information network and the national civil protection alert network - articles 8 and 12 - is envisaged. These are two new state instruments that, to feed themselves, their information comes only from the autonomous communities; that is, they are doubling structures. Wasn't that the other way around? For here, in that article, you do nothing but duplicate structures rather than strengthen those that already exist, which would be much more practical. And this regulation also means an air attack, understanding for what is breathed, that is, resources, planning, since the National Commission for Civil Protection now claims that in the autonomic plans - it has been said by Mr Olabaría -, instead of the subsequent approval, ex post, which is what currently exists, there is a new system of prior control, that is to say of distrust in what the autonomous community will do by an ad hoc state agency, preventing or at least monitoring the planning, organization and decision-making power of the autonomic governments. Therefore, Minister, by land in competence, by sea in terms of information, by air in terms of planning and resources, this is a law that is strongly re-centralising the competence for civil protection of the Autonomous Communities. They want to turn our Directorates-General, our Secretariats-General for Civil Protection into pure central government negotiations, controlled from their resources, their funding possibilities, their planning possibilities, etc. In fact, no one has said that the communities have done it wrong. On the contrary, civil protection is usually cited as a clear example of what works best when the Administration approaches people, when the Administration approaches the Administration. But it can be seen that one could say, perifrasing a British phrase about the Administration: Since when is effectiveness a criterion? Since when is logic a criterion for your government? This does not seem to be the case, but rather the centralizing Jacobin model. You have a problem in this model and, as we say in Catalan, you make it look at it, Minister, because this problem is beginning to be great. He doesn't miss us. Today we have seen two deeply decentralizing laws in which the Spanish State invents the concept of negotiation. You know this concept that we have not yet copied some other administrations. They invented the concept of negotiation that means that before they start they have already negotiated what they are going to do. That is, no more or less, what they are doing with this law: obviating the competences of a model of success, such as that of the autonomous communities in the area of civil protection. In line with all this, we are presenting a whole amendment in the hope that things will return to a normal course, which, in this case, Minister, you will recognise to me is a successful course that should never have been abandoned. Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u184	Thank you, Mr. Guillaumes. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Martínez Gorriarán.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Briefly, because my group has not tabled a complete amendment to this law... [[The Minister for the Interior, Fernández Díaz, asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u186	Wait a minute, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. It seems the minister wants to intervene.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u187	Madam President, as a matter of parliamentary courtesy, with four amendments in their entirety, I wanted to answer them, but I don't want to...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u188	I remind the Minister that if he answers them, there will be debate and I will therefore give the floor to anyone who asks me to do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u189	Excuse me...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u190	That you open up a debate to answer them and that I will therefore give the floor to the speakers of the four groups, if they so request. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u191	I'm aware of that, but...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u192	No, Minister, if you have every right. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that I rise to the rostrum because it seems to me that it is binding and of parliamentary courtesy that I, from the Government, on whose behalf I have tabled the bill today, respond to these amendments in their entirety. I would first like to refer to an issue which has been cross-cutting, with greater or lesser intensity, to the four amendments, and which is the alleged invasion of autonomous powers in the area of civil protection and emergency management and, in line with this, also the existence of an alleged or supposed re-centralizing vocation on the part of the Government and in this case by the Ministry of the Interior. As I have read - and it is my duty, of course - the texts which you have tabled in your amendments as a whole, I bring some questions prepared because it was logical to expect you to defend, with some or other arguments, what you have presented in the written texts of those amendments. First, all the amendments, I insist, with more or less intensity and with more or less competence, have expressed that the draft law violates the autonomous powers of civil protection by claiming the precepts they have in their respective statutes of autonomy. In particular, Mr Guillaumes referred to Article 132 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which confers exclusive competence on the autonomous community. Other amendments, as I say, without being as precise as the article of the statute, such as Mr Olabaría or Mrs Jordà, have referred to this or, in general, the representative of the Plural Left, Mr Sixto. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the equivocal character of Article 149 of the Constitution itself and, by mimicking it, of the statutes of autonomy of the first or second generation has the exclusive term, preached in much of its competences. And this has been emphasized by the Constitutional Court in many judgments when it declared that the exclusive adjective is used both in the text of the Constitution and in the text of the statutes of autonomy with a markedly misleading meaning; it has been said repeatedly by the Constitutional Court. It is also sufficient simply to read this constitutional precept or statutory precepts which qualify as exclusive certain powers to warn that exclusivity is without prejudice to the powers of the State or, where appropriate, the autonomous communities in the matter in question. In terms of the Constitutional Court, the scope of exclusivity differs considerably depending on the subject matter in question. As is easy to say, ladies and gentlemen, the assertion of the exclusive nature of a State competence over a matter, without prejudice to the fact that the autonomous communities are responsible for the same subject, is in fact detrimental to the subject of the allegedly exclusive competence. And if I may have a political reference that many of us here know, the Constitution is without prejudice and that is because of the work of a constitutional rapporteur, precisely Mr Miquel Roca - and I say this with all respect and with all thanks to his work - because thanks to those without prejudice the Constitution could be approved with consensus and from the conviction that after that the constituted power and the Constitutional Court would delimit their respective powers. Therefore, let us not use the exclusivity contained in the statutes because that is cheating on the solitary, so to speak, if I may, in colloquial terms. Let me also remind you that we must bear in mind that the technique of exclusivity, understood in its strict sense - that is, as a attribution to a single body, whether state or autonomous, of all public functions on a given matter or sector - is a technique that can be considered exceptional in our general system of competition distribution, and this statement is applicable in a matter such as the one we are talking about: civil protection. Or does anyone think - speaking no longer only from a legal or political point of view but also from a real point of view - what can happen when we are faced with a national emergency or with an emergency that is initially strictly autonomous but that by its very nature evolves and then becomes an emergency of national interest? To some who have spoken from parliamentary groups in Catalonia I can remind you, for example, how in the dramatic forest fires that occurred in July 2012 in Gironinian regions - I experienced that when I was preparing the plan for the evacuation of Figueras, for example - it cost to ask for the participation of the Military Emergency Unit. As I said, I lived it because I was there, at the advanced post of command - I came from Nicosia, where I was participating in the informal European Council at the beginning of the Cyprus pro tempore Presidency in the European Union - and I saw the mayors of the area sighing relieved when they saw the military emergency unit, which provided their citizens and themselves with peace and security. Obviously, the Military Emergency Unit was not activated until the established protocol was implemented, through the Government Delegation in Catalonia and at the request of the Government of Catalonia. Such an instrument, the Emergency Military Unit, was not launched, which is essential in dealing with the disasters or emergency situations that are created in our country. Right now we are seeing it on the occasion of the floods that occurred in early March, especially in the area of the province of Zaragoza, where 450 troops, human resources of the Military Emergency Unit and countless material resources have participated. We have seen how they have contributed to saving people and goods in an emergency. Let's talk about what we're talking about. Mr Guillaumes, do you believe, for example, that if a plan is made for the eventual occurrence of a tsunami in a certain area of Spain, we will limit it to the strict territory of that province or of that autonomous community, or on the contrary we must foresee the consequences that can happen, with feet on the ground and not thinking about other things? Then, obviously, depending on how events evolve, the legal system - for that we design a National Civil Protection System - will tell us at every moment who should intervene, which body or public authority has the competence, who coordinates, etc. But we need to have such contingency protection plans designed because, if they do occur, obviously the citizens who see their people or their assets at risk will not come to say that we have no competence or that the competence is of the other or is of the other. I ask, please, for a bit of wisdom when we are talking about this issue, in which we do not intend at all - not at all - to invade the competences of anyone, but, on the contrary, to structure, to vertebrate a national civil protection system. We are talking precisely about a national system because there are public authorities, such as the autonomous communities, which have very precise competences in the field of civil protection, but the State also has its own, and when the size of the emergency is temporary or of other characteristics and demands it and becomes an emergency of national interest, we must be able to vertebrate all the means and all the capacities that each of the administrations and public authorities have. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a re-centralizing vocation, nor is it a question of establishing prejudices in relation to a matter which, I say to you sincerely, is not there anywhere. In addition, I must say to you with all due respect but with all clarity that it can hardly be held from this rostrum that this project invades competences attributed to the Autonomous Communities when the text that I have presented today has been widely discussed and agreed with the Autonomous Communities within the framework of the National Commission for Civil Protection for a year and a half; ladies and gentlemen, for a year and a half. Perhaps those who have to coordinate internally are some of you. For a year and a half the National Civil Protection Commission has been discussing this project and many observations have been accepted by the Autonomous Communities. The collaboration and coordination between the State administration and that of the Autonomous Communities has been very fluid and the project that I present to you today is the result of the understanding, I insist, between the different administrations involved in the scope of the National Commission for Civil Protection and through other channels that - I repeat - have been operating throughout the year and a half from the Government, from the Ministry of the Interior with the relevant interlocutors of the Autonomous Communities. Therefore, far from being drawn up behind the backs of the autonomous communities, the text incorporates, as I have told you, many of the observations and very correct - that is why we have incorporated them, it would be more lacking! - that have been formulated within the National Civil Protection Commission very qualified representatives of the autonomous communities with competence in this matter, which are almost all of them. As you know, the members of the autonomous communities whose work is in addition to the preparatory work previously carried out by the technicians in this field are precisely represented in the National Commission for Civil Protection. There is - I repeat, and I dare to support it with absolute roundness once again - only one aspect of this bill that alters the competence of the autonomous communities in the area of civil protection. We scrupulously respect the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, and from this point of view, even if it is only briefly, I cannot but refer to the fact that it was precisely this jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court that has been outlining the concept and the division, the jurisdictional delimitation in this field over time, with particular reference to two judgments: one in 1984, the 123, and the subsequent one in 1991. The High Court recognizes the State's regulatory competence, providing and implementing coordination techniques - Mr Olabarria, the High Court - and executive competence, taking over management tasks in all emergencies of national interest. That is where the coordinating competence is established, Your Honor. It is logical that the State should have a prior system and an already organized structure and means for the event of a national emergency, since otherwise it is difficult to improvise a response to a threat, to a risk of such characteristics. The present draft law - I affirm once again with all clarity - does not enable the State at all - ex article 149 of the Constitution - as has been erroneously stated, to assume as exclusive competence the executive direction of coordination and unity of command in emergencies that are not declared of national interest. It could only do so when, due to its foreseeable evolution, it requires national coordination due to the effects or nature of the risk, and this is done after formal declaration, in any case, of that emergency as of national interest. I have already referred to the centralizing and homogenizing vision that supposedly underlies the bill. I must simply reiterate that civil protection, ladies and gentlemen, is a sector in which administrative and political action requires the involvement of all the administrations concerned, with all the resources available, in order to achieve the common objective of great importance, which is to respond - I insist - to this situation of threat and emergency which has occurred. Constitutional jurisprudence precisely attributes to the State the normative power to set up a system that could be called basic civil protection at the national level. In other words, if the national system were not so set up, the State would really be deprived of the power to exercise a jurisdiction that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly recognized. What some of you have described as a centralizing project and in your extensive and homogenising written amendments is not the configuration of a basic civil protection system based on coordination, cooperation and mutual respect for the competences of each public administration. I must say that a model similar to that established by the European Civil Protection Mechanism with regard to the Member States of the European Union, managed by an emergency communication and information system with which national networks could be connected in the future, should it be appropriate, is being followed with regard to networks. The Group of the Plural Left has stressed that this project does not represent a qualitative leap with respect to the current law. By time saving - I think I answered you in the presentation of the bill - I just want to remind you in any case that in what is concrete this qualitative leap, in my opinion, obviously respecting yours, of course, it is in consolidating the National Civil Protection System that the current law tried to put into operation with a tool that is the national system. It could not be regulated because it did not exist in 1985 and now, thirty years later, it does exist but needs its regulation to be operational. Mr Sixto has also said in defence of the whole amendment that we do not refer to civil protection volunteers. The truth is that the Republican Left Group and the Plural Left Group have antithetical concepts about this, because while the Republican Left Group says in its amendment that the Government leaves all civil protection in the hands of the volunteers, Mr Sixto from the Plural Left says the opposite. I think that placing us in the middle of these two positions, of the Plural Left and of the Republican Left, in this matter is surely the virtue of this bill. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u194	Wait a minute, Minister. Please remain silent because if it is not impossible for the spokesmen of the various groups to follow what the Minister is replying to them. So please, ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Article 17 of the draft law includes Civil Protection Volunteers within the emergency intervention and assistance services. Even the first additional provision of the bill states that the public authorities will promote the participation and proper training of volunteers in support of the National Civil Protection System. Having said that, I also say to you that if we go beyond the whole procedure, of course we are open to the fact that in the procedure of presentation and debate in the Commission we can intensify the reference to civil protection volunteers. I can assure you that there without any difficulty we will find ourselves because I recognize, as it cannot otherwise be, the very important role that volunteers in this field play in the National Civil Protection System. Mr Sixto also said that there is no reference to municipal competences. I should like to remind you, Mr Sixto, that the powers of municipalities and mayors in this area are already provided for in the Local Regulators Act, Act No. 7/1985, in particular Article 13 thereof. In addition, there is an additional provision, the ninth, which also makes an express reference to the powers of mayors in this area and in something not minor, as is precisely in the sanctioning procedures. It is therefore clear that there is not only respect, but there is a specific reference, as it cannot otherwise be, to the competences of the local authorities and specifically of the municipalities. [[The Lord]] With regard to what Mr Sixto has said that we attach little importance to the environment, we only remind him of what is said in the current Environmental Liability Act 26/2007, which deals extensively with damage to the environment caused by human activities, as stated in article 1 of that Act itself. This draft law, which I am defending, alludes to the fact that, in the case of environmental damage caused by natural causes, it can be foreseen by agreement of the Council of Ministers, in the terms that it previously commented on in the submission of the draft law, activities of reforestation or environmental restoration together with the other necessary measures. In short - and I conclude, Your Honor, although it might be broader, but for obvious reasons I do not want or should extend - I sincerely believe that neither legal nor political justification is given for the criticisms that have been made of this bill from the perspective of respect for the delimitation of competence in this matter and from the existence of an alleged re-centralizing vocation that exists at all. What exists is a clear vocation to be able to optimize in a rational, adequate and properly regulated way all the capacities that exist in the State, in the sphere of the different public authorities, to deal with each of the emergency situations that we may be faced with in the future, which we do not want, but which we inevitably - and in these days we are seeing in a very special way - before or after all the countries have to face. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u196	Thank you very much, Minister. The Minister of the Interior has, with all right and legitimacy, made a turn against it. Therefore, each of the groups that have tabled amendments in their entirety have five minutes to reply. Mr. Olabarría.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. After the minister's explanations, I am now perplexed. I would like to see this profound innovation in the Spanish constitutional law of the Minister clearly reflected in the "Diary of Sessions", incorporating the concept of misunderstanding into the concept of exclusive competence. Minister, if the exclusive powers are equivocal, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Court, you could claim the thirty-nine which are exclusive and which are provided for as such by the Gernika Statute of Autonomy, but allow me reciprocity. I could claim from the Basque Government, for example, the powers over the Banco de España, because the states are also mistaken. When you establish the expression misunderstanding to penetrate into improper competition areas, which are enshrined by specific titles, by precepts such as Article 17 of Gernika's Statute of Autonomy - which I have mentioned - do not mention to me the misunderstanding or the equivocal character of autonomous competences, because the states have the same equivocal character, and then we would enter into a kind of discourse of exchange of competences between one another that could end in a sort of chaos, of very complex puzzle to articulate. Minister, I ask you seriously, I ask you with the intellectual legal rigour of which I am capable, we will try not to carry out meta-legal reflections or games of words that can lead us to a puzzle in the territorial articulation of the State, which is quite complex so that with these mentions and qualifications we will complicate it even more. If you are mistaken and you claim Euskadi's competence in civil protection, which belongs to Euskadi and is regulated by a Basque law, I will claim for the equivocal nature of the competences in monetary policy the competence of the Bank of Spain for the Basque Autonomous Community. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u198	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. Mr. Sixto.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, this is not about prejudice. Neither my parliamentary group nor the parliamentary groups that have tabled amendments to it in its entirety do so for prejudice; we do so to defend the competition rights of the various autonomous communities. In the case of my parliamentary group, La Izquierda Plural, in which Istituto per Catalunya is present, it is also because Istituto per Catalunya has had experience of government in this matter and is deeply aware of the issues of civil protection, because it has developed them for a long time since the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, it is not a question of prejudice. Mr. Olabarría just told you. You have devoted much of your intervention to weighing or delimiting the concept of exclusivity. Exclusiveness is what it is and when the legislator puts it in the text it means what it means. For thirty years civil protection has been developed by some autonomous communities in a very deep, very sensed and very elaborate way. You have now said that this legal text has been at a negotiating table with the rest of the autonomous communities, because, Minister, you have not been enough time to negotiate with the rest of the autonomous communities and the proof is all the amendments of the whole that are being presented to you today in the House. Of course, my group hopes and always hopes that when it comes to working on the legal texts, in paper and then in the Commission, the necessary improvements that we will see with partial amendments can be made to the rest of the groups. That is how you took it in your speech, although, unfortunately, we have met too many times already with the willingness of the People's Party to engage in dialogue very soon in the presentations. I conclude by saying - in his speech he has also stated - that at the end of the matter it is a question of regulating the intervention of the State, in a matter as sensitive as civil protection, that of coordinating, which we would recommend, that it be more coordinated and that it be less regulated. You have said that the Military Emergency Unit is seen by the mayors at certain times as a great relief. I do not doubt that, but there have also been certain cases in which the intervention of the Emergency Military Unit has not been used to improve the management of the emergencies in which it was, for the simple reason that they were not aware of all the issues that they had to bring or simply of the environment in which they had to move and that is why it is important that the authorities of each autonomous community are at the forefront of the emergencies that are declared, above all for a simple reason, minister, because - refresh my memory and refresh it to the House - how many times has a national civil protection emergency been declared during the thirty years that the current law is in force? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u200	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto. Mr. Guillaumes.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I do not know if in any emergency in Catalonia anyone has addressed you as a state saying: please help me. I guess that meant something must have been doing something wrong with the Generalitat. It is an ugly argument, very ugly, but I am not going to criticize the Military Emergency Unit because they seem to me to be magnificent professionals, as are those of the Generalitat. I'm only going to take thirty seconds to clarify your argument. Exclusive competence of the Generalitat. You in the law define the risks exclusively. That is, the risks will be defined by your law, they cannot be defined from this moment on by an autonomous regulation. Is this basic? Planning. Planning will have to be subject to ex ante control, i.e. it will be monitored before it is done. Is that basic? Training. The training? Is it basic that you get involved in training? Information. The information is centralized. Is that basic? Definition of resources. The State intervenes in the definition of remedies from this point on. Is that basic? Is that coordination? Telling us what time the Director General of Civil Protection and his officials have to go in and what time they have to go out is not exactly basic. You - before a spokesman has said it - asked us sensibly. In Catalonia, forest agents are dependent on the Generalitat; the security police, an integral police, are dependent on the Generalitat; the Directorate-General for Civil Protection is dependent on the Generalitat; firefighters are dependent on the Generalitat; volunteer firefighters are dependent on the Generalitat; and voluntary civil protection is dependent on the Generalitat. If there is an emergency within the territory - it is understood - of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, can I ask you a silly question? What do you do there when each and every agency that has to intervene depends on the Generalitat? And you ask us for wisdom? Answer me this question, because I must have made some mistake that escapes me. I think the example is clear enough. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u202	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. [[The Minister for the Interior, Fernández Díaz, asks for the floor]] Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u203	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Guillaumes, the question you have described as a fool, not me. I have the feeling that you have not understood the bill at all; otherwise, you would not have spoken the words you have said here. If you understood and had studied the bill, I sincerely and respectfully say to you that you did not say what you said here. So clear. On the other hand, the fact that additional means are required or requested in the event of an emergency, which is directed by the autonomous community through the corresponding political authority, does not mean that they are doing it wrong. There is also a European civil protection mechanism and we States are constantly asking for help. For example, when there are forest fires, very advanced countries in Europe ask for airplanes from other countries, they ask us and we ask others. It's not because we're doing it wrong, but because when these emergency situations occur normally the capabilities we have are limited. Interterritorial solidarity at European level works and, logically, must also work at national level. Your Honor, you've described the question as silly, I don't; but in the face of a silly question, the best answer is silence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u204	Thank you very much, Minister. In the course of setting positions on this bill, Mr Martínez Gorriarán has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. My group has not tabled a full amendment to this bill because we believe it introduces some improvements to the previous legislation, but we have also found that it has quite a few shortcomings and we will be submitting partial amendments during its processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez Gorriaran. I thank you for your conciseness and shortness. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Grande has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u207	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking briefly on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to establish a position in this full debate on the draft law of the National Civil Protection System. Minister, I have studied the law. Before you intervened this afternoon, I had some certainties and little doubts. After your speech, Minister, I have some certainty and very much doubt. The four amendments to the whole recorded by the parliamentary groups are essentially based on competitive reasons. The Socialist Parliamentary Group notes in the context of the existing legal regime and, above all, the case law of the Constitutional Court mentioned repeatedly this afternoon - mainly in judgments 123/1984 and 133/1990 - the existence of State-owned powers in the field of civil protection based on the concepts of public security, supra-territorial disasters and national interests. But there are also the powers of the autonomous communities that have assumed civil protection as exclusive competence in their statutes of autonomy. Therefore, we are faced with a clear assumption - and, moreover, it cannot be otherwise - of competing competences. It expressly states in judgment 123/1984 that in the specific field of civil protection there are competing competences, the distribution of which needs to be designed. In our view, this law is the opportunity to make that design necessary for the distribution of civil protection competences. Ladies and gentlemen, more consensus, more dialogue and less fighting. However, this certainty as to competences does not prevent us from appreciating - and many experts and the autonomous communities with whom we have spoken - that there is a certain re-centralizing vocation in this draft law that the Government has referred to the General Courts, such as the fact that a body of political cooperation between administrations has not been formed in the style of a sectoral conference, something that does happen in many other competences that are transferred to the autonomous communities, such as health or education, or even in competing competences, such as that of culture. We have also noted that the functions of the authorities of the General Administration of the State in the field of civil protection have been strengthened and, perhaps, the autonomous powers in this area have not been well defined. In short, it is not - and less so on the part of my group - to place the emphasis on tightening the rope from one end or another to assert the state powers by denying the autonomous, or vice versa; it is to make an effort to place the emphasis on the need for cooperation between all administrations. The need for cooperation and proper coordination of the exercise of their functions by the competent administrations and even with organisations and citizens is not visible in any matter such as this; we must therefore make a consensus effort to protect the safety of citizens. However, these assessments are not enough for us to vote in favour of the amendments as a whole that we are debating today. We believe that the Civil Protection Act of 1985 should be updated by recognizing new and important aspects, such as the Emergency Military Unit regime, the Prevention Fund, the natural disaster aid system and some other equivalents. Having said that, the Socialist Group is also aware that the bill has other deficits, and I will mention a few very briefly. For example, we do not understand very well why the Government and the People's Party have started the house on the roof in a law of this importance, which is intimately linked to other legal changes that seem to be not going to be dealt with or are going to be done outside this law. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u208	I'm sorry, Mrs. Big. Please be silent so that the speaker can be heard. [[Pause]] Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u209	I am thinking, for example, of the law on national security which you have undertaken to deal with in this legislature and which for the moment sleeps the dream of the righteous; or of the law of the third sector and of volunteerism, which has already entered this House, in which when it comes to civil protection volunteers it refers us to this law, in which, by the way and in our opinion, the role of volunteers is taken up in an absolutely insufficient way. Finally, in this draft law, civil protection is structured around a system of duties that is exhaustively described and, in our view, a fundamental perspective, such as the rights of citizens in terms of information, protection and participation, is not envisaged at any time. I would like to announce to you that we will be submitting partial amendments to this effect. That is why we believe it is necessary - and we will vote accordingly - to amend national legislation on civil protection to replace, improve and modernise the 1985 Act, but I also announce that if the Government and the People's Party are not able to exercise sufficient generosity for consensus on these and other issues, we will not be able to reach a final agreement in this Act despite our readiness for dialogue and agreement in a text whose primary purpose is to protect the security of Spanish citizens from disasters. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grande. Mrs Hoyo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking and discussing a lot lately on issues of democratic regeneration. In some ways we say so, of course, but I dare say that in many others we agree, such as the need for citizens to regain confidence in politics and politicians. We all know that one of the most demanding issues for our citizens is that we reach more pacts and more agreements. Sometimes I recognize that it is complicated, given the difference in ideologies and principles. Today, however, with this draft law, we should all ask ourselves a question: does it make sense that we do not agree on such an essential issue as civil protection, the purpose of which is the protection of individuals and property from the various types of threats and catastrophes? The answer from my group, the People's Parliamentary Group, is clear: It makes no sense, because there is nothing more important than people's lives. When we talk about threats and catastrophes, we should not think about borders, we should not think about political colours. The protection of rights as essential as the right to life and physical integrity at a time of serious risk, in an emergency, should cause us to put aside all our differences. I therefore fail to understand the presentation of these amendments as a whole, which are refoulement without alternative text. I can only think of two reasons that really justify it: whether they like to hear the Minister's concise explanations or whether some groups in this House consider that to oppose, and more so if it is an election year, it is to oppose everything, without distinction, which is not only sad but also disappointing, in addition to being opposed to the understanding demanded of us by the citizens. As the Minister has said, this is a bill that responds mainly to the need to update existing legislation, which is now thirty years old, not breaking it, because it has worked very well, but by incorporating European legislation in this area and some rules that had been developed regularly. Its objective is to establish a national civil protection system to ensure the coordination, cohesion and effectiveness of public policies in this area. Its ultimate goal is nothing other than to be able to address in the most rapid and effective manner the emergency situations that may occur for the benefit of those affected, and to this end the six phases or actions of the National Civil Protection System are defined and regulated - anticipation, prevention, planning, immediate response, recovery and evaluation and monitoring of the system for effective operation - and new instruments are created to improve the system, such as the national civil protection information network, the national civil protection alert network or the emergency prevention fund. In addition, the powers of the organs of the General Administration of the State are established, in which the Ministry of the Interior of course prevails, although it is true that it is not the only department involved: the role of the delegations of the Government, the State Security Forces and Corpses and the Emergency Military Unit is also recognized. This, Mr Sixto, is due to the cross-cutting nature of civil protection. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u212	I'm sorry, Mrs. Hoyo, you can't hear either Mr. Sixto or anyone if you follow this runrun. Please, I beg your silence. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u213	The Government and the Ministry of the Interior have been working on this bill since the beginning of the legislature. Many issues raised by the various autonomous communities within the National Civil Protection Commission and by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces have been incorporated into the local administration commission. An important effort has been made to achieve maximum consensus, and it has been achieved, with no technical difference remaining with respect to the essentials. This fact, the fact that no councillor from any autonomous community has expressed essential technical reservations, together with the fact that they have justified their amendments with the same usual rhetoric and without concrete action, is the only thing that makes us think that they are artificial amendments, since they have no basis. The main criticism has been the competitive invasion. In this respect, I would like to say, as the Minister has explained, that the draft law scrupulously respects the broad autonomous competence in this area. As has been said, the Constitutional Court is the one that, through two judgments, has outlined the division of jurisdiction, a concurrent competence where the State has competence in emergencies of national interest, specifically in three cases: when a state of alarm, exception and site is declared, when emergencies affect several autonomous communities or when emergencies, by their size, require a national leadership. The competence of the State in this area has its limits, as do the powers of the autonomous communities, since civil protection is a public security policy. The State therefore has regulatory and executive powers. It is logical that the State should be prepared to deal with a national emergency situation and, in order to do so, it should first have a comprehensive system, structure and adequate means. Article 3.2 of the draft law sets out, in my view, the principles that should govern the actions of the civil protection system: collaboration, cooperation, coordination, inter-territorial solidarity, subsidiarity, efficiency and participation. I could expand further, but I am not going to do so because the minister has already explained the bill very well and has already responded to the various questions raised. However, I would not like to end without thanking the Socialist Group for its position and willingness to reach agreements and contribute to improving this law. I would like to reiterate the willingness of my parliamentary group and the Government hand in hand to reach agreements. We are ambitious about reaching consensus on this issue, and we would like to see a text supported by most of the parliamentary groups. That is why I would ask the groups which have tabled amendments in their entirety to ask for two things: on the one hand, that their contributions be converted into partial amendments and, on the other hand, that, given the subject covered by this bill, they have common sense or, as is said in our land, Mr Sixto, trellat; common sense. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u214	Thank you very much, Mrs. Hoyo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u215	The last item on the agenda is the proposal by the Defence Committee for the creation of a subcommission to study the model of the voluntary military reserve. Can I understand that it's approved by consent? [[Consent]] Well, that's the way it is. In a few minutes we'll start voting. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u216	Let's start the voting. Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 2/2015 of 6 March 2015 adopting urgent measures to repair the damage caused by floods and other effects of rain, snow and wind storms in the months of January, February and March 2015. There are three votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 plus 3 telematics votes, 320; 316 plus 3 telematics votes, 319; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u217	The royal decree-law is validated. A number of groups have requested the processing as a bill by the urgency procedure of this royal decree-law. That's what we're going to vote on now. Three votes have been cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 plus 3 telematics votes, 321; 140; 178 plus 3 telematics votes, 181.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u218	It will not be treated as a bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u219	First, the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. First, separate vote on the amendments to the paragraphs of the Single Article: twenty-eight, eighty-eight, eighty-three bis, one hundred four, one hundred sixteen, one hundred twenty-two, one hundred sixty-nine bis, two hundred twenty-seven, two hundred twenty-eight, two hundred thirty-two, two hundred thirty-six, two hundred thirty-eight, two hundred fifty-three, two hundred fifty-four and two hundred sixty; to the third additional provision; to the fourth additional provision; to the single derogating provision; and to the fourth final provision; [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[now third]] [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 274 against, 19 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u220	They're approved. Amendments to the sections one hundred and forty-nine and one hundred and eighty-nine of the single article. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 181 against 20 abstentions 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u221	They're approved. Rest of amendments to the bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 179 against, 129 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u222	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u223	Overall vote on the draft Organic Law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. There are four votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 plus 4 telematics votes, 321; 178 plus 3 telematics votes, 181; 137 plus 1 telematics vote, 138; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u224	The bill was adopted. - DRAFT CITIZEN SECURITY PROTECTION ORGANIZATION LAW. [[File number 121/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u225	Draft Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security. Vote on amendments. Firstly, amendment to Article 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 292 against, 5 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u226	It's approved. Amendments to Articles 6 and 38. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 290 against 19 abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u227	They're approved. Amendment to Article 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 189 against 120; abstentions 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u228	It's approved. Amendments to article 36 and final provision 5 [[before fourth]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 179 against 119 abstentions 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u229	They're approved. Amendments to the first final provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 177 against 134 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u230	They're approved. Rest of amendments to the bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour 179 against 119 abstentions 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u231	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u232	Overall vote on the draft Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security. There are 4 votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 plus 4 telematics votes, 322; 178 plus 3 telematics votes, 181; 139 plus 1 telematics vote, 140; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u233	The bill was adopted. - DRAFT ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ON THE CONTROL OF ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ACTIVITY OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES, AMENDING ORGANICAL LAW 8/2007 OF 4 JULY 2007 ON THE FINANCING OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES, ORGANICAL LAW 6/2002 OF 27 JUNE, POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES AND ORGANICAL LAW 2/1982 OF 12 MAY OF THE COURT OF ACCOUNTS. [[File number 121/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u234	Senate amendments to the draft Organic Law on the Control of the Economic and Financial Activity of Political Parties amending Organic Law 8/2007 of 4 July 2007 on the Financing of Political Parties; Organic Law 6/2002 of 27 June 2002 on Political Parties; and Organic Law 2/1982 of 12 May 1982 of the Court of Auditors. Separate vote on the amendments. Firstly, amendment to Article 1(3). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 206 against, 99 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u235	It's approved. Amendment to the third additional provision [[new]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour, 309 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u236	It's approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 312 votes in favour, 207 against, 2 abstentions, 103.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u237	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u238	Overall vote on the draft Organic Law on the Control of the Economic and Financial Activity of Political Parties, amending Organic Law 8/2007 of 4 July 2007 on the Financing of Political Parties; Organic Law 6/2002 of 27 June 2002 on Political Parties; and Organic Law 2/1982 of 12 May 1982 of the Court of Auditors, being of the same organic nature. There are four votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 318 plus 4 telematics votes, 322; 194 plus 3 telematics votes, 197; 121 plus 1 telematics vote, 122; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u239	The bill was adopted. - DRAFT RULING LAW FOR THE EXERCISE OF THE HIGH OFFICE OF THE GENERAL ADMINISTRATION OF THE STATE. [[File number 121/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u240	Senate amendments to the draft law regulating the exercise of the high office of the General Administration of the State. All of the Senate's amendments are voted on together, in a bloc. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 195 against, 21 abstentions, 101.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u241	Those amendments were adopted. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIC LAW AMENDING ORGANIC LAW 10/1995 OF 23 NOVEMBER OF THE CRIMINAL CODE, IN THE MATTER OF TERRORISM DELITS. [[File number 122/000189]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u242	Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on terrorist offences. The Senate's amendments are voted on together, as a whole. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 275 against, 20 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u243	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u244	Overall vote on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code on terrorist offences. There have been four votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 votes in favour, 321 votes in favour, 279 votes in favour, 283 votes against, 24 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u245	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u246	Joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the draft law on the national civil protection system submitted by the Basque Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, the Catalan Parliamentary Group and the Joint Group, Mrs Jordà. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Convergence and Union]] There are four votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 317 plus 4 telematics votes, 321; in favour, 34; against, 282 plus 4 telematics votes, 286; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u247	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u248	The plenary of the House has called for the deliberation and vote on this bill. Four votes have been cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 plus 4 telematics votes, 313; 133 plus 1 telematics vote, 134; 174 plus 3 telematics votes, 177; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-03-26-CD150326.u249	It will not be treated as a bill. The meeting rose. It was seven and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
