ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u1	The meeting was resumed. As your ladies and gentlemen know, the votes on the items we are debating today and on those discussed yesterday Wednesday - some of which are organic - will take place at the end of the plenary session. I will point out as an hour that they will not occur before five o'clock in the afternoon. In my opinion, it will be somewhat later or rather later, but what I assure you is that it will not be before five o'clock in the afternoon. Direct and read-only processing of the proposed organic law reforming the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October, for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's resolutions as a guarantee of the rule of law. Three amendments to the whole alternative text and thirty-four to the joint text have been tabled to this proposal. To defend their amendments and stand in relation to the rest, the parliamentary groups will intervene in a single 15-minute shift, from minor to greater. In the case of the Joint Group, as is customary, this time is dilated, as there will be several interventions of the Joint Group. First of all, Mr Serrano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. This will be discussed today is an ad hoc law to intimidate an adult society that wants to manifest its will; a law that pretends to be the truce that crowns the campaign of fear, of the threats deployed in the recent Catalan elections, elections of a plebiscite character; character by which you have forced to opt for the most sensitive political forces, the political will of Catalan citizens. Well, we've already seen the results, fear hasn't worked. These elections of a plebiscite nature but which are not a plebiscite, as you well know, what has become clear is the need to expressly consult Catalan society about what relations it wants with the Spanish State; they have highlighted the need for a referendum, exactly the opposite of what this law of reform of the Constitutional Court seeks. This is a law that, in addition to its dubious constitutionality, will never be able to solve the Catalan problem and can only lead to a dead end to the Spanish State itself. In the face of a political problem, in the face of a popular and citizen's will that wants to express itself faithfully, it does not serve that so tainted by you rule of law. When a legal system clashes with the citizen's will to express himself faithfully, it is not the citizen's will that is inadequate, it is that legal system that is inadequate to political reality. The invocation of the rule of law is nothing but a reflection of authoritarian mentality and of the inference to gag the will of the citizenry, although this leads to the putrefaction of the system itself, which is intended to defend itself. What dictatorship, what authoritarian regime has not invoked the rule of law as the last argument in the face of growing public and citizen tides for obtaining political and social rights? Didn't Francoism do that? And what had to be done with the franchise? It was necessary to renounce that rule of law, precisely because it clashed with popular and citizen reality, with the democratic will of societies. Well, current ladies and gentlemen of the rule of law, that same and not another is the end that awaits your empire sooner or later. They save agony, suffering and insecurity for Catalonia and the entire Spanish state. Give up this law and adjust the legal system to the new political realities as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. Mr Salvador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. As the President has said, thirty-seven amendments have been tabled. We are not going to support the abolition amendments which do not propose any alternative and therefore pretend that nothing is done, nor those which seek to go back to what there is, because it is obvious that what there is no longer serves, nor those which, by taking advantage of this procedure, propose that some autonomous rules be removed from constitutional control. We are going to support, albeit in a witness form, those who present UPyD and who incorporate a new procedure for the offence of non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which seems to us to be an interesting proposal, and also that which presents Forum and which speaks of a hearing procedure in the system which incorporates the proposed law. Even, without precedent, we are going to support another amendment by Esquerra which seeks to ensure that members of the Constitutional Court are not seconded to any political party. Let me tell you that we find it incoherent to say that the adoption of this bill will alter constitutional balances while at the same time calling for non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We find it incoherent to recognize that the Constitutional has the power to annul the laws and at the same time to celebrate that it does not have the capacity to enforce its own resolutions, as we find it incoherent to affirm that our system already has the means to prevent non-compliance with the Constitutional resolutions and at the same time to strive not to apply the same system to non-compliance. It is curious, in any case, how some groups who said that with a 51% majority of the seats in an autonomous parliament such as Catalan can declare independence deny this Parliament legitimacy to modify the capacity of the Constitutional Court to enforce its resolutions with the same percentage or more. In conclusion, allow me to comment on the elections. I believe that the 27-S is going to be a turning point between the division and the desire to share a common project, 47% compared to 52% that until last Sunday seemed to be engaged in covertness. Even the most radical of the CUP, cunning as snakes, see that the strategy of division must change of air and geography. Now it is time to lower the piston, at least until December, analyze what has been achieved, collect the piece - perhaps Mr Mas - and transfer the witness of the conflict, as in a relay race, to Navarre or the Basque Country. Ladies and gentlemen of Convergence, I told you a week ago that Amaiur and his CUP partners live out of the conflict, rejecting normalized coexistence among the Spanish. I told them that, with their support, their hopes would be corrupted and that they would not be welcome to Europe. I repeat it again today; they do not believe in coexistence or democracy, they do not tolerate the difference, they need conflicts to be perpetuated because, if not, they would have to stop living from the story. They mock the law, they despise it, as did the representative of Amaiur here in the last debate in a scene that reminded me of something that Gila said of that army that had no tanks but had a 600 shot by a dwarf; he did not kill, but he insulted; he did not kill, but he demoralized; a real caricature, but still with the ability to attract and of course determination in non-compliance. If we want, ladies and gentlemen, terms in a society of progress, we will have - and they will also have in Catalonia - to choose between their company, always united to live in a permanent conflict with others and with themselves, or the company of others. For that to be possible, of course I want you to choose the company of others, that is the most beneficial thing, but, as I say to you, you must and must accept that we must all comply with the laws that we have given ourselves among all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Álvarez Sostres. Mr ÁLVAREZ SOSTRES: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago this House approved the proposal for an organic law for the enforcement of the Constitutional Court's resolutions as a guarantee of the rule of law. Many have been critical of this reform both in form and substance. On that occasion I said that the forms have not been appropriate. This debate should have taken place earlier, further away from the end of the legislature, without the urgency that arises from the procedure itself and as a bill that would always entail the necessary reports of the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary; ultimately, from a debate not to rebuttal of a radicalized electoral scenario. So far, okay, but if we go to the bottom of the issue, we do agree that reform is timely because it is a far-reaching initiative for the democratic building in the light of the experience of these years of constitutional development and the sovereignist political dynamics. The truth is that we have witnessed a systematic breach of many Constitutional Court resolutions in order to achieve political objectives of secessionist court, perhaps the most serious, though probably not the most ardent, violations of the school world, of the educational world, in the matter of organic laws with the indolent and irresponsible attitude of socialist governments and governments of the People's Party. In the world of school, ladies and gentlemen, it is the germ of all or almost all the countervalues of this sovereignist spirit, of this secessionist spirit, opposed to the value of the unity of Spain, opposed to the value of the common homeland and of the Spanish being. I thought it appropriate to present two amendments to this text. The first concerns the supplementary scope of the rule. It is not well understood that, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the enforcement of resolutions, the supplementary application of the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction Act, which may be the slowest rule in the legal system, is available. It is a paradox that seems opportune, appropriate to suppress. The second concerns the scope of provisional suspension, increasing the individual guarantees of the suspended person with the hearing procedure in relation to the right to defence and effective judicial protection provided for as a right, as you well know, in article 24 of the Constitution. It seems most appropriate if we are talking in addition to a court that understands and guarantees rights and freedoms. It has not been considered - or I have not been told that it has been considered - this possible improvement, but in any case the initiative is too important to reject it simply. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Sostres. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. The other day, I began my speech by telling them that they had recently passed legislation with an urn in their heads, as they have done with this reform of the Constitutional Court, making it in full Catalan electoral campaign and also presenting it not with a congressional deputy, but with a candidate just from the People's Party, Mr Albiol, who is not even a deputy. For the time being, the move has gone wrong in judging the poor results achieved by the PP and Mr Albiol in these elections. I think there's a word from the flaming senator Rita Barbera that somehow sums up well the result you got on Sunday night. This reform is a real misconception and should not have arrived here, a misconception both in form and in substance; in form because a reform that basically affects fundamental rights and the balance of powers has been dealt with by the urgency procedure without the decision of the General Council of the Judiciary or the Council of State to avoid a more than likely unfavourable report. They have drawn the calm and rigorous debate in Congress, preventing it from going through a presentation and a Commission, and in just fifteen days they will approve it. It is a misconception in substance because, as prestigious constitutionalists have pointed out, with this wording even the Constitutional Court could manage to dismiss the same president of the Government, violating the same Constitution, which only establishes as grounds of dismissal the motion of censure, the question of trust or the elections. And let us not expect that this already exists in other countries, because in all serious countries there is a fundamental difference: in all cases, inexcusably, there must be an authorisation from Parliament. Moreover, this reform does not define the time for suspension of office and prevents the exercise of the right to second instance. Whom could a person whom you would suspend from your duties? To the Constitutional Court. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real legislative nonsense - another more - perpetrated again with the loneliness of its absolute majority, achieved - let us remember it now that so much has been said about figures in the last two days - with 44% of the votes. Let's remember, 44% of the votes. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we have spent the whole legislature talking about inheritances received and you are going to leave us an inheritance that we cannot and do not want to accept, which we categorically repudiate and which we undertake to repeal in a few months' time, when there is a new parliamentary majority and a diverse, multicolored Parliament, and above all, now that we finish the legislature, with a will for consensus and dialogue. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. I now give the floor to Mrs Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we said yesterday that the Catalan issue was not resolved by court rulings, that the Catalan case is a political matter, that it was born after a ruling of the Constitutional Court that should never have been produced and that had to be resolved by state policies. During these four years, a reform of the Constitution has not been adopted, not just because of the Catalan theme, but because it has been thirty years: society demands it, this country and other autonomous communities, such as the Canary Islands, which consider that it has to incorporate into that Constitution what is already contained in the European Constitution with regard to the Canary Islands; there has been no reform of the autonomous financing system and no respect for Catalan language and culture has been assumed. Today it is not finished with the result, it is interpreted as interpreted, forty-eight hours ago. There are those who interpret that they lost their yes to independence and those who interpret that they have a majority and a endorsement and that we must not underestimate that long million, almost 2 million citizens, who said yes to independence. Today is the day after and the problem is not over. You can't assume that image of yesterday from a president of Spain saying: This is an issue that you have to have your times; tranquility, patience. No, sir. There is a fully divided Catalan society, family and friends of Catalan society itself divided, and there are difficulties in constituting a government that manages the daily problems of Catalans. And we have a state issue and an election campaign. What cannot be admitted is that a body such as the Constitutional Court should be used to solve political problems. If we have to reform the Constitutional Court, the Government and the political forces of this country we sit down and talk about it, but we cannot legislate such an important body for a specific issue, which has other solutions, such as policies; it is not resolved through sentences, arrests or suspensions of functions. Today I want to say here that at the moment we must have political heights. We must commit ourselves not to using an issue that breaks down an entire community, but also a country, as an electoral weapon in a forthcoming election. We must commit ourselves to the Catalan citizenship, but also to the Spanish citizenship, not to use this issue as an electoral weapon, to stop this and to have intellectual and political capacity in order to be able to channel into the next legislature not only the greatest right and self-government that the Catalan community and many other autonomous communities have, but also the respect for culture, the uniqueness and the right of all citizens of this country to receive the same benefits, especially in social matters, with an adequate funding system. It requires the political height of all the political forces in this House. Of course, this is not resolved by an express amendment of the Constitutional Court made as a result and as a threat so delicate to our country at this time. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. I now give the floor to Mrs Fernández Davila.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to defend the three amendments tabled by our group, the BNG, which are intended to maintain the drafting of the current Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. This is an improper reform of democratic rule of law states, as they are created under the principle of impartiality. In this case, a reform is addressed in a short-term manner and in order to penalize those who are considered to be political enemies. We find particularly serious the powers conferred on the Constitutional Court in this article, with regard to the enforcement of judgments. It seems to us grave, above all, because no interest has been claimed or expressed in this amendment of the law, either by the Constitutional Court or by any other judicial forum, and because this reform is unique and exclusively in the electoral interest of the People's Party. In fact, if we refer to the words of the person presenting this reform before the register of this House, which is the candidate for the Catalan elections, obviously the context is totally electoralistic and, moreover, demonstrates the lack of capacity of this Government to address a political issue such as that raised not only by the various Catalan political groups, but also by the Catalan Government, but above all by a very important part of the Catalan population. What's more, it's 47%, 48%, 49% or 50%, ladies and gentlemen! On Sunday it was shown that a very large number of Catalans and Catalans are demanding that right to decide, because they proved it, because the political forces that asked them to vote told them it was for that purpose. Therefore, this cannot be resolved, as this Government claims, using punitive measures. No, ladies and gentlemen, this must be done from the point of view of political action, dialogue and, in addition, of the recognition of the citizen's right to claim, as the Catalans do in this case, the right to decide. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that once again the Government of the People's Party, and therefore the group that supports it - which, moreover, is proposing this amendment of the law - shows its inability to engage in political dialogue, its inability to deal with political problems from the point of view of politics and, once again, it uses the punitive aspect to deal with those problems. That is why, as on other occasions, what this Government and the People's Party are doing is aggravating situations, aggravating political affairs and making them a problem. What is really a problem is this government, it is the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, with our position against this reform of the Constitutional Court's organic law, what we are doing is also a censorship of the way in which the People's Party and its Government act, and we therefore call for a change in this policy that is contrary to the interests of the social majority, and a political solution or a political approach to the Catalan issue in order to have the best possible solution; without forgetting that majority of Catalans - or that almost majority of Catalans - who are rightly demanding that their demands be met and that recognition be given to deciding on what they want to do in their future, which this Government and this House denies them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the Joint Group too, Mr Tardà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u13	Encourage, encourage, Members of the People's Party, because they have little left to finish turning the Constitutional Court into the executioner of democracy. Encouraged, that you are already about to sing bingo in a game that you and the Socialist Party started a few years ago, many, to turn the Constitutional Court into an organ corrupted by partyists and with judges acting on their dictates, on the dictates of the People's Party and on the dictates of the Socialist Party; a Constitutional Court that automatically suspends autonomous laws, when so required by the Executive through a challenge. By the way, today they will reject our amendment to the whole with an alternative text that calls for the autonomous communities to be able to do the same. And now a new trap, a new fraud, a new threat basically directed against Catalonia. New arsenal, therefore, against the Catalan democratic process, after that already used of all calibres, such as the insult made in Felipe González, associating us with Nazis and fascists - it is necessary to be miserable to say what he said - and that none of you, no one in the Socialist Party has denied. Mr Sánchez was not ashamed to deny Mr González. Of course, as he spoke of Catalans, everything is possible; bar free. Another insult: declaratory terrorism that of Mr Linde, shameless, announcing a corralite to sow panic and condition the vote and then say that, of the said, nothing. Another insult: kidnapping the right to vote. Thousands of Catalan citizens have not been able to vote because it was designed by the government sewers. Another insult: the whole outside apparatus in exchange for what is not known for leaders from all over the world to pronounce so that it became quite diffused. Non-democratic devices, such as forcing the translation of a Council of Europe document into Spanish into English, to the effect that it might seem to coincide with the interests of the Government. Finally, typical and topical dirt of tahurs. And now, moreover, the perverse use of the judicial system in order and effect to be able to impute to the president of Catalonia, and above all they elect on October 15, when the 75th anniversary of the shooting by the Spanish army of the president of Catalonia Lluís Companies is celebrated. By the way, neither the PSOE nor the PP have ever had the dignity to denounce the very summary sentence that led the president of Catalonia in front of a Spanish army platoon. Now, with this reform of the Constitutional Court they want to complete the cycle of regression. Well, we wait for them; we have no fear of them, which is obvious. Behind each of Catalonia's democratic leaders are hundreds of thousands of democratic citizens. Are they going to impute us all? This reminds me of Berlanga's film, everyone in jail. You're out of your minds. [[Mr.Puche Rodríguez-Acosta: You are crazy!]] They will not win, because democracy is unbeatable, but apart from not accepting it politically they are very short, politically they are very short, yes, because in the European society of the twenty-first century, where everything begins and everything ends in democracy, one cannot think that today it can be doubled to a citizenship that has been expressed mostly. [[Rumors]] I remind you that you have been beaten up and that you too have been beaten up, and that there will be a sovereignist majority in the Parliament of Catalonia that will carry out democratically, to the Catalan, peaceful and civically, what you will have to accept if you want to... Yes, laugh, laugh; you will be frozen in laughter as the people of Catalonia progress democratically. [[Mr.Abad Pérez: And so are you!]] [[Rumors]] [[Mr.Abad Pérez: You have also given it to him!]] I repeat, we are not afraid of them. They can already build prisons; they can already build prisons.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u14	Thank you, Mr. Tardà. For the Joint Group, Mr. Quadra.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, disappeared and absent, although this debate is of no greater importance. [[Laughter]] We have already said this fifteen days ago: the Government is bringing us this express bill so that we can get into the Catalan process. He needs submissive robes and beers to jump above the will of this people. I also pointed out that on the part of the People's Party the Constitution, the Constitutional Court and the laws are understood as a gum that shrinks and stretches to convenience; what happens is that from so much chewing it has become a sticky thing that needs to be thrown away, and the rule of law has become a waste state. That's how we see it. The Catalan Parliament adopted in its day a statute that was brushed here in Madrid with the Socialist Government; then another step was taken to make it unrecognizable by the Constitutional Court, which also annulled the Law on Consultations democratically approved by the Catalan Parliament. And today even the president and two councillors are being prosecuted and it seems that they are being taken to jail. To all of this, with a certain coveting - I would say -, yesterday, President Rajoy called it acting fine. In recent years, the Catalan people, millions of people, have gone out to the streets and to the polls expressing their desire to conquer freedom, sovereignty and independence. And throughout this process this people has walked at all times with their hands stretched out, with their hands open, exposing reasons and bringing votes and ballot boxes. And in the face of that, the answer given to it by the PP government from Madrid has been no, rejection and imposition. The Catalan people in these years, as the poet Antonio Machado said, have made their way along the way. And as the poet also added: and this people today, when looking back, sees the path that will never, ever, ever again tread; the path of the imposed unity, of arrogant centralism. That is what the Catalan people are saying today. You have stuck an electoral baton in Catalonia as you have not known it in the last decades and, despite everything, it is wrong that it is wrong: legality, legality, legality. Of course, its legality, not the democratic legality of Catalonia and its Parliament, but the uniform, the centralist legality here in Madrid. This is what you proclaim. They want to impose through cheating laws and rigged courts what they have not achieved there nor are they getting by the votes, by democratic means. Gentlemen of the PP and also you, gentlemen of the PSOE, your laws and your courts are more rigged than Volkswagen cars and are polluting everything you go through, from a democratic point of view. You only know how to play with marked cards, with judges, with arbiters bought. You want to always play by hand and above reserve yourself to have an extra discard, and so you can't play, this deck you have to throw it away, you need a new democratic deck. Fifteen days ago, from this very stand, I pulled out without more than two sheets of a copy of the Constitution. They referred to articles that we completely rejected, which speak of the unique and exclusive sovereignty of the Spanish people, the indissoluble and indivisible character of that nation and the army as guarantor of all of the above. I took out those two leaves. You, and you too, have taken quite a few pages from your Constitution in the past years, that of article 35, which refers to the right to work, that of article... [[alternatively pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u16	Mr. Quadra, I have not referred, but you have, to your attitude the other day. I asked you then, and I repeat it now with the support of the Bureau, to withdraw the gesture you made on 16 September. I'm asking you to remove it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u17	What does this intervention have to do with the reform of a law now?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u18	As you have taken it out and referred to it, I ask you - because we return to that gesture - to withdraw that gesture you made because you offended. I insist, here there is freedom to say what you want and I have always defended it, but it cannot be offended. You offended with that gesture and you've talked about it again. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw that gesture.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u19	And I ask you, Mr President, to let me finish the speech on what we are discussing, which is the reform of a law, and then I will give you my opinion on that subject.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u20	Well, you finish your speech, but at the end I'll ask you to withdraw that gesture. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u21	He referred to the fact that there were quite a few pages missing in that Constitution: the right to work, the right to housing, the right to adequate and dignified pensions. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Come on!]] These pages are also torn apart, and here it seems that the only existing offense is the one I made. It is not considered an offence to have 4.5 million people without work, half of them without any benefit, nor that there are 9 million pensioners with completely inadequate pensions, or that 29% of the population is at risk of exclusion and poverty. [[The rumors continue.-Several Members: Come on, please!]] This is not considered an offence by this Government. It is not considered an offence that we are denied the right to decide on peoples, that our laws are annulled and that our presidents and advisors are accused. This is not considered an offence. This legislature began by denying Amaiur the right to have a parliamentary group of his own, and now, following the same path, we want to cut the right to express ourselves freely here. That only reinforces us in an idea that we have already brought here, that the democratic deficits of this regime are essential. I'm done with the beginning. This is not a rule of law, this is a state of waste. With regard to the request made by the Presidency - we have already pointed out this - we believe that no offence has been committed here. [[Protests]] Therefore, we understand that we do not have to withdraw anything. Our intention has never been here to offend anyone, but to carry out a free exercise of an opinion that we have in relation to a Constitution that we reject there in Euskal Herria, which was not approved... [[Mrs. Moro Almaraz: Then you can't be here.-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u22	Mr. Quadra, I've called you to order for the first time. I ask you again to withdraw the gesture. Answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u23	We understand that no offence has been committed here and therefore we do not have to withdraw anything.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u24	In that case, I'll call the order for the third time and kick you out of the rostrum. Get off the rostrum. [[That is what the honourable Member is doing.]] We continue with the Basque Parliamentary Group. I give the floor to Mr Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. There are ways that can be more or less pitiful or that can hurt sensitivities, but it is regrettable that a democratic constitution cannot protect the expressions of the whole world, even if they may be of better or worse taste, and above all that the interpretation that is made of that Constitution is so restrictive. Having said that, let's go to the debate. It is true that the Government does not seem to attach much importance to it because, as it already considers it to be a gain, nothing happens. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u26	I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u27	It is curious that the People's Party proposes a bill when there is no legal gap - they have said it is relevant ex-judged by the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court -, among other things because the mandatory enforcement of sentences appears in article 118 of the Constitution itself, but also in articles 17 and 18 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, and in addition, in its case, the court could raise the level of guilt to the prosecutor's office. There is no legal gap in the enforcement of judgements. The amount of the fines already exists. The only thing you do is increase them to put more pressure on. And the sentences are enforced for anything other than the central government, which is free to do absolutely what it wants and to fail to comply with sentences that are favorable to the autonomous communities, such as the two I mentioned to them at the previous session. However, by force of fact, the autonomous communities had no choice but to enter into everything ordered by the various courts, including the Constitutional Court. If this is the case, if there is no legal gap, then what are you looking for with your proposal? I would say that what they are doing is an ad hoc law, in this case for Catalonia, perhaps for some other dissociation also in the future, but for Catalonia, and this shows that it is a spurious use of the Constitutional Court by the government, and, of course, electoral behaviour. See when they do it and see how they do it. This should be out of close proximity to electoral time and that of the amendment of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court should be a debate in calm times. It turns out that here the People's Party has admitted it exclusively by its single reading majority, a case which, if you read the Rules of Procedure, should not apply to this proposal for a law, and also with all the deadlines reduced. It is regrettable that the Constitutional Court is used partyly and electorally. On the other hand, it is intended to modify mechanisms that are already established by the Spanish Constitution without modifying it in turn, giving responsibilities to other bodies. It cannot be that an organic law confers on the Constitutional Court powers that the Constitution itself has expressly conferred on other constitutional bodies. And if you are thinking about suspending certain powers, what you have to do is turn to article 155 of the Constitution. Obviously, we're talking about bigger words, but surely you wouldn't be shaking your wrists either. What are you thinking about then? Are you thinking that in the meantime between the two periods, in the period between which we will soon be seized because the election call is going to be necessary, the Senate cannot meet, they cannot apply the 155? What you cannot do is, without amending the Constitution, give powers to an organ that does not have them; you will have to apply it. Moreover, I also tell you that if you try to do what you are going to do, what you will be doing is an unconstitutional act and also from a government in office. In any case, they're putting the bandage on before the wound, because we still don't know what's going to happen, nor has there been any abnormal or irregular behavior on the part of any institution. The proposal that you are making also goes beyond other legal limits that should be taken very seriously, because it also has a clear penal content, apart from suspending and punishing. Moreover, you enable a procedure in which there is no procedural guarantee, and this, in an area such as sanctions or in an area such as criminal law, is inadmissible. You speak of the possibility of being punished on an unheard-of basis when circumstances of particular constitutional significance arise, and this is cooked and eaten by the Government of the State and the Constitutional Court itself without the hearing of the parties and without the hearing of the person to be punished. This is simply contrary to any rule of law and is a genuine abuse. Apart from the fact that there is absolutely no separation of powers when what they are seeking is a substitute execution to make the Constitutional Court the executing arm of the Government, or vice versa, because they also say: the Constitutional Court may propose the replacement execution of the relapsed resolutions by requiring the cooperation of the Government of the nation, in order to take the necessary measures in the prescribed terms. A court cannot entrust a function of its own to the executive branch; this, of course, goes beyond the concept of assistance that could be provided for in the organic law. What you are doing is that you are also permanently burdening yourself with the separation of powers, all of which is as if there is no longer any confidence in the impartiality of the Constitutional Court. Let us give you the reasons that we have given, you are going to move forward as you have done most of the times during this parliamentary term which is fortunately already ending, you are going to continue to apply your roller unilaterally, even if you have the whole House giving them legal or even political reasons not to do so. It is curious the conclusion they draw on the results of the last elections and it is curious that votes are beginning to be counted when a referendum has not been agreed and a referendum has been held; if votes were to be counted, it would have been best to have a referendum and I think we are still in time for that. But let us conclude that the winning list has actually lost and let us not draw the conclusion that the People's Party and the proposals of the President of the Government, and therefore the proposals of the Spanish Government in Catalonia, have received a sound failure, seems to me to be a contradiction. Have you or have you not received a sound failure? I will even add to them - I don't know what they will say, I imagine it won't make any fun of them - the votes of Citizens, and yet that would mean that their policy gets a sonorous failure, because there is 60% that is in favour of it being able to decide and agree that Catalonia is a nation and can be voted on. Keep this in mind. Here, on the basis of order and command and on the basis of moving to the courts, they will get absolutely nothing. Here there is a political problem and political problems - as the Constitutional Court also said in the resolution on the declaration as a nation of Catalonia - have to be resolved through dialogue and political negotiation. They cannot be left in the hands of the courts. What the last election to the Parliament of Catalonia has shown is that there is a political problem and that there is a need for dialogue, that we need to talk and that there is a vast majority of the citizens of Catalonia who do not agree with the policies being implemented by the Spanish Government. Make policy and do not engage in changing the legal nature of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Díez has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u29	Thank you, President. On October 1, 1931, in the rostrum of the Congress of Deputies a woman, Clara Campoamor, defended universal suffrage. In short, it is not a very different issue from the one underlying the debate we are having this morning because what was at the time was to implement something as essential in democracy as what is of all we decided among all. In that case it was with the participation of women, but ultimately the fund was the same: what is of all and what affects the whole society we decided among all. It seems to me to be a good way to get closer to the debate that we are really having today, the one that underlies it. Formally, this is about a reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court; a reform whose text, presented by the People's Party, as your ladies and gentlemen know because we have had the opportunity to put it, we do not share it, and that is why our group has tabled an amendment to the alternative text and partial amendments. Formally, this is about a reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. But ultimately it is - and it is only necessary to listen to the interventions that have preceded mine - that all citizens must be subject to the law, the rulers and the governed. It goes without saying that no one, the thousands or millions of citizens who vote for him, is above the law. It goes from that, so essential, so elementary in democratic terms. On the contrary, the more voters and the more responsible a public representative has, the more he must exercise that responsibility and, therefore, not exercise it and not be respectful of the laws that have placed him at the place where he is supposed to be an aggravating factor. It goes, ladies and gentlemen, that the application of the laws is not negotiated, that goes, too, and there is nothing more to hear than some of the things we have heard before. It goes on that the law is debated before it is passed, everything is discussed and, of course, discussed in order to change it. But while it is in force, its application is automatic, it is applied by judges, of course, but it is applied without discussion and without submitting to any kind of consensus, because there is no consensus to apply the laws. They must be implemented, as must the judgments of the courts. It is, in fact, that without law there is no democracy. For a long time - not only with the so-called Catalan theme or with the current debate - I have heard a lot in Spain say that only the law does not work. It is obvious that politics requires many other necessary actions, among others, to make laws because laws are also political, we have made them, they are part of our responsibility. Of course, not just the law, but out of the law, nothing. The application of the law is part of the things to be done, of course, but outside the law, absolutely nothing. Why now this debate? This debate now comes, in our view, for two reasons. On the one hand, because in Spain there are despotic rulers in Catalonia. A despotic government is the one who believes that it is above the law, that it declares itself above the law. A despotic government whose President-in-Office said yesterday that failing to comply with the rulings of the courts - the two rulings of the Constitutional Court - is an act of democratic rebellion. No, it's not an act of democratic rebellion. In a democracy and in a rule of law not to comply with court decisions, from a criminal standpoint, it is a crime. In a democracy and in a rule of law not to comply with the decisions of the courts, from a political point of view, it is a democratic coup d'état. That's what we're talking about. And that's why we're here today, because there are rulers who believe that failing to comply with the laws and bypass the rulings of the Constitutional Court is an act of democratic rebellion. No, it is a criminal offence and a coup d'état from a political point of view. There are political parties - and it has been seen here - who believe that they can change laws and the Constitution itself without respecting their procedures and we are also here right now doing this debate because the party that proposed this reform says that we do not have sufficient instruments in our legal system to force all citizens to respect the laws and comply with the rulings of the courts. It is not our view, our parliamentary group believes that it is not laws or legal instruments that have been lacking in Spain to force the rulers to comply with the laws, in the same way that the rulers are obliged. It is not a lack of laws or of instruments, but a lack of courage to apply them, not only in the Government that is at the head of the country today, but also in previous governments. There is no lack of laws - I insist -, there are no instruments, but courage to apply those laws and instruments - then I will reflect on the thread of the last thing that has happened in this rostrum - and, therefore, my parliamentary group initially considers - I insist - the same thing: First, that the proposal is wrong and, second, that it is unnecessary but, as we are in the process, we have wanted to adopt, as always, a positive attitude. That is why we have tabled amendments: one in all and the other in part. The most important of our amendments is that one of them proposes the creation of a new offence in the Criminal Code, a new article which expressly states - I insist, which expressly states - that non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court will be a crime, although there is already, as you know, the generic offence of disobedience and would apply, moreover, which would say a Catalan, the express offence in this case of non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. A second amendment proposes the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, instructing the Second Chamber of the Supreme to understand the offences of non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court; a national court, in sync with the Constitutional Court, are the offences to be prosecuted and can act on a preferential and urgent basis, so it will be effective and we will avoid by that means the discrepancy of criteria. Finally, the most important amendment of the three we are proposing is a reform of the Lecrim to apply the temporary suspension of employment and office to employees and public offices. Ladies and gentlemen, if the application to elected posts and to public employees of the temporary suspension of employment and office was in force, we would have saved ourselves many problems, as it applies in Spain to judges and magistrates because it is in law and as it applies to officials because it is also in law. Since it applies in Spain to officials and judges and magistrates, why can such a provisional suspension not apply to elected posts? Why doesn't it apply to prevent the damage being done when the sentence comes out? If he is then found innocent, he is reappointed to his post, such as judges, judges and officials. I insist that it is legislation that is in force in Spain and what we propose to you is in force in the laws of many other countries, of many other democracies in the world. Finally, in our view, what has been lacking has been political will and not instruments, but, as we are prepared to strengthen existing instruments to protect citizens and democracy, we have tabled these amendments. We want it and we can do it: to strengthen democracy, legal certainty, the instruments to ensure respect for the law and the enforcement of judgments without distorting the Constitutional Court. This is very important. More can be done than is being done without distorting the Constitutional Court from the point of view of its jurisdictional role and from the point of view of what is not its political role. Without denaturalizing it in either way you can have more and better instruments, more guarantee and more effective. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with the reflection with which the debate began this morning and which everyone has brought to this rostrum. My group also cares and is concerned about approaching that issue, which is at the heart of the debate. Yes, there is a problem in Catalonia; not a problem with Catalonia or Catalans, but a problem in Catalonia and Catalans who do not want to respect the laws or the judgments of the courts. There's no problem with Catalans who are independenceists or at least I don't have it. I have an alternative proposal and I will always discuss and try to convince them that this is not good for the Catalans or for the Spanish as a whole. The problem we have with one part of the Catalans divides us and places us on the side of the law and the other. That is the most important problem that we have - the real problem - a problem that is difficult to solve, unless the decisions of the courts and the rule of law are complied with. There is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, and I should like to stress this, that we have not created those who defend that no one is above the law. No, we who advocate that no one is above the law are not the ones who have created the problem, but those who confuse cultural identity with political citizenship, and that confusion is precisely at the basis of nationalism. It is a problem that we have not created that we say that there are no Catalan citizens, that there are no Basque citizens or that there are no Madrid or Galician citizens; this is what Spanish citizens are called to be censuses of these autonomys. The problem has not been created by those who think so, because that is the truth. It is the Spanish Constitution that proclaims us all citizens, and then we live in one or another part of Spain. Of course, there is a plural Spain, now that there is so much talk of dialogue, of including plurality and of respecting it. Of course, there is a plural Spain and there is a plural Catalonia. That plurality of Spanish society, that diversity we defend, we also defend it in Catalonia and elsewhere in Spain; a plural Catalonia which must also be preserved and which must also be protected. Of course, diversity is a wealth in democracy, of course it is, provided that we do not confuse the right to diversity with diversity of rights, because that is another issue that is at the heart of this debate, I repeat, provided we do not confuse diversity with diversity of rights, to call it a clear Spanish, with privileges, with the right to have privileges for whatever reason you want to add. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, among those who defend the rule of law, the vast majority of those who are here, there are strong differences and differences inherent in a democracy. If we all thought the same thing, we would not live in a plural and democratic society. And of course, among those who defend the application of laws and the respect of judgments there are strong discrepancies: ideological differences, strategies, tactics, model of state, model of country; there are many differences, naturally and fortunately, but the only line that divides us, the only line that separates us here in the Courts, in the whole of Spain and in Catalonia too, is that which separates those who are on the side of those who want to defend the law, even if it is to change it but within the law and procedures, and those who are on the other side of the line, those who want to skip the laws and change them to their free will and judgment, without respecting the procedures. That is what divides us essentially and fundamentally, and until we realize that, that the only thing that separates us is that there are those who are with the law and those who are over the law or believe in the law, we will not be able to address a debate in depth to find the true solution, the democratic solution. That is why, now that we are also talking so much about immobilism, about the need to negotiate, about what needs to be talked about, I will tell you that it is clear that we need to talk, that we need to negotiate and we need to move. My parliamentary group and I are willing to talk and negotiate everything; how to skip the law, no. And warning: we are radically against, we declare ourselves radically intransigent with those who want to skip the law, without any kind of doubt or alibi, without any kind of complex. As in that verse of Benedetti: in that we are a lost case. We declare ourselves to be radically partial, we are on the side of the law, because the law is democracy, because the law is the guarantee of the rule of law and democracy, and because, in fact, being the law guarantees the rule of law and democracy is what protects and protects all citizens: those who want an independent Catalonia and those who want the independence of another part of Spain as well. Only with the law in hand, changing the law, if we all decide to change it, is it possible to continue living in democracy. This is old, ladies and gentlemen, and it is a shame to have to insist on it again at this stage. This is from Aristotle, who already distinguished between democracy and demagogy. He explained well what demagoguery meant: a strategy used to achieve political power through appeals to prejudices, emotions, fears and hopes of the public to gain popular support through the use of propaganda. No, democracy with capitals, from respect for the law and without complex to defend it and to discuss it. In that, this parliamentary group is absolutely and radically intransigent. That is why we are proposing these amendments to the Group of the European People's Party, because we believe that there are sufficient instruments; we believe that they can be improved, if they need to be improved, but they need to be improved with legal guarantees, because this must also be done by respecting the laws and by respecting our highest body of interpretation of the Constitution, which is the Constitutional Court. That is why we have put these amendments to you, and that is why we would like you to accept them. I conclude, Mr President, with a very brief reflection on the issue that we have been dealing with a moment ago.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u30	Mrs. Díez, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u31	I'm done. I said earlier that law enforcement is not negotiated. I ask you, Mr President, to apply Rules 141 and 146 to Mr Sabino Cuadra, to apply them without waiting for consensus among the members of the Bureau - as you told us yesterday in writing - because neither is the application of the laws negotiated in what we are talking about, nor is the application of the Regulation negotiated: it is applied, it is our Rules of Procedure and it is applied. I formally ask you on behalf of our group to apply it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, what barbarity, what immense barbarity in democratic terms, what stupidity in political terms you are about to perpetrate. That is why our group, La Izquierda Plural, has tabled amendments to delete the entire text of this proposal for a law, and in these terms we have ratified it. It is again a bill based on three major fallacies, and all to justify a great political cowardice, the cowardice of not wanting to approach the dialogue, of betting on transferring political responsibility to the courts, in this case to the Constitutional Court and, if it is not enough, on a responsibility and - if I may say so - a dead man to the Constitutional Court, who will end up killing him. The first fallacy is to make citizens believe that the political conflict caused by the refusal to recognize the right to decide of the citizens of Catalonia can be resolved by political and judicial threat. Second fallacy: to make citizens believe that there are no ordinary mechanisms in our system to ensure compliance with the Constitutional Court's rulings when you know that this is not true. Third fallacy: to present the proposal of the People's Party as the solution when it is actually going to cause an aggravation of the problem, poses a serious risk to the Constitutional Court and can cause situations as disastrous in democratic terms as ordering the Executive to execute a ruling of the Constitutional Court to which that same Executive has been a party. You are burdened with the essences of the rule of law, the division of functions and the basic rules of the democratic system. They are three fallacies to justify a political cowardice, because the brave thing today, which is different from chulo, is to face the political conflict that has arisen in Catalonia from the dialogue and from the negotiation, and you do not only do this but also plan to intervene and, as you do not dare to do, you intend to entrust this function to the Constitutional Court. This is an unnecessary reform, everyone has said, which also breaks the constitutional consensus on the role of the Constitutional Court, which is similar to that given to other legal regimes similar to ours, where constitutional jurisdiction is completely separate from ordinary jurisdiction and has completely different functions. It implies an implicit reform of the Spanish Constitution, which you do not only without consensus but without dialogue, with the Government hiding the wing, hiding behind a proposal for a law of the People's Group and, if anything, pretending to impose it in this way. Absolutely no one so far, except the People's Party and the Rajoy Government, has raised a gap for the enforcement of the rulings of the Constitutional Court, and less than anyone else in the Constitutional Court itself. If there were such a vacuum, it is more than foreseeable that the Constitutional Court or one of its members, in judgments or in reserved votes, would have raised the difficulty of not being able to enforce its judgments: I remind you that a large part, more than 90%, of the rulings of the Constitutional Court are declaratory and that a large part of those which have some executive content are directed to enforce judgments of other courts. No one has raised it so far, because it is not a problem. It is a problem that you create out of political cowardice and to hide behind the Constitutional Court. It is such evidence that they have not only not heard the Constitutional Court, but have prevented the possibility of speaking to the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State, because they have once again been afraid, politically cowardly to be told that this is an unnecessary reform and that it will exacerbate the problem. That is why you have not consulted anyone at all. You put forward this proposal in terms of night and aggravation by the end of the legislature, and also with the virtually unanimous opinion of all constitutionalists that it is unnecessary and dangerous. Do you realize the reading this House has made, even the People's Group, of what that sentence is for, what that bill is for? It is only to address a problem, the one raised in Catalonia, and, moreover, what you call non-compliance by the Catalan Government and President-in-Office Mas. Do you realize the barbarity you are committing in democratic terms? Laws, by definition, are universal. The ad hoc law makes no sense. I hope that if this comes, that it will come, to the Constitutional, they will again tell them what they told them in another sentence: a law cannot be for a case, for a person, because it breaks the essence of the law itself, its genesis, its reason for existence. But the arguments are useless to you. You have a goal, which is to reject dialogue, address it on the basis of judicial conflicts and, on top of that, to be irresponsible and to charge the dead with the Constitutional Court. This reform is going to be lethal for the Constitutional Court if it is implemented and put into effect, they have been told by prominent members - I say again that Mr. Rubio Llorente has repeated it to the point of satiety -, they are saying it to them constitutionalists. It will place the Constitutional Court in the eye of the hurricane of a political conflict that only has a political, non-judicial solution, and less placing the Constitutional Court as responsible for resolving it. You will further deteriorate the high credibility and authority of the Constitutional Court. If something needs a Constitutional Court in any country in the world, it is the autoritas, not the power, but the autoritas of the classics, that everyone recognizes you, that everyone, when going to the Constitutional Court, knows that it is with which, above all, it will issue a judgment, that it may or may not like, but it will have autoritas. You have for years deteriorated that credibility, that authority of the Constitutional Court; you have done so on many occasions, even in charge of militant functions of that Constitutional Court. That is why, in order to be consistent with their conception of the deterioration of the Constitutional Court, they have come to put a member of the People's Party at the head of that same court, and not keeping the forms. It can't be. You're loading the Constitution. By the way, everyone will have their opinion on Mr Sabino Cuadra's gesture the other day, but I can assure you one thing: sometimes the Constitution is more broken up with behaviors like yours, today, here, with this bill, charging one of the key elements of the Constitution, which is the Constitutional Court. I suggest that, before taking any decision - it is a suggestion - the doctrine of the Constitutional Court on the limits of freedom of expression be read well and that they realize how comprehensive this court has been when it was to be. I suggest that you also see the doctrine of the Constitutional Court as to how our Constitution is not a militant, because it is not only not necessary to commune with it and with all its articles, but it is possible to challenge it and charge it, always by democratic methods that imply freedom of expression. I recommend prudence in the actions they adopt because, wanting to overact, at best what they achieve is to further deteriorate the essence of our Constitution: among other things, the exercise of freedom of expression. We are facing a major political conflict, raised by the demand of the majority of Catalonian citizens. It is not 47% but almost 80% of Catalonia's citizens who demand to be able to freely decide, in democratic terms, their location, their future, their legal personality as a nation, and you, who fill your mouth with democracy, reject any proposal in those terms. The fact that they rejected it could have an explanation, but what has no explanation is that they do not offer any political alternative, but simply a frontal wall in which they ricochet all the proposals sent to them from different areas. They have managed to polarize the situation in Catalonia and Spain to extremes that at some point can become irreversible, and everything to try to get a handful of votes and the government. They did so, agitating anti-Catalanism when they were in opposition as a strategy to overthrow the previous government, especially by using the subject of language and school, which is one of the things that all the citizens of Catalonia feel most proud of because it has been a major social cohesion factor that many societies already want, and you have had no shame in using that to try to get the government. And since you have no limits, because you come... When I say you - I want to clarify -, I don't mean any personally. In principle, I have respect for you all, but you come from such a political culture and with ancestors who believe that any way to reach power is legitimate, even that of the coup d'état. [[Rumors.-Protests]] I have said what I have said and I keep it because it can only be understood that for you any purpose is valid to reach the Government; for example, the way Aznar arrived in 1996 or the way Aznar went in 2004 or the way in which they intend to stay at this time. [[Rumors]] From personal respect, I express to you a deep political contempt for the way you understand how to get to the government. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Otherwise, you couldn't. [[Mrs. Rodriguez-Salmons Head: But what does she say!]] That's why I'm telling you once and for all to listen, that this doesn't work out... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u34	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u35	...trying to... [[A number of honourable Members: you called us coups!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u36	Mr Coscubala is speaking. Let's let him explain. Go on, Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u37	Please don't let me send you Larbetta's greetings... [[Rumors]] I'm saying don't make me say hello to José Antonio Labordeta. [[Rumors]] I'm going on. The government is behaving in a way... [[Rumors]] The Government was acting hyperactively in the judicial field, in the court field, and that hyperactivity then became paralyzed in the political field. That doesn't lead to anything at all. Haven't you noticed that with threats and fear you don't get anything? They just get the opposite. They are able to provide feedback to those who are politically enchanted with feedback in this ongoing conflict strategy. With their behaviour, the People's Party and the Government have decided to demonstrate that the fundamental laws on the human stupidity of Onion are true. I'll explain myself so there's no bad intention. You, in these recent elections in Catalonia, have tried to act in an evil way, as described by Onion; that is, to benefit you by harming others. And the result has been the opposite: it has become a behavior of infidels; you have been harmed, in electoral terms, and above all you have benefited others, the Junts pel Si candidacy and Citizens. But if the behavior of the PP is serious, according to the fundamental rules of human stupidity, much more so is that of the government, because it turns out that with its behavior it is getting a brutal thing: it is getting the perfect definition of stupidity. I mean, how wanting to hurt others is also hurting one's own self. That's what you're doing with your behavior, hurting the whole country. Today the smart thing is to recognize that, once and for all, the right to decide of the citizens of Catalonia must have a democratic channel in referendum; it must have it. Mrs. Díez, the argument that the laws are about to be enforced is no good. [[Several Members: Oh no!]] Will you let me finish? Can't that even stand it? Or can't the word stand it? [[Rumors]] You see how they're finally gonna make me right?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u38	Please, I beg your silence. Mr. Coscubiela, you go on with your speech.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u39	Let's see. The laws are to comply with them, of course, and to reform them on democratic terms, but also to force them, if not, how would women have voted in this country?, how would the workers have exercised the right to strike with legislation that prohibited them and put them in jail? How? [[A Member of Parliament: Changing them]] Forcing, in democratic terms, yes, respectful of legality, but forcing that legality. I'm not justifying anything at all. I'm saying there are some arguments that are fallacious from that perspective. And what the citizens of Catalonia are doing from different positions - I, defending the right to decide in referendum, others, with the lateral declaration of independence - is simply forcing politically your refusal to give way to that right to decide. I hope that, once and for all, citizens, by their vote, will expel them from the Government and give them an opportunity for dialogue and politics. Finally, thank you very much. Thank you very much, gentlemen of the People's Party. You are getting more than anyone, more than a server, to make good the need for a constituent process in this country. This way we're not going anywhere. On this path, you demonstrate more than anything that the strength that the constituent process of constitutional reform and, above all, of transition had at the time, is more than exhausted, as its way of governing it. It is therefore essential and rapid to have a discontinuity, a strong break in economic and social terms, in national terms and in democratic terms. I hope that soon the citizens of this country will take a step towards what we need, a constituent process that will truly consolidate effective democracy in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. Mr Sánchez Amor has the floor, as set out by the speakers themselves, by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u41	Thank you for your flexibility, Mr President, and thank you to Mr Campuzano for the same, and I apologize to him and to the colleague of the People's Party for having to leave immediately after my speech. We are at a time of the legislature that invites us to take stock, and this proposal by the People's Group puts us on the table to make one about whether our democratic institutions have better health or more legitimacy now than four years ago. I don't think so. I believe that the PP, not by having an absolute majority but by having an absolute majority, has made a use of it which has contributed to undermining the already misguided public image and legitimacy of our institutions. It is paradoxical, because it is precisely the fact of having an absolute majority that would advise us to act with complete calm because, after all, all the votes will be won. In the case of the PP it has been the opposite: the absolute majority - which in theory does not need shortcuts - has made use of all kinds of trichinets, forced interpretations, abuse of procedures, run-down deadlines and many other contempts for the regular functioning of the institutions. It will not be necessary to insist on the ubiquitous abuse of decree-laws, to force meetings on the weekend of the Council of State, the use of urgent procedures, to use the Senate to introduce amendments that have nothing to do with the subject in question, to propose party candidates in constitutional bodies and even exceptional regulations, such as that used at the beginning of the process of this own initiative. This situation of progressive deterioration, of erosion of the legitimacy of the institutions, leads me to make this reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, at a historic time when it is so difficult to agree on the great ideological narratives of the background, in a world without strong and shared ideological aspects, suddenly the quality of the institutions and the security of the procedures emerge as one of the few islands of certainty for the citizen and for society. We can no longer be sure of possessing the absolute truths of religion or of classical totalizing ideologies, not even of a supposed universal natural right, so the truth with lowercases must be built repeatedly through the prefixed procedures and within the institutions. The only thing that allows us to ensure that we are approaching that truth, even if it is provisional and historical, is to review whether we have come to that conclusion, to that truth in small numbers, by means of a rational dialogue in which we have used the procedures set out within the institutions. This constitutional patriotism, this patriotism of procedures is becoming one of the few safe havens of a modern democracy without mostly shared accounts. That is why respect for the role and play of the institutions and the strict follow-up of these procedures are so important in any democracy that they assure us of a certain socially shared truth. That's what has been eroding throughout the legislature with the poor attitude of the PP in achieving its short-term political objectives. It is a Panzerdivision model or, in more chaste terms, a tank model. Hernando, take the San Jerónimo Brigade to me and take that hill, and without making prisoners; and the PP sets in motion the picker of democratic procedures and searches the rules to seek the most unexpected and favorable interpretations of their interests, leaving, of course, along the path jirones of legitimacy of the institutions and a certain astonishment of the citizenry. Institutions seem to be plasticin monigotes in the increasingly nervous hands of an absolute majority who knows that it will cease to be. That is why the haste, the lack of consideration and the push we have experienced at the end of this parliamentary term. This proposal for organic law that we are debating today is another example, not even the most Machiavellian, but let us see the depth load it carries within it. A few months ago we discussed here another reform of the Constitutional Court, the previous appeal. On that occasion, as has been pointed out, the PP did not consider it necessary to take the opportunity to produce some reform in the area of enforcement of sentences, with all the logic, because, as has been said repeatedly, it is a matter that no one, from politics, from doctrine or from the Constitutional Court itself, has pointed out as a problem for our political system. It was universally considered from the original wording that the regulation was perfectly sufficient, because it gave the Constitutional Court the capacity to resolve any issue in the execution of its judgments. There was simply no case. Of course no group spokesman was contacted this summer to make him notice that no regulatory gap, and surely because the holidays were short the PP did not want to bother proposing consensus on essential game rules. No consensus: the use of the tank. Nor were the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State disturbed during their summer break. We'd better not bother them on vacation; they'll probably thank us. Thus, the orders to the PP were: Hernando, secrecy; the tank puts it in vibration mode. That is why the announcement of the proposal at the beginning of September was indeed a surprise, at a time when it was already doubtful that it could be dealt with in time. And to whom did the honour of that public presentation correspond? To Mr Gómez de la Serna, Mr Bermúdez de Castro, Mr Hernando? No, the presentation was made by Mr Albiol, a popular candidate who was in Madrid and who certainly could not escape the terrible journalistic harassment, and said that phrase worthy of Fernando VII: The joke is over. He failed to say: Let us all walk together, and I first, along the path of constitutional enforceability. Scenographic excesses, colleagues of the People's Party, can spoil the best representation, and this of bringing Albiol to participate in the theatre was one of those that made you quickly repent of the presence of your Catalan candidate. The People's Party cleared up some doubts there, in the presence of Albiol. He announced that the processing would be by emergency procedure and in one reading - the tank, let's go, though with a Catalan sticker -. What the People's Party could not miss was that everyone wondered: what about this, now, why? He asked that it be answered on its own, as everyone has said, with the presence of Mr Albiol, who had not so far been characterized by proposing subtle legal reforms, not even accusing immigrants from his city of preventing the execution of constitutional sentences. In fact, in order to recover from the chaff, the Government dropped that they had been working on the matter for eight months, an assertion that was solemnly denied by a brief reading of the proposal by a law student. And in order to neutralize the Catalan aroma, Minister Catalá said that the only thing that had moved the People's Parliamentary Group was the finding that the court had some shortcomings in enforcement. Literal: it is not a timely reform for nothing or for anyone, I insist, it is not a reform for either a temporary process or a specific matter. The best proof that this bill does not originate from a suggestion by the Ministry of Justice is the cruelty with which the People's Party trampled the late prudence of the Minister of Justice, denying it in every act of the Catalan campaign since the very day it pronounced them, because while the Minister continued to try to sharpen criticism of the legal world, the tankers continued to do their thing by promising the Catalans, one day yes and another, that the People's Party would take Mas away from the middle, as soon as it took a stellate in its own kitchen. Not in vain did some Catalan newspaper use the expression Albiol reform to refer to what we are debating today. Perhaps from there the anger of the Minister of Justice, who yesterday discovered to us the government's management of judicial times, perhaps as a small revenge against the tank. The reform created an extraordinary cascade of criticisms, policies and ours logically, but also academics and professionals. Very notably, it has been said - and I will not insist on it - by former Presidents of the Constitutional Court, several judges and many professors in this area. Needless to say, the tank procedure did not even like those who could be a little understanding of the background of the reform. Look, from all the opinions that the House's documentation service has provided me for this intervention, only one author, one criminal, defends the reform. It is still revealing that all constitutionalists consulted criticize it, and that however, from the perspective of criminal law, although isolated, it has been defended, because the tendency of the People's Party to turn any part of our system into punitive law is a sufficiently well-known mark of identity. The apotheosis of loneliness was represented here in this rostrum fifteen days ago by the spokesman of the People's Party, disillusioning himself over the nationalistic conjure and unable to defend in a medium way what had called us, that is, this reform. It's what has to be in charge of the tank, which looks at the world by a gunner's eye and everything around it is simply darkness. And since Mr Hernando could not claim here the authority of any constitutionalist quoted us - I remind you - Cervantes, Calderón, Lorca, Machado, Santa Teresa or Azorín, none of them, which I know, experts in procedural law. And to put on the Catalan winch, and that he could not be accused of anything else, he quoted Dalí and Josep Pla, who went as far as the rapid recourse to Wikipedia came. The more it would have been for the People's Party to make a little bit of a case for Josep Pla and remember that experiments are done with gas and not with substitutions, and we would have saved ourselves the legal genius that we have on the table and that actually looks like one of those dream paintings by Salvador Dalí. As has been said here, this is a measured law, a punitive and preventive law with only one addressee. This law is the closest that has been done in Spanish politics to the 'I will make an offer that you will not be able to reject', at least since the penal reform dedicated to former President Ibarretxe. But it is also a huge political clumsiness, because it has fueled the victimism of those who theoretically wanted to weaken. From our group we are perfectly clear who is responsible for the drift of Catalan nationalism and the shames that Mr Mas wants to cover by getting involved in the flag, from corruption to the most disastrous government management in Catalonia. That's why it bothers us that in your electoral strategy you use this Congress to give fuel to that more than predictable nationalist victimism. Don't accuse us of equidistants. You, with this proposal, have been objective allies - I repeat, objective allies - of the nationalists in their obsession to turn Spain into a caricature from which come all the threats to Catalonia and all the contempt. It's not Spain's fault. It is the fault of the symmetrical strategies of a cyclotymic People's Party that quickly moves from placid indolence to threatening hyperactivity, and of nationalists who need these kinds of gestures to justify the distorted image of Spain that the Catalans are giving. And totally, for what? So that Mr. Albiol, the one from the recording theater, would take a roll sound to the polls. "The joke is over," Albiol said. And what was over was Albiol. The reality is that the new People's Party is engulfed in a primary anti-Catalanism that feeds the anti-Spanishism of nationalists for free. In the next campaign, of which this debate is an appetizer, I bet you're going to quote More than Rajoy. If not on time. It's what you have to look at reality for a gunner's eye. The propitiatory victim, a Constitutional Court passing by, the one who was killed, as Coscubiela said. Do not sell us that you are concerned about the weakness of the poor Constitutional Court, and that you put the Government at your service so that it can execute the sentences. It's the opposite. You use the court as a tool to pave the way for you and make uncomfortable political decisions that would be yours or your next governments. You are not strengthening the Constitutional Court, you are using it as a mockery so that the first horns will be carried away by an institution already plunged into a deep crisis of legitimacy, and to which it will be thrown into the political arena will end the lack of prestige that remains. You, so chickens in these parliamentary speeches, with Santa Teresa and Santiago closing Spain, are actually shaking your legs at the prospect of having to use the constitutional mechanisms that we already have. That is the real risk of the operation to which I referred at first with the delegitimization of the institutions. Let us fight the parties, but let us preserve the institutions and be scrupulous with the procedures. We are sometimes accused of being biased against candidates for constitutional bodies, but the real problem is not that parliamentary origin. The problem is the manoeuvring in which the People's Party has turned the interference in the internal life of some constitutional bodies. It begins by refusing a judge to influence a sentence, and ends as it has been said by sending a militant to preside over the Supreme Court, continuous leaks, delays for partisan reasons in the renewal, the knowledge that some judge had worked for the People's Group. The decisions of the Constitutional Court were previously criticized. Today the Constitutional Court is criticized even before it has taken delicate decisions. A court - this one, like ours - of parliamentary origin must be very careful not to get into the political arena, but we, the political actors, must be very careful not to order matters which by their nature do not belong to it, which is the opposite of what this reform does. A ruling on abortion or divorce will inevitably have a political reading, but that is their role and for that we pay them. What is not required by the Constitution is to suspend a legitimately elected popular representative, for example. What I want to say is that enough already has the Constitutional Court with its own constitutional functions so that we can now put a political clock bomb in its gruesome operation. Let us suppose that the handling of this proposal would have had all the satisfactions, all the reports, not being an urgent but normal procedure. Even so, the question would be: Is it appropriate to charge a court already immersed in a worrying process of delegitimization with politically sensitive functions? Can this specific Constitutional Court here and now assume this squabble without danger of sinking even further into the public image? Or else, is the People's Party so desperate that it prefers to charge itself with this institution if with it it scratches some vows excite anti-Catalanism and promising soundings of faith against the secessionists? So many speakers have said that it is lazily enough to repeat it. This reform carries an alien within it, a change of constitutional nature. And it is not just about changing the nature of the Constitutional Court, because if the Constitutional Court can suspend part of a parliament, that parliament can pass laws with the minority and can change governments. Do we really want the Constitutional Court, with its present fragility, involved in these political eggplants? I'm done, Mr. President. The enormous paradox of all this is the reversal of the effects that are said to be sought. This reform is going to fuel the victimism of Catalan secessionists, and by the way it is going to weaken - who knows if definitively - a fragile Constitutional Court. It is one more step in the erosion of institutions and procedures, sacrificed once again in this legislature for the benefit of short-term party interests. That is why we call for the abolition of the reform and the return to the original wording, because it is a democratic immaturity that drives us away from our close models. The difference between Britain and Spain is that if they knock at your door here at six o'clock in the morning, maybe it's not the milkman, maybe it's a tanker. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez Amor. I now give the floor to Mrs Surroca, first of all, for the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, initiatives like this only encourage the disencounter and polarisation of approaches on the Catalan issue. This proposal for a law is a veritable waste, as we said in our previous intervention to take account of this initiative. But it also highlights the incompetence of this Government to resolve the Catalan question; another mistake of this Government and also in this case of the group that supports it, which has finally presented this initiative. And the chain of errors does not cease, ladies and gentlemen. This week another episode: President Mas, former vice-president Joana Ortega and Councilwoman Rigau are quoted as accused. They are being subjected to a genuine political trial, ladies and gentlemen, a political issue, and that is why they have to appear before the courts. Since Unió, in addition to expressing our support and conviction from here that things were done within the legal framework, we once again strongly reject the fact that the way to resolve this situation is through the courts. Do you really think something like this is going to work out? We're convinced not to. Do you think it is appropriate to shift the political responsibility of this Government to the courts? This is not going to solve anything at all, ladies and gentlemen, we said it to the satisfaction of the previous speech and we will continue to defend that same approach. The judicialization of the conflict exacerbates the current situation. It should also be recalled that the members of the Constitutional Court themselves have criticized their being used to resolve an issue that goes far beyond their role as interpreters of the Constitution; it is even reflected in a ruling of the Constitutional Court, which issued in connection with the declaration of sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia. But you also have doubts about the independence of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen, and that is a very serious mistake. Even the President of the Government had to step outside to deny that it had nothing to do with the summons as accused of the President, the former Vice-President and Councilwoman Rigau, who had nothing to do with the decision when that judicial declaration was to be made, a huge mistake, ladies and gentlemen. Since Unió we believe that this is an unnecessary reform, both in substance and in form, we also believe that it distorts the functions of the Constitutional Court, but also implements it politically. Why do we say it's an unnecessary reform? Because our legal system already has sufficient instruments to resolve the issues of enforceability that may arise. In addition, the current mechanisms are fully respectful of all procedural principles and guarantees. This reform includes superfluous statements, such as article 92 conferring on the court the power to agree on the replacement of decisions in constitutional proceedings or to suspend, without even prior hearing, public authorities or employees. Therefore what you are trying to create, ladies and gentlemen, is a jurisdiction of exception; an exceptionality imposed as a rule, when the current legislation guarantees a procedural framework sufficient to comply with the judgments and decisions of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, from the formal or legislative point of view, we must remember - some spokesman who has spoken before me has already said this - that this proposal is an urgent reform of an organic law that forms part of the basic structure of the State; we are faced with a reform that affects the bloc of constitutionality. And how do they pose it? Through a bill, not even the initiative arises from the Government itself. As a result, what does all this mean? That the mandatory reports of institutions such as the Council of State, which we believe would have been of great use in reform of this magnitude, should be dispensed with. But not only this, this reform will thrive with the only votes of the People's Party. Don't you think that a reform affecting the constitutional bloc would require a much more consensus and a much more paused process in this House? And in case they want to add more misconceptions present this initiative through the candidate of the People's Party in the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, in the middle of the pre-election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, how many mistakes. It is another electoral initiative of the People's Party. First they did it thinking about the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, and now they continue the process by seeing the next goal, which is the end-of-year elections. Wouldn't it be, as we said in our previous speech, much easier to sit down and talk? We have done so on other occasions where the situation was much more complex. We did it during the transition, when agreements were reached, but now they look elsewhere, turn their backs on the situation in Catalonia, and they are straining the situation more and more. You know perfectly well that this is not going to solve anything. Instead of sitting around and talking about what they do, they use justice in matters that are political. From Unió we believe - we have said this repeatedly - that the only solution is politics with capitals, dialogue, ladies and gentlemen. We're not going to solve this any other way. That is why our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the whole with an alternative text, and our alternative proposal is nothing other than to maintain the current wording. Why? Because, as we mentioned earlier, there are already sufficient mechanisms in our legal system to comply with the rulings and decisions of the Constitutional Court. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the only solution is politics with capitals and dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. Mr Campuzano has the floor for the same Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. In the debate a few weeks ago, Mr Macias warned them that every time they used Catalonia as an electoral weapon they had gone wrong. I told them that they were going to get sick in the whole Spanish state, and what we know is that they got sick in Catalonia this Sunday. The electoral act that consisted in the presentation of this initiative by Mr. García Albiol has become a failed electoral act. The People's Party has seen not only that the options for independence won the elections, but that all the formations that today reject this initiative represent the vast majority of Catalan society. This should oblige them, in an exercise of respect for that reality, to accept our return amendments and to close that folder that will not lead anywhere, although I am very afraid they will not do so. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is revealing two things. One, that the Catalan question today is the democratic question, of how this State - and in particular this Government - is capable of facing the democratic challenge that Catalan society has been posing for a long time. The question is whether they are able to listen, to understand what is happening in Catalonia and to give that the answer that a mature, democratic, consolidated society that a State of strong democratic tradition must give, which is to open the way for democracy to give way to that demand. In recent years, we have given them the clear examples of how cultured, democratic, civilized societies resolve this kind of conflict. Canonical examples are Canada and the United Kingdom. How the House as a whole will be able to respond to the Catalan question in the near future we are going to set the level of democracy in this state. If after forty years of democracy the Spanish state is unable to give democratic exit to the Catalan demand is that democracy is failing in Spain. And in that failure of democracy in Spain there is an actor who explains the problem we have, and that is that the right continues to be installed in an authoritarian culture. It is perhaps the most serious political problem that Spain has: a right that instead of understanding the diversity, plurality, the legitimacy of all the options that we defend from these seats claims that, through the Criminal Code and this amendment, the Catalan question, the Catalan demand, is solved. It's an authoritarian culture. If one goes back to what has been the trajectory of the Spanish right, of the Spanish conservatives during the 19th and 20th centuries, perhaps in these forty years the Spanish right has not yet done the updating process that should have done long ago. We thought that the Spanish right had taken the path towards a liberal attitude, to the diversity of options, to the political conflict, but the Spanish right continues to settle in the same political culture that has historically led us to the disasters that have led us. The Catalan question is the democratic question and the authoritarian right is the problem that this State has. Ladies and gentlemen, on the content of the proposal for a law I will reiterate arguments that other speakers have put forward. We are faced with a proposal that is contrary to the Constitution; it expands the functions of the Constitutional Court in a scheme not provided for in our Constitution; it is a proposal that hurts a court that is already very worn out and very touched, it hurts it; it does not allow the Constitutional Court to play that role as an interpreter of the Constitution in terms of moderation and integration, and it makes it a court of law and order. It is a bill that seeks to solve a problem that does not exist. The court has the means to enforce its judgements and is at risk of falling into the errors that also occurred in the Second Republic with the Constitutional Guarantee Court. They must recall that the President Company was tried by that Constitutional Guarantee Court after the events of October 1934. When this Constitution was intended to prevent the Constitutional Court from having the characteristics of a court that also had the capacity to enforce its judgments, as was then done, it was to prevent the errors that occurred at the time. Very little historical memory seems to have. They remain settled in that authoritarian idea of politics. It has been said that the absurdity of this legislative text is that it could lead, for example, to Mr Alonso being suspended from his duties because of breaches of the rulings of the Constitutional Court in the matter of 0.7 % of the IRPF. Does that make sense? It doesn't make any sense. It's a real nonsense. We said that in the debate. This is an ad personam proposal, aimed at trying to liquidate, politically and personally, President Mas and they continue to understand absolutely nothing. The issue is not President Mas. The issue is that about 2 million people have self-determined themselves. The point is that about 2 million people have been emotionally disconnected for a long time. Therefore, if this misconception were to have an impact and the President of the Generalitat were to be suspended in his duties or the complaint being dealt with came to a good conclusion, they would not resolve the issue. The living reality of Catalonia, the living will of the citizens of Catalonia will continue to express themselves. I'm done, Mr. President. We are in the twenty-first century, we are in Europe, and in the twenty-first century and in Europe, fortunately, the political challenges we are facing from Catalonia are only resolved with democracy, with acceptance of the position of the other, with the capacity for dialogue and listening to people. Today you are going to impose your majority, but historic time will remind you that you were wrong at the end of 2015, and perhaps some of you are ashamed of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the People's Group, Mr Gómez de la Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a matter of fact, I would like to ask the Presidency to take the disciplinary measures that are more forceful in terms of the intolerable attitude of Mr Quadra in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] I am not going to enter into the political excrescence of what your speech means, but I am going to ask you and to reiterate to the president that you act forcefully. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that this reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court is unconstitutional. It is not true that it alters the nature of our Constitutional Court. It is not true that it involves invigorating the institution, as has been said. I would ask in these matters, in order to maintain the relevance of the institution and not to erode it, a little moderation in the judgment. One thing is to give an opinion from a newspaper gallery or from a university chair and another act from institutions and rule a country. I understand that the Socialist Party on this subject has opted for the bullfight, but we are not here, the citizens do not send us to this House to give theories to the rest of the parliamentary groups. We are here to give democratic strength to our institutions and to legally arm our institutions in the face of what, in the words of Don Alfonso Guerra, is a slow-moving coup d'état in every rule. We prefer a self-confident democracy, with strong institutions that can rise to the challenges, rather than a complicated and weak democracy. When one embarks on a political strategy that consists of giving the third city of Barcelona to a group that collects money for the prisoners of ETA, when one embarks on a political strategy that involves giving the five major Spanish cities to a radical movement in favour of the right of self-determination or when one embarks on an adventure and a political strategy that involves introducing more than 40 municipalities of Catalonia into the Association of Town Halls for Independence, as the Socialist Party has done, how do you want us to expect from you something more or something different than the frontal and irrational opposition to this proposal? [[Applauds]] It is not true, ladies and gentlemen, against what has been said, that legal operators have torn their clothes with this reform. It is not true that the doctrine has been positioned against it. It's completely fake. It is not true that there are no constitutionalists who are supporting it. First, the majority associations of judges and prosecutors have explicitly supported it in the media. Secondly, professors of such outstanding and classic constitutional law in Spain as Jorge Esteban or Francesc de Carreras - who also has Catalan sensibility - have expressly supported it as far as the background is concerned. Judges of the Supreme Court of as much prestige as Mr. Requero have expressly supported her. Former Presidents of the National Court have expressly supported it. A former Vice-President of the Constitutional Court of Mr Rodríguez Arribas's legal career has explicitly supported her. A professor who is not a suspect to you from an ideological point of view, such as Mr Gimbernat, has explicitly supported her. Therefore, it is not a question of us coming here to throw each other's legal doctrine at the head. It is that this legal arrogance with which you have dealt with this debate is absolutely inappropriate and completely out of place. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] I would like to respond calmly - and I hope objectively - to the five fundamental objections that have been opposed to the reform that we are dealing with here. The first objection is that the reform is unnecessary and it is said that it is unnecessary because the Criminal Code, the criminal procedure, the Constitutional Court, the legal or judicial mechanisms of ordinary aid are perfectly sufficient to address these types of issues and resolve these types of incidents. As far as the criminal issue is concerned, it is enough to say that the legal consequence of the commission of any offence is not the execution of the resolution which is intended to violate but rather the sanction. It's not a substitute, it's complementary. One thing is a precautionary measure that seeks to ensure that a decision is enforced and another is the sanction of a court, which is the legal reproach for failure to comply. So, they're completely different things, they're complementary, they're not alternatives. Secondly, precautionary measures exist in the rest of the legal system with complete normality. Thirdly, as regards the way of the prosecutor's office as an alternative to the reform that we introduced, it is enough to remember that on November 21, 2014, the prosecutor's office initiated and filed a complaint with the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and that ten months later we are as we are. A pseudo-consultation was held, suspended by the Constitutional Court, without the decision being enforceable as a precept, in an act of non-democratic rebellion but of unconstitutional rebellion. As for the channels of ordinary aid, the channels of ordinary aid serve ordinary situations, and you know it, serve for specific breaches of the decisions of the courts, including the Constitutional Court. For which they do not serve, it is for a strategy deployed by the ordinary representative of the State in an autonomous community to liquidate a constitutional State, precisely on the basis of the lack of immediate enforceability of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Second objection: the Government uses the Constitutional Court not to use article 155 of the Constitution. Mr. Esteban is not here, but, gentlemen of the PNV, you see things. I did not expect you to appeal to 155 to counter the reform we are putting in place. [[Applauds]] It is not a question of the Constitutional Court replacing the Government. It is not that any of the powers constitutionally vested in the Government or the Senate in article 155 pass to the Constitutional Court, no. I remind you that 155 is absolutely intact and available to the Government and Parliament. The issue is that the Constitutional Court will have sufficient precautionary measures to ensure compliance with its judgments and decisions. It is therefore a question of closing a crack that existed in the legal system, especially when from the institutions of the State - because the Generalitat is also an institution of the State - the secessionists pursue the liquidation of the country. It is therefore a matter for the Constitutional Court to be able to give effect to the power granted to it by article 117.3 of the Constitution, the power to enforce the court, which is granted to all courts of all jurisdictional orders, and not only to the judiciary. It is a matter for the Constitutional Court to guarantee something as important for a rule of law as the effective judicial protection of article 24.1 of the Constitution, and it is a matter for the Constitutional Court to guarantee and implement the mandate of 164.1 of the Constitution, that is, that its resolutions have effect against all, also vis-à-vis the President of the Generalitat. Finally, the assumption is in fact completely different. Article 155 refers to illegal, unconstitutional, serious and malicious action for the general interest of Spain, while the reform we introduce concerns a breach, any breach of any kind, in any sector, of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Third objection: the reform alters the nature of the Constitutional Court. Firstly, the Constitutional Court is not the negative legislator as has been said here. It is much more in Spain than the negative legislator. Not only does the legal system clean up unconstitutional laws, it not only deals with the remedy of unconstitutionality. It also deals with jurisdictional conflicts, amparo remedies, constitutional issues, etc. It's much more than the negative legislator. He is - also in Kelsen's words - the defender of the Constitution and as the defender of the Constitution must concentrate all the necessary resources to ensure the fulfilment of constitutional mandates. In any case, what cannot be done is that a constituted power, such as the Generalitat, can be set up as a substitute for the Constitutional Court and choose the judgments and decisions it must comply with and those that can be jumped to the torera. [[Applauds]] It is not that the Spanish Constitution did not provide for this function of the Constitutional Court to execute its decisions, because the current Organic Law, in its article 92, already contains in an indicative manner, in principle, the possibility that the Constitutional Court may intervene in the execution of its judgments; therefore, it is put in an indicative manner. What we do is articulate and provide much more secure instruments for the Constitutional Court itself to ensure compliance with its resolutions. Thirdly, do you want to tell me that the Austrian Constitutional Court, which is the pure kelsenian, or the German Constitutional Court, of a federal State, in which our Constitutional Court is based, are not democratic? Do you want to tell me that neither of these two federal republics are democratic republics? Do you want to tell me that the fact that the execution of the Constitutional Court's judgments is not regulated in the Constitution prevents its execution, so that nothing that is not in the Constitution can be regulated in this country? Can we not regulate new generation rights, for example, because they are not in the Constitution? A little serious when it comes to tackling the issues. Ladies and gentlemen, if the current Organic Law of the Constitutional Court had already contained this reform, nor would it have reached the Charlotesco non-compliance of the cardboard ballots of 9 November, neither the President could have said now, with absolute bad faith and with a deliberate oceanic ignorance that it is also a hairpin, that the Constitutional Court did not tell him which of its resolutions had to be suspended, and it would not have occurred because already the Constitutional Court would have suspended Mr. Mas, who would not have pulled the ballots out on the street, and today we would not be putting up with the horn, the banana spectacle of seeing a president of an autonomous community and his court of miracles, and there I include them, Mr. Tardà and Mr. Coscubiela, who are together, wrapped up, in full nervous attack, in the flag of Catalonia. It's so rude, it's so sappy, it's so elementary that it produces an indescribable democratic grime, watching you mount this number around the flag of all Catalans. Every time you do that, you bring Catalonia closer to a Bolivarian republic. Every time you do that you are making a mockery of Catalonia's historical, cultural and political reality and you are disrespecting Catalans. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have three very simple reflections which I believe all of us, any citizen, are capable of answering. I make them to the citizenry. First, why does a democratic country such as Spain, a member of the European Union, the Security Council, the United Nations and all the democratically approved intergovernmental and international bodies in the world have to stand by while the representative of the State in Catalonia affords the luxury of disregarding the resolutions of the Constitutional Court in a strategy of liquidation of our country? Why do we have to cross arms? Secondly, why does a country like Spain have to renounce elements of democratic strengthening of its institutions that have democratic countries like Germany or Austria? Thirdly, why does Spanish society have to endure that some political leader is allowed the luxury of not complying with the decisions and judgments of the courts while all other citizens have to comply with them, even if they do not seem fair to them? Why should the autonomous communities that you despise because they are not of 151 have to comply with the judgments, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and not you? Why? I am going to make a political consideration that I would like to address briefly to the Socialist Party, because the other day they took pictures here and accused us of boycotting the 2006 Statute, etc. First, it is you who suppressed in 1985, in an absolutely unilateral way and through the proposal of law, that is, without the report of the Council of State, the previous recourse of unconstitutionality for the statutes of autonomy, and from there all this comes. Secondly, it is you, with the famous jurist and professor Rodríguez Zapatero, who set up the mess of reforming the Statute of Autonomy by breaking for the first time in the history of Spain the consensus with the main opposition party, negotiating in the dark and in secret with Mr Mas, betraying even his own party in Catalonia - remember the reaction and anger of Mr Maragall - and it is you who passed for the first time in the democratic history of this country from a status of consensus to a status of exclusion. [[Applauds]] Therefore, do not come here and give them now that you have the mechanisms for resolving the conflict, as you call it. You set this matter on fire, and you can't turn up as the pyromaniac fireman right now. [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] I'll be done if you leave me. If you want, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u48	Please don't interrupt the speaker. You finish up, Mr. Gomez de la Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u49	Thank you, President. The civilized world - the Europeans, the Americans, the Canadians - contemplates the attitude of the authorities of the Generalitat astonishment and astonishment. You are turning Catalonia politically into an anomaly, into an extravagance, into a strange thing. What's this about disconnection, like Catalonia is an appliance? What is this about disconnection, if when one disconnects the one who dies is the household appliance, not the network? What kind of nonsense is this? Who will eventually respect you outside Spain with this way of acting politically? [[Laughter]] That is why not one of the one hundred and ninety-three States of the United Nations has supported them. That is why they have not obtained a single international recognition. That is why the international community has turned its back on them. There is no justice, ladies and gentlemen, if the public authorities do not comply with the resolutions. Consented contempt is the end of the legal order and that, as long as this parliamentary group supports the Government of Spain, is not going to happen. I don't know with others. With us you have the guarantee that it will not happen in any case. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez de la Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u51	Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 10/2015 of 11 September, granting extraordinary credits and credit supplements in the State budget and taking other measures in the field of public employment and the stimulation of the economy. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance and Public Administration has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we bring to the Congress of Deputies for its validation the Royal Decree-Law 10/2015, of 11 September, granting extraordinary credits and credit supplements in the state budget and taking other measures in the field of public employment and of stimulating the economy. This is a set of measures that require urgent approval, which justifies the Government's choice of this procedure. I would first like to highlight the public employment measures which include this royal decree and which range from the recovery of part of the extra payment withdrawn in December 2012 to the restitution of various days off to officials. As your ladies and gentlemen know, the critical situation in Spain, the Spanish economy at the beginning of the legislature, in 2012, prompted the Government to take numerous initiatives to correct the imbalances that affected us. In this regard, we adopt a comprehensive and complex strategy to combat rapidly, as a shock plan, the high deficit of our public administrations. The deficit was one of the factors that had placed Spain in the face of a scenario that then seemed to inevitably push us to the financial rescue. If that rescue had materialized, it would not only have damaged in a destructive way the image and credibility of Spain, of our economy, but would also have led to the loss of autonomy of government policy and would have had to face extremely serious and profound social cuts as we have seen happening in other European countries. Among the measures taken to reduce public expenditure and thus contribute to the reduction of the deficit, the Government decided to postpone the payment of the December 2012 extra payment to all public workers dependent on the various administrations. On that day of July, when I defended that measure from this rostrum, I explained that the pay was not abolished, that the payment of that pay was moved in time. That is why today I can go back to this rostrum to say that we are complying with what we said at that time and what we have placed, in particular to public officials, to whom we had explained through their trade union representatives that the Government's intention was not to reduce their remuneration, but to postpone in time the collection of their remuneration, as we are now, in 2015, fulfilling, now that we have a scenario of control of the public deficit that is allowing it - as I will now insist - from the figures published two days ago and that, in compliance with the transparency in terms of national accounting of our country's public accounts, they defend the measures that I am proposing to the House today. It had nothing to do with that withdrawal from the December 2012 pay, with what civil servants suffered with the last socialist government, which cut its payroll while freezing public pensions. That was a permanent measure, that was a wage reduction, which was an average of 5% and caused officials to lose their purchasing power. For that reason, the Government already announced that one thing was to postpone the payment of the extra payment and another very different thing was to abolish it and it was not being suppressed in the measures we adopted in this House in July 2012, so that now that the economic situation and the control of the deficit, and also the control of the deficit of the various public administrations, allow it, we are facing that return that we committed at the most difficult time in our country, as it was that summer of 2012. In addition, within this policy of reducing the public deficit, we approved the freezing of the staffing of public sector staff, which had grown too much in the years of economic crisis, in contrast to what was happening with employment in the private sector, where we saw that the destruction of jobs - three and a half million jobs in the previous legislature - contrasted, in terms of worse quality, with the widening of staffing in the public sector. That was simply unfunded and was therefore weighing on the public coffers in a completely wrong policy on the part of the previous socialist government. The freezing of calls for new posts in the Administration, where only a 10% replacement rate was initially allowed in key sectors, was offset by a greater presence of staff also in their jobs. For example, we promote a reduction in the number of leave days for private matters and holidays, so that the internal work of the Administration and public service are as unfettered as possible. This royal decree-law of today corrects those measures adopted in the Public Service, and corrects them when - I insist - the economic conditions and in particular the budgetary conditions allow it, once the economic policy applied these years has allowed to correct, reorient and even make disappear much of the imbalances that forced them to take. Yesterday we knew Spain's balance of payments until July. Yesterday we knew that Spain had a financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world of 2% of gross domestic product, in the same year that our economy is growing thanks to the recovery of domestic demand, and we saw that it is possible to maintain the external financial balance for the first time in our history, making it compatible with the growth of domestic demand in a sustained way, thanks to savings from public administrations, which compensated for the lower savings from the private sector, because obviously also in it the investment is recovering. This is what makes credible and sustainable the economic policy that is leading us to correct our country's economic imbalances. I understand that what I have just summarized is not understandable in terms of great public opinion, but it is the key to the economic change that Spain is experiencing. Precisely the need for financing vis-à-vis the rest of the world, which reached 10% of our gross domestic product in 2007, brought us into the very deep crisis that the then government did not want to recognize. Many analysts also did not want to recognize the consequences of a crisis that was looming over us because of this external deficit, because of this need for Spain's funding vis-à-vis the rest of the world. That is what we are correcting; that is what serves to reduce the public deficit. For this reason, every time we reduce the public deficit we grow more and more jobs are created in Spain and that is why today this decree-law comes to recognize those who have been the architects, the public officials, who have sustained the supply and quality of public services. Now, when we are recording these economic conditions, we can return the effort to these officials and tell them that they have every right to find a reward for having provided so much to turn the Spanish economy around, by the way, at a record time, winning all the forecasts. These days we have seen how rating agencies improve Spain's growth forecasts for this year. All analysts, both inside and outside Spain, review the forecasts of economic growth upwards. If you want to understand this, this royal decree-law comes to correct what we did in July 2012. We did it at the time we had to do it, making decisions that were then the only ones that could get us out of the crisis, as we are effectively checking throughout 2015. Consequently, the economic policy measures contained in this Decree-Law relate first of all to the chapter on budgetary amendments and include, on the one hand, the granting of several extraordinary appropriations and additional appropriations in the State budget amounting to EUR 630.571.641.30. A credit supplement is introduced into the budget of Section 31, amounting to EUR 252 million. This money will be used to finance the recovery of part of that extraordinary pay of public employees for 2012. I remember that the refund of the above-mentioned extra pay began in January of this year and is now going to continue in October in the General Administration of the State. In the first part of October, officials of the General Administration of the State will receive this pay quarter on a payroll other than the general payroll they receive monthly. The return will be completed next year, as foreseen by the General Budgets of the State for the year 2016, which are currently being processed in the Senate. The regulation of this return is of a basic and powerful nature, so that the rest of the public administrations will decide whether to agree on payment according to their economic and financial situation. As I said a few minutes ago, with the return of this new part of the extra payment, the Government is scrupulously fulfilling its commitment to public workers and their trade union representatives. We said that money would be returned and now we're doing it; we're already starting to do it at the beginning of the year. There are those who interpret that this has to do with the fact that we are at the end of the legislature, but with what it has to do - I insist - it is with economic recovery, which is a tangible reality that did not exist before; it has to do with the improvement of the margin of public finances, in particular the state finances, which today can make these disbursements. In addition, this new situation, which includes increased collection, has allowed to advance to July part of the tax rebate that we had programmed by law that would enter into force in the IRPF in January 2016 and that is already being applied to payrolls, pensions, retentions of civil servants, pensioners and private sector workers. At this point in the year we can say that it has fully entered into force. How are the state budgets supporting these decisions being conducted? We knew this very week the result of the state's position in terms of national accounts closed in August. August already incorporated in the payrolls of the workers of the General Administration of the State the decrease of the IRPF, the second of the year, which translates into a new tariff and therefore in the new deductions to the decrease of the IRPF. How is the state's collection going in the period from January to August? The increase in this tax collection, in terms of national accounts, is 6.7 %. It should be borne in mind that from January to August, through the tax reduction, we have injected into taxpayers' pockets of the order of 3 billion euros and tax collection is rising - I insist - in terms of national accounts almost 7 %, which shows that we are doing the budgetary policy that we did in the times when we were government before, the policy that we did in the years 1999 and 2003, a policy that is working again to stimulate economic activity, to grow, to create employment and to broaden the tax base. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very relevant fact, which of course has not appeared in any medium of communication. The headlines have spoken of the deficit of the autonomous communities. I insist from the rostrum to try to convince someone of the importance of correctly reading the data that our national accounts publish every month and inviting the media to reflect the real evolution of our country's national accounts. This is what sustains that economic change, which makes the economic policy that we are implementing consistent and protects measures like this that we are moving forward. In particular, in August the deficit of the State - State component - stood at 2.53% of gross domestic product. This means that, compared to the first eight months of the previous year, in the period January-August 2014 the government deficit fell by no less than 21,9 %, almost 22 %, taking into account that we had already paid the first part of the payment in January. This budgetary framework - 22% reduction in the state deficit - has also not merited any headlines, but we must explain it, we must be in it. All the headlines have been that the autonomous communities do not comply, but they are complying with the State and by fulfilling and explaining why they do we are anticipating the financing of the other subsectors of the Spanish State, of the Spanish Administration. It is very relevant what is happening, because what we are reading is the behavior of all the public administrations of Spain. Now, with this data, with these facts, we make decisions and we are sure that these decisions, which are on the one hand more expenditure - the return of pay - will be consistent with the objectives of reducing the public deficit, as we are getting month by month. As for the days of leave, the days known as days of free disposal, this royal decree restores the situation that existed in 2011, both in permits for particular matters and in permits for particular matters by seniority and in the additional days of vacation by seniority. We can do that, I insist, once we have changed the replacement rate for this year and reached a total number of public employees in Spain similar to that we had in 2004. We have gone to 100 per cent replacement rates of public staff and, once we have implemented them, we can return that reduction in the number of days of free disposal, of holidays in a totally saved way and consistent with our public policy approaches. And I'd like to insist on the credit supplement I've described. I am talking about credit supplement because it has been understood something like that the Government of Spain had to make a debt issue in order to repay the extra payment. No, we have included it in the deficit targets, that is, we do it because the State, the General Administration of the State, is going to achieve the planned deficit target altogether. This is not how it has spread and this is very important in the political debate with the autonomous communities, with local governments and so on. We are doing so when we have met our deficit target and are therefore doing so as we have always done, guided and coherently. What we're enabling is a credit supplement. Returning to the budgetary changes, I have to note that, together with the credit supplement dedicated to the refund of the extra payment, there are extraordinary credits and a credit supplement of EUR 262 million for the Ministry of Development. Most of this money corresponds to prior years' obligations amounting to EUR 251.3 million. These are investments undertaken by the Roads Directorate-General, which affect expropriations, interest on delays, price revisions and final certifications and liquidations. In addition, an additional EUR 31 million is intended to finance higher costs than initially foreseen in the actions carried out by the Society of Rescue and Maritime Safety to combat the pollution of the ship Oleg Naydenov, which know that it sank in the vicinity of the Canary Islands. It also includes extraordinary credits and credit supplements for €76 million to meet obligations from previous years of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment. Of this amount, 40 million correspond to IBI's payment of state-owned reservoirs and other assets, and 36 million to certifications, price revisions, expropriations and other investments of the Directorate-General for Water. Finally, this royal decree-law contains an extraordinary credit in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, for the amount of 20 million euros, destined for the acquisition of tactical and logistic vehicles. It should be borne in mind that the Spanish army actively participates in missions abroad to combat terrorism and peacekeeping, and that in many of these certain armoured vehicles are needed. The budgetary restrictions of these years have meant that the available vehicles have been used intensively, to the limit of their operating cycle, and it is therefore necessary at this time to acquire ninety-two of these vehicles, both in order to allocate them to the missions and to be able to train in the handling of them to the personnel framed in the successive relays. This Royal Decree-Law also amends Law 7/1965 of 2 April, which regulates the bases of local government, to ensure greater control of public accounts in small municipalities. The local reform adopted in this legislature has been a very important step in controlling the finances of local entities by empowering professional officials to carry out this work. In recent years, the Government has promoted the convening of extraordinary job offers to provide these positions, but the number of vacancies is very high and there is no room for replacing all employees who are doing these jobs from night to morning with new professionals with national qualifications. This royal decree-law gives a transitional solution to this problem that arises in local entities of municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, which are also the ones with the least economic resources. The solution is that local actors and secretaries can carry out these treasury control functions in an additional way; in this way, this important task is placed in the hands of officials to continue the professional and independent control of our municipal finances. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the royal decree we bring to the House seeks to help entities that are at financial risk so that they can meet their payment obligations. Today it is known and acknowledged that in the last four years local entities have made a great effort to reduce their debt and their public deficit. This expenditure control effort has led our local administration to have a budget surplus and is working very actively to achieve the deficit targets agreed with the European Union. However, there are 219 local entities facing serious financial problems, which has led the Government to take extraordinary measures in this legislature to help them move forward. These financial problems harm other entities, such as suppliers and contractors working for these municipalities, who do not charge in time and form their invoices due to the lack of liquidity of the above-mentioned entities. It should be borne in mind that if we do not solve this problem, there is a risk that these local entities will be bankrupt or that their suppliers will stop working for them, which would cause their neighbours to cease to have essential services such as garbage collection, road light or water supply. As you know, one of the concerns of the government in this legislature has been that all administrations pay their bills in a maximum amount of time, so as not to harm so many suppliers, so many self-employed and so many businesses - small and medium-sized, many of them, but also large - that work for the public sector. To achieve this, initiatives such as the Supplier Payment Fund and other liquidity mechanisms were taken, in addition to setting maximum payment periods for outstanding invoices. In this line, the Royal Decree-Law approves the granting of advances on the participation of the affected municipalities in the revenues of the State of 2016, the maximum amount of which will be the amount that they received on account for this concept in 2015. These advances must necessarily be used to cancel outstanding debts with suppliers and contractors in order to reduce the average payment period to suppliers to a maximum of 30 days. Local entities will be required to return this money through loan operations that will be formalised in June 2016 from the ten-year-old local funding fund's behaviour. With this money these local entities will also have to deal with the execution of final judgments and the payment of outstanding public debts with the Tax Agency and the General Treasury of Social Security. If all the municipalities concerned requested the corresponding advance for their maximum amount it would entail a disbursement of EUR 593,8 million. Those municipalities which are at risk because of their financial situation and which have acceded to or acceded to the local authority management fund compartment in 2015 may also, on an exceptional basis, request, before 15 October, the formalisation of loans from that compartment to cancel the outstanding public debt with the Tax Agency and the General Treasury of Social Security, which is currently being compensated by the application of withholding taxes on State tax participation. This measure could cover a maximum of EUR 212 million. As I said to your ladies and gentlemen, the fight against the lateness that we have undertaken from the government, which includes these measures to which I referred, has had important benefits for companies that contract with the public administration but has contributed fundamentally to the decoupling of our economy. The money injected to deal with outstanding invoices, besides helping these businesses - as I said, mostly SMEs and self-employed - to move forward in times of crisis has served to stimulate economic activity. However, on numerous occasions, self-employed and small businesses have called for other initiatives that would help to reduce the backlog in the private sector. In the same vein, the European Commission has called on the Kingdom of Spain to take measures to reduce the payment periods for this sector, as it has already done in the public sector. The Government continues to work on the search for ways to indirectly encourage large companies to pay their debts to self-employed and other companies within a maximum period of time. Now, the Public Sector Contracts Act requires that a company be able to contract with the public administration to prove its economic and financial capacity. To this end, contracting authorities may require an annual turnover, the existence of occupational risk insurance or a net worth figure. From now on, with this new law, another possible requirement is added: to include the average period of payment to suppliers as another element for crediting economic and financial solvency. In this way, any contracting authority of the Administration may leave out of its award to large undertakings which do not pay their suppliers within a maximum period of time. The Government considers that lateness is a serious obstacle to economic recovery in which we are immersed as a country, as this lateness makes suppliers unable to pay in turn to other actors in the production chain or obliges them to be indebted unnecessarily, with the consequent losses of efficiency and competitiveness and with the highest financial costs, both for themselves and for the economy as a whole. Over these years it has been shown that only with calls to pay in time and form - it is good to do so, but its effectiveness is relative, it is not achieved too much - is not enough and that some companies abuse their economic power to impose their terms on smaller and modest suppliers or subcontractors. That is unacceptable and less so at a time when we need to improve the efficiency of our country's economy as a whole, of all economic actors, and the competitiveness and efficiency of all enterprises, starting with small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed ones; that is what strengthens and drives job creation. The Government has therefore decided to intervene in private relations in this way, albeit indirectly - as I said earlier - to defend the weakest actors against the temptations of abuse of the strongest. Of course, this does not mean that there is a free market; in fact, all parties will be able to continue to act freely in their commercial relations. Large companies - understood as those that cannot draw up short profit and loss accounts - should know that if they do not pay their suppliers in time, they run the risk of not being able to contract with the public administration. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to extend this presentation further, I will only mention the change that is introduced in the system of access and provision of teaching and research staff positions at public universities. The Royal Decree-Law, approved by the Government, last September 11, amends the Organic Law of Universities to allow access to the body of university professors, through internal promotion, to any member of the body of university professors. In addition, it provides on a permanent basis for the provision of vacancies in a university with professors and professors from other universities, which has already been temporarily authorized by the State General Budgets Act 2015. This solves problems that are raised in the field of our universities and whose origin are the low replacement rates applied during previous years. In addition, the path of internal promotion is strengthened as a substantial part of the professional career of university professors, which will undoubtedly also serve to encourage their work and give greater stability to their important teaching and research role in our society. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, this royal decree-law includes important measures for different areas of our economy and of our science and research, whose approval requires the utmost urgency. These are measures that will favour public officials, local authorities with difficulties, small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed persons and universities, and will also improve certain activities carried out in several ministries. The legislature is coming to an end and we consider it very necessary that all these objective needs that I have raised be met immediately. That is why I ask the House to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u53	Thank you, Minister of Finance. Are you going to turn against a group? [[Pause]] Mr Coscubala has the floor for the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this royal decree-law is a perfect but negative summary of the entire legislature: an abusive use of decree-laws, with an intensity and frequency that has broken the basic rules of the rule of law, which is the distribution of powers. That the abuse of the decree-law has been the usual rather than the extraordinary, as our Constitution establishes, cannot lead us to the complacency in this Congress to consider it normal in democratic terms. We will not tire of saying this because the basic functions of the Legislative Power are being profoundly deteriorated. Separation of powers is a key element in distinguishing a parliamentary system from an absolutist regime, such as that governed by Spain during these four years. The abuse of decree-laws has been accompanied not only in quantitative terms - sixty-six decree-laws so far - but also by a twisting manipulation of their contents, mixing barbecues with merinas, things that are impossible to validate in a single act. In fact, they have turned validation debates into empty parliamentary acts, with no democratic sense at all, and a mockery of the Constitution and this Congress. And they end as they began: in this way so disrespectful to the basic rules of the Constitution and of democracy itself. In this royal decree-law they remix contents that it is not possible to validate in a single vote: the recovery of a part of the extra pay of public employees for 2012; the extension of credits for military expenses; budgetary deviations, which they now discover, from the financial year 2014; increase of items to deal with debts of local administrations caused by their policies; coverage of places of university professors and other holders through internal promotion as a result of an absolutely Kafkian application of the replacement rate. So a long et cetera, all mixed up in an absolutely perverse cocktail. The Government is acting today as it has been doing throughout the legislature, with a strategy that pretends to be Machiavellian and that, if you will excuse me, seems more like a tahur of law, because this does not stand up to having to put to the vote, put to the vote, each and every one of these issues together. We don't say that, do we? On some occasion some member of the People's Party in the Commission, even - I think I recall - the spokesman for the economy, Mr Vicente Martínez-Pujalte, in the summer of 2014 came to recognize from this very stand the anomaly that was supposed to validate a single vote with content so diverse and contradictory, but you do as some with Galileo Galilei: 500 years later you recognize the error, but you continue to make it, and today you present yourselves once again with the decree-law number 66 of this legislature; that is, behaving with the same political self-confidence as up to now. They recognize what they've done before, but they're still the same. The Government thus acts with impunity to know that it has guaranteed the validation by the People's Group, which at times I have the impression that more than supporting the Government what it does is to support the Government and its cacicadas, like the rest of the Members of this House, but with the peace of knowing that in the worst of cases when one of these decree-laws comes to the Constitutional Court it is very likely, as has happened on other occasions, that its declaration of nullity no longer serves anything because its contents are absolutely aged. It is an abusive decree-law because of the way in which this extraordinary form is abused; it is crooked in the manipulation of its contents and, if I may express it, it is insulting to a large part of the victims of its cuts and its misunderstood policy of austerity, and then I explain it to them. On the way in, you do the usual thing again: the return of a part of the extra pay is done to pieces, drop by drop, in an electoral campaign hybrid with alms distribution at the Friday Mass in which the Council of Ministers has become. Do you think it is normal that something such as the retribution of public officials be subjected to that kind of almsy liturgy by the Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro: now I give you back a quarter, now I give you back 26% and now if I am interested I will give you back the rest? It's not possible. In addition, the Government, look carefully, justifies this in the text of the decree-law - you have repeated it again now - on the basis of the need to restore, to return the effort made by public employees. No, as I told you on the occasion of Decree 20/2012, effort is not; effort is a thing that one does voluntarily; what public employees have done is have to endure the usurpation of their rights, and I remind you that not only economic, but also collective bargaining rights that continue in a state of emergency with this Decree-Law - then I will refer to it -. That is, according to you, all that sacrifice - of a few, not of all - is motivated by the need to strengthen what you call the path of growth. Can you explain to the long-term unemployed for more than 50 years what it is for them to have improved the balance of payments, which of course is important? [[The Minister of Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero, makes gestures to the speaker]] No, I know him. But how do you see it now?How do the dependents notice it, 470,000 of them with the recognized right and who cannot perceive it by their policies, that the situation is improving and that we are on the path of growth? I say this because in the content of your decree-law the worst of all is how you treat the victims of your policies: in an abusive way, if I am allowed expression, in social and political terms. The PP ends the legislature in the same way as it began, because today you should explain why you think that, for example, it should be returned just, no doubt and not to pieces, not to drip but to the full, the extra pay of the public employees of 2012 and does not restore the right of the elderly in a situation of dependence to access a right that they have recognized or even recover part of the benefit that many of them have ceased to receive because it has been significantly reduced, or also why you usurped their rights in Decree-Law 20/2012 as regards the compensations of the unemployed people who lost their jobs, the company did not pay them and you reduced the amount to receive subsidiaryly by the Wage Guarantee Fund. All these people are victims who continue to be rocked, cornered by their concerns and, instead, you come here today to say that you come to make up for the effort made by a certain type of collective because they did so for the benefit of the country and you now compensate them for taking advantage of it in the path of reducing public spending. The effort you imposed on them - because it is not effort, it was imposed on you - to all those collectives allowed not to reduce public spending - public spending must always be reduced to seek budgetary balance, but you can find that budgetary balance by increasing revenue - but above all a much more perverse thing: to establish perverse priorities from the political point of view, because the money you have saved in recent years, for example, in reducing the payment to the unemployed - some of them of long duration, over fifty-five years, to which you have run, yes, since July 2012 when that decree-law was passed - has allocated it to other items, and not only to debt servicing, but to bank bailout. You should re-explain very well what the priorities of this Government are. Even at times like this, where, according to you, there is room to improve, you should explain to those unemployed over forty-five years old in one case, and fifty-five years old in another, why you reduced your rights, why you are currently falling the coverage rate of the elderly, why people who have worked thirty-five years and who lose their jobs have no chance of having a new one. You are subject to only a welfare allowance of EUR 426; you have reduced your contribution, which will affect your pensions, from 125 of the minimum base to one hundred per cent. Despite that supposed recovery, you continue to crush, crush, crush and accuse them socially. Why don't you explain that here today instead of bragging about the return of a quarter of the public employees' extra pay? Because public employees were victims at the time of their policies, but so were all those workers, which I am reminding you today, unemployed - in some cases unemployed in extreme situations - because because they cannot even retire in advance, because with the changes in social security you have extended in some cases the early retirement from sixty-one to sixty-three years. They do not guarantee them employment - they cannot be guaranteed by the Government, but they do not do much to do so -; they are kept unemployed, with an allowance for assistance, harassing them, and above all they are hampered by early retirement. And you come today boasting that as things go well, you can return the suffering you have imparted to those people. No, you do not return anything to all these people; you are going to end the legislature with those people in worse conditions than those you started with, and above all with the conviction that with that measure you did not intend to reduce public spending, you were going to want something that you missed in that royal decree-law - I have told you many times and I am going to tell you again every time you can on this stand or out of here - which is a way of incentivising the active search for employment for the unemployed, as if you are getting too high a subsidy, you are not going to want to find employment, because basically that measure that you are holding today and that you are not returning at the end of the legislature is a way of forcing the unemployed to hire themselves in any condition, even misery, because the great achievement of the Rajoy government, of your government as a whole, is that whoever loses his job at this time and can be employed again, has at least a salary of 30% less than what he had before. That is their great achievement, wage devaluation, wage depreciation, but not as a cyclical element, as a deeply structural element of their policy. That's why labor reform was burdened, that's why in labor reform the collective bargaining was burdened with four torpedoes in the line of flotation of collective bargaining, and that's why you have gone to subject the unemployed to the hunger pact, so that they will be hired in any condition, because for you labor relations are a market in which the need for work is exchanged for misery. [[The Minister of Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero, stands up and speaks with the deputies of the seats on his back]] By the way, Mr Montoro, I see you asking for help, and I am not surprised, because it came with a very nice speech of political marquetin and you find someone explaining the reality to you. For example, in relation to public employees, you do not return to public employees all the rights that you usurped in Royal Decree-Law 20/2012. Do you remember its contents? You don't, I do. For example, in relation to paid permits or in relation to the holiday supplement, you charged yourself with the right and charged yourself with collective bargaining, because they were rights that were established in collective bargaining. And you say you're returning them today, but you're partially returning them; you haven't yet given those public employees the right to continue having collective bargaining. Look closely, if you go to the local administration, you will find that many of these rights were established as an exchange with their respective administrations. They yielded and gave others, and gave them some leave and an extension of vacation that you took care of with the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 and which now does not return. That's why you can't come here with that almsy face handing out bits of the 2012 extra pay. In case it were little - I insist - when are you going to restore the rights to the unemployed over forty-five years old, over fifty-five years old, to whom you have been harassing? Say something before the end of the legislature, because if not, those unemployed will have the legitimate intention of returning the harassment to you. How? In the ballot box, democratically; and if you do, it will be well deserved; to you, of course. I end with the analysis of the extraordinary credits. Here, Mr Montoro - I am sorry - is where you stand naked, because it is a mixture of budgetary traps, parliamentary trilerism and political improvisation. It's true, it's urgent, but it's urgent, why? Because you're moving the cubes every time you're interested and on time. You have become a regular thing to present unreal budgets, the last one in 2016. Today you have bragged about the increase in income. Why doesn't it explain that we have social spending revenues of 1.8%, when you predicted 6.8% in 2015 and, despite that, they present 2016's saying they're going to rise 8%? Why do you insist on deceiving citizens in this way with budgets? Of course, they are then presented with budgets that are not met, and as they are not met: extraordinary credits. You have turned the extraordinary credits of the Ministry of Defence into a classic. There will soon be more money in the credit enlargements than in the initial budget, and they do so by mixing absolutely everything, with issues that, if they presented separately, we would vote in favour on many occasions, but not on others. That is why it is impossible to do the debate like this. You are taking on the essence of democracy, which is the division of powers and the function of validation of this decree-law. By the way, he said a truth today: We're going to replenish rights - that's partial - and we're going to solve problems...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u55	Mr. Coscubala, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u56	...that we create - I finish, Madam President - when we set the replacement rate. Yeah, but we warned him. When he presented himself with another royal decree-law proposing that certain collectives improve their replacement rate, we told him that the teaching and research bodies of the universities, in addition to other collectives, were left out of that. And you, as always, treated us with the pride that gives you to say: I have more votes and, as I have more votes, I can do whatever I want. Well, you can't come now like this.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u57	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u58	I'm done. That is why I have told you, Mr Montoro, that in that section, too, yours does not stand up. You cannot manage the budget with that degree of political improvisation, of permanent trilerism, because it does not dignify the institutions and does not dignify you. That's why my turn against it. Our group is going to do the usual thing: we cannot endorse these practices, we cannot vote in favour of this decree-law, although we are very happy that public employees... Yes, yes, but why don't you return it... [[Mrs Madrazo Díaz utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u59	Mr. Coscubala, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u60	... once in a single act and not almsy? Then we shall vote in favour. Thank you. [[The Minister for Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u62	Thank you, Madam President. I am speaking as soon as possible, of course, but I will respond to the turn against. Mr Coscubala has tried to reason on values, elements and positions that are his prejudices. It is clear the balance that we are reaching in this legislature. In this House a radical left has been set up which would have been the best option for it if Spain had intervened and whose pity is that there would not have been a rescue as is being practiced in countries where that radical left is in the Government. That is what we have here sown, Mr Coscubiela, and you are a worthy representative of that radical left. It goes under different acronyms, but it has exercised a destructive position in this House at the worst time Spain has experienced recently. That is called making destructive opposition, denying everything, refusing, as he did this morning, to return part of the pay to the officials. We're already in the mood. He said in the end: It seems very good to me everything in here, but I refuse because they don't do other things. If we were to do so, I would not defend any part of economic policy; I would always miss the next facet of economic policy and, of course, its budgetary approach. Mr Coscubala, your speech today has been a reflection of the speech of the radical left of this country. The radical left of this country is a burden on economic recovery. The radical left of this country is an opposition to economic recovery and the future of prosperity for the Spaniards. Only from this future of prosperity for the Spaniards can the economic recovery come, can the creation of employment for all, also for those long-term unemployed for whom we work from the Spanish Government, opening up a clearly promising horizon, which is that of the possibility of finding employment. This is what is happening with the economic recovery, which has already allowed for a million new jobs created in Spain in 2014, against forecasts, and in 2015, also surpassing forecasts. You will not recognise this because, if you did, it would be like showing that in Spain there have been economic policies that make it feasible to create more than half a million jobs in a single year. These are the economic policies that this Government is bringing to the House and to which the radical left has opposed, which, by the way, is increasingly in coalition with the other left represented in this House, which has also been systematically opposing each of these proposals. That is why they have made such alliances throughout Spain after the municipal and autonomous elections. You, Mr Coscubiela, are - of course you are - a problem; those who are a problem are you. Now we are seeing that, thanks to the fact that we made policies like those we did at the time, today we can restore rights, economic capabilities and open a new horizon for public officials and finally end the freezing of public officials for next year, 2016. All that we are doing when we really - I insist - Spain stabilizes economically, becomes reliable, reliable. Another Treasury auction is being held today, where interest rates on placement are being reduced. That is what it is doing that Spain can lay the foundations for its economic growth, but you, on the radical left, do not want that to happen. He did not want Spain to emerge from the economic crisis. You were in the crisis of the system, but, as I recalled yesterday in the Senate, as long as the trumpets that bring down the walls of Jericho sound, someone is going to return the pay to the officials, someone is making the purchasing power of the workers of this country recover, by lowering the income tax of the natural persons, placing the vast majority of the workers of Spain, including the public and pensioners, in a position of payment of the income tax better than that they had in 2011. Someone, with their policies, is opening up a horizon of future, economic recovery and job creation. However, you, as you are proving, are a ballast. It has come to oppose the content of this decree-law without arguments because what it has done has been to refer to all that it does not contemplate. What it does not contemplate is what will be resolved in the next parliamentary term. When we have a situation in Spain with 20 million occupied at the end of the next parliamentary term, what will that radical left say? What are you gonna say? Where will your proposals be? Where will the damage caused by these economic policies be identified? This is the underlying argument, as we once again attended a debate on policies and conceptions in Spain. Therefore, I do not use this turn against to refute the arguments, because the arguments you have put forward have nothing to do with the content of this decree-law, as you yourself have acknowledged. The decree-law suits you well, seems insufficient. I too would have liked to be able to return everything and more, but, Mr Coscubiela, we are doing things with wisdom and prudence, which must be the rules that mark every policy. We must stop doing so much demagogy and making politics realistic, understandable to the vast majority of the citizens of Spain. That is what we need in our country: less money and more concrete proposals. Because where would your lordship get the budgetary resources to do everything he has suggested that we have to do this morning if we don't take sides, if we don't win the economic crisis? Your Honor already denies that we are in a job-creating economic recovery, which has won the most positive forecasts only a year ago, denies everything. I simply have to say that you and the political formation that you represent do not want to see economic recovery in Spain; you do not want to see any job creation; you do not want to see budgets that are returning the effort to all citizens; you do not want to see the pay back to civil servants, but I am sure that the unions of those civil servants receive these measures well and, of course, they are betting on a political position in this House that these measures will have continuity in the coming year and be consistent with the achievement of the public deficit objectives, which is what strengthens the welfare state, which is what makes the supply of all public services in the state solid. Everything's wrong with you. They find it bad that our troops are better prepared in those counter-terrorism and peace operations. It seems to you that everything a government does, like the current one, does wrong. Well, if you were to represent some options of government - you are in other administrations of Spain - if you were to join as part of a government in the future you would be a severe threat to that economic recovery, would prevent economic growth and would go back dramatically to the box where we were in 2012. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u63	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'm not prejudiced. Mine is data; I have given them to you and you have repeated them to us. I have given you data like those that say that in Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 - you boast today saying that you are going to return the effect caused by that - the long-term unemployed stopped receiving and were severely punished with a reduction in their rights of access to the unemployment benefit. The data say that at that time the dependency situation caused a situation of 470,000 less dependent; the data say that in that royal decree-law, which you quote in today's explanatory statement, there was a penalty, a reduction in the compensations of the dismissals by the Wage Guarantee Fund. The data also say that their measures aimed at the unemployed are primarily intended to pressure them to accept few wages. And why am I talking about the unemployed? Because you're the one who says that you come here to return the rights that you took from them in 2012, and I have an obligation to remind you that no, that some continue to be totally harassed by this government. The data says that you present budgets every year in the Ministry of Defense unreal and sell them by saying that you reduce defense spending, and then, between May and July, you present with an extraordinary decree-law of credit to increase those defense spending. And this year they haven't had enough with one, who present themselves with a second, and they always do it by mixing the data of the Ministry of Defense of some extraordinary credits with others. That's not prejudice; that's data that you can't fight because it's the pure reality. The data reminds you that, please, do not go up here to show the improvement of the revenues of the public administrations without remembering that Social Security is in a very complicated situation, as a result of your policies of depreciation of wages and punishment of contributions. The one who spoke and boasted of the economic situation was you, therefore, I too have the right to challenge you on this subject. Mr Montoro, not with us; to us that of the radical left not; at best, in privacy someone else. We are deeply proud of two things: to be of the radical left and to know the etymological origin of the radical term: root, root. We are radical because we are going to the root of the problems, which unfortunately some do not. [[Applauds]] Look, if for you to be radical it is to denounce that at the moment 40% of the unemployed do not have any kind of subsidy and that those who have it, less than 50%, are existential, yes we are radical. If being radical is to remind them that there is a law that recognizes the right to dependence of 470,000 people who cannot exercise it by a restriction of credit, we are radical. If radical is to say that at the moment tax gifts are being made to certain groups, taking the tax system only in relation to those who enter and not in relation to those who receive these policies through public spending, yes, we are radical. If radical is to say that it is not worthy for a country to adopt fiscal amnesty with the levels of tax fraud it has, yes, we are radical Yes, yes. [[Minister of Finance and Public Administration, Montoro Romero, makes negative gestures]] If radical is to tell you that it is not true that we do not have alternatives, because we have presented them, for example, that this country must at some point consider the tragedy of having a tax revenue of 9% less than the average of the European Union - Eurostat data for 2014: liquidation, 90 billion euros - in that case, yes - I recognize it - we are radical. We are radical in all that and in many other things. From there they can come out, from the Sicav; from a tax on wealth; from an improvement in the treatment of societies, from ending the mechanism by which double taxation is the instrument. There are many mechanisms to do so and you know it, but it involves touching the interests of certain groups. And don't cheat on us. I have told you that of course we are in favour - it would be missing more - of the return of the extra payment to public employees, but not in a self-evident way, as you put it, in droplets, of 25% by 25%, like the one at the door of the church delivering alms. No, no, in a dignified way, in the same way that they took it away: at one time and in a decree-law that speaks only of the conditions of public employees, not that it makes us swallow public employees with increased defense spending. Who do you want to fool, Mr. Montoro? Who do you want to convince outside this House? You come here with a trap, with a decree-law again abusive and crooked. We say no to the abusive use of the decree-law, not to a decree-law with crooked contents by which if you want to return the extra pay to public employees you have to swallow the increase in defense spending. No, no, and no, even though I'm doing demagogy out there and saying that we're against the return of the public employees' extra pay.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u65	Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u66	We are in favour, we are fighting for you not to do that and we are going to continue to fight for rights to be returned in the next legislature, but not you but another more worthy government. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u67	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiela. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u68	The radical left-wing self-definition that you love me produces at least caution and prevention. [[Mr Coscubiela Conesa utters words that are not perceived]] You use arguments that have nothing to do with what they are proposing, if they make any proposals, proposals that are also a contradiction, impossible, and that would bring us back to the economic crisis and the crisis of confidence in Spain. That's what would happen. Furthermore, Mr Coscubiela, you have made a number of statements that are simply false. The radical left also implies knowledge, so that it reads the figures and does the favor of not repeating topicalities. You talk about how the collection has evolved in Spain and how the fight against tax fraud has evolved, and I will recommend this document, Tax Policy Strategy, hung on the website of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, on whose page 15 you can see how the collection has evolved these years until the first half of 2015. Read it, Mr Coscubiela, see where taxes come from, which is like saying who is paying more taxes than at the beginning of the legislature, and you will be amazed when you read it and see that the biggest increase in revenue comes from corporate tax. In the rest of the taxes in Spain, in the IRPF, in VAT and in excise duties, we have returned to the total of the 2007 collection, compared, by the way, with a very similar gross domestic product, so that a very similar fiscal pressure emerges. And where is the difference, with regard to the tax collection that we have in our country compared to 2007 - the ante-story of the economic crisis - is in corporate tax, in what small and medium-sized enterprises finance, whose contribution to corporate tax has hardly grown, of course, because it is now when profits are increasing, but big companies have done so and have done so with this government and with the legislation that we passed in 2012. You were sitting there, or weren't you sitting when the new corporate tax legislation was passed? Maybe you were absent at the time. We have approved it in this House, Mr Coscubiela. And from there look at the tax collection figures in our country. And if you move on the pages of the document you will see the figures on tax fraud, but speak with ownership. There are 126 billion euros identified as values of goods and rights abroad that did not exist at the beginning of this legislature, 126 billion euros, belonging to more than 92,000 taxpayers that were not identified. Isn't that fighting fraud? Come and fight fraud. You use one topic over another and it's understandable, it's what happens when you don't have ideas, when you don't have concrete proposals for budget policy, tax, or work... You go for life as you go, as that left goes, but we are at the end of the legislature and I want to make it very clear to you, Mr Coscubiela. You're opposed to returning the pay to the officials, don't make me an ideological debate. Left Plural opposes, and point; let's see if we all understand each other at once clearly. Why? You said that you are opposed because this Government proposes it. All right. For it is this government that is proposing it with wisdom and sanctity when it makes the public services provided by the State in Spain, in all its administrations, financially viable. You're opposing this, Mr. Coscubiela, and don't put me in an 11-bar shirt because it's not worth it. I insist, read the document, all are figures and graphs, to the fine intelligence of your lordship you will not miss anything. But enough demagoguery, speak with property and speak with figures in your hand. I am sure that the rationality of the Spanish people as a whole and also the very important part of the society that you represent in this House will thank you, as I will also thank you. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u69	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to position-fixing. Firstly, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, every time you come up here to present an initiative such as this royal decree-law, I think you are committed to having this House wave at you. The wave will have it from your parliamentary group, which will be very enthusiastic about its actions, but we cannot wave to it the rest of the parliamentary groups, although I can obviously only speak for my own, the Galego Nationalist Block. Minister, do not vote in favour of the proposal that you bring us, does not mean that we are not in favour of the return to public workers of the extraordinary part of the pay provided for in the Royal Decree-Law. We do not agree on many other issues, we do not agree that you continue to use the Royal Decree-Law to take measures that do not show the need for urgency, not at the time when you make the Royal Decree, but because many of them logically it is that a serious Government already contemplated them for example at the time when the General Budgets of the State were made, in this case those corresponding to the year 2015. This is what is reflected in this royal decree relating to the measures envisaged for the Ministry of Agriculture or those of the Directorate-General for Roads. What do you say, Minister, about the 20 million of the Ministry of Defence? Once again, the Government demonstrates with this change of credit that it presents us with misleading budgets in different ministries, but in a special way in the Ministry of Defence, that they do not include foreseeable expenses, such as those in which the Government considers that these 20 million euros, such as the purchase of military vehicles, etc., must be invested. That is not a need that suddenly appears, but what you do is deceive us when you present the budgets of the Ministry of Defence. And what do you say, Minister, about those two measures that we could value as positive, such as the one related in the first place to the refund of 26% of the extra payment abolished in 2012? You say from this rostrum: it is that the People's Party government is going to return to public employees the pay that was withdrawn from them in 2012. But, Minister, that payment was also withdrawn by the People's Party Government, it is not that the People's Party Government is going to amend what another government did, no, it is that in any case it would amend itself. As we agree that this 26% of the extra payment is returned to them, we cannot agree that they do not take advantage of this royal decree-law to return the payment in its entirety. Moreover, we understand that what the Government should return, in addition to the payment, would be the corresponding interest. I would like to remind you that when we delay our payments to the public finances, social security and so on, we have to pay the corresponding interest. In this case the government should return the full payment - you say that the economy is going very well and come here to tell us in the exposition of this royal decree that it is a great achievement of your government to return this 26% - because we are talking about that it has been three years since it was eliminated. With regard to measures to improve the liquidity of municipalities, we do not discuss that it will be positive in the short term for some local authorities, but it does not change at all the budgetary asphyxiation of control and guardianship that local authorities are currently suffering after the various reforms of this Government. Therefore, by not being against some of the measures that you propose in the Royal Decree-Law, we cannot be in favour of everything that you propose here, among other things because we consider them insufficient in our favour. That is why we are announcing our abstention, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the same group, Mrs. Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party Government has approved a public debt credit supplement of more than EUR 250 million to return to the official the extra payment that was stolen from him - I repeat, that was stolen from him - exactly three years ago. Considerations in this regard. First, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they ask for a credit that will be paid with interest for the entire population, including, of course, the civil servant. Second consideration, with the money of everyone they fund an absolutely electoral measure. At the very least, Minister, they could have the detail or the decency to charge the interests of the debt to the election campaign expenses of the People's Party. And third consideration, they increase the debt to pay the extraordinary pay they abolished with the intention of reducing the debt three years ago. The sadly paradoxical thing is that today the debt is much greater than then. It is clear that Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya defends that civil servants should be charged the extraordinary pay that you stole from them three years ago, it is evident; in the same way that we consider that all the rights that have also been stolen from you in recent years to pay the debt generated by the Spanish Government must be returned to the working classes and to the popular classes. Because its neoliberal and wasteful policies have been precisely the major generators of debt. In fact, they are committed to blaming the population for having lived beyond their means, even though they are only responsible for 20% of the debt. Because the real culprits - we have said on several occasions - of the bulk of the debt are indeed you, with more than 30 million euros of military debt, the more than 30 billion electric debt, the more than 20 billion debt at high speed or the more than 4.5 billion that you will end up paying with interest for the failed Castor project of your friend Florentino Pérez. They deceive; lordships of the People's Party, they deceive. They deceive us when they try to make us believe that the Government is taking on the excesses of the population, it is exactly the opposite, it is the population that has been taking on the bill of some specific excesses: the excesses of the Government. But in spite of this, it turns out that, once the working classes have been squeezed - it can be said that, while the rich are becoming richer and richer - the debt is greater and is almost one hundred percent of the
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. We moved on to the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Mr. Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum on behalf of the Basque Group to speak about the validation of this royal decree-law that the Government is bringing us to this House today. Another royal decree, Mr Montoro, another lack of respect for this House and another abuse of the absolute majority to impose on others what your Government wants or what happens to your Government. The only good news, Minister, is that this will be the last royal decree-law of the legislature and, for the sake of parliamentary groups and politics, we hope that this custom will disappear the next legislature or at least be reduced to the minimum expression and the real decree-laws will be used when urgency really justifies it, not as in this case it is applied in a capricious way to approve many measures whose urgency is more than questionable. Or do you think, Minister, that the Ministry of Defence's mobile fleet could not be renewed next year, with the 2016 budget appropriations? I do not think that the obsolescence of vehicles and the mobile park has appeared overnight; obsolescence is obviously a matter of the passing of time and nothing would happen if these vehicles were renewed next year. Or are you afraid that the next government will not consider this a priority and will not approve it? Mr Montoro, in this royal decree-law they also cheat on urgent issues with others that are not and important issues with others whose interest is more than dubious. They collect the credits to pay a quarter of the pay that, by another royal decree-law, you took away from the officials in 2012. Our group believes it is a good thing that staff members, even if they are late, cover part of the payment that they were abolished when they were fully entitled to receive it. It will not be our group who is against it or who prevents public workers from recovering delays that should never have occurred. In the same way, we will also not oppose the recovery of part of the days of free disposal to which they were entitled and which were also usurped. However, like the subject of the mobile park mentioned above, we do not agree to cover them with our vote either the inefficiencies or the management deficits of your Government or the defaults and delays in previous years, such as roads, the general water management or the debts of hydrographic confederations. We cannot boast, as the Government has done, of being the fighters against lateness and having in the drawer the bills that they now intend to bring to light and pay, assuming greater indebtedness. Do you now accept, Mr. Montoro, your debt? Why? Why are they leaving? Or why does the legislature end? Or don't they want to leave bills in the drawer so they don't throw it in their face? On this basis, Mr Montoro, you could also have provided sufficient credit for other more urgent and priority items. Or to items which enable them to fulfil certain commitments, for example, adopted within the framework of the European Union and which do not yet have sufficient appropriations. On the other hand, they take advantage of the opportunity, or as the travel is commonly said, to change the Law on Public Sector Contracts and the Law on Universities. Does it have to be here and now? They realize that with the limitation of the replacement rates that have been applied over the past few years, real problems have been created in the operation, in this case, of the university and they want to fix it. Well, it suits us; the problems have to be fixed, but instead of having done so in the Budgets Act, which is where it belongs, they want to do so through this royal decree-law in a capricious and urgent way. That is why they argue that the academic year has begun as if this had always been taken into account. These issues can be resolved perfectly, Mr Montoro, from 1 January; but no, they prefer to use the barbecue and the absolute majority to do so via royal decree-law. We do not like, Mr Montoro, the royal decree-law, and we do not like it because they try to solve inefficiencies and errors in their political management, because there are matters that are not urgent and which you consider to be such and because the pay of public workers should never have been cut. However, it is this aspect, that of their partial return - 26%, the fourth part - that we consider positive together with the recovery of the day of free disposal. It is precisely because of this issue - and only because of this issue - that we are not going to oppose the validation of this royal decree-law in order not to give it, as you have said, Mr Montoro, arguments and to tell us that we are against civil servants, public workers recovering part of the pay. No, Mr. Montoro, we're in favour of them. I myself am an official, in surplus but an official, and I believe that the officials also deserve to recover as soon as possible these moneys that were taken from them in 2012. If we could only vote on this issue, we would certainly vote in favour, but if we could vote on the rest of the issues, we would clearly vote against this validation, Mr Montoro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u75	Thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. For the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy, Mr Calduch.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I must start by recalling the title of the Royal Decree-Law which is subject to validation: Extraordinary credits and credit supplements to the General Budgets of the State and public employment measures and stimulus to the economy. Indeed, a series of extraordinary credits or credit supplements are collected that when one examines them carefully they force him to have to differentiate. Our parliamentary group is obviously not going to oppose the return of part of the extra pay or part of the days which, for personal reasons or additional holidays, are covered by the Decree-Law, we have always been in favour of measures that would recover what was lost by the officials. Nor are we going to make the demagogic speech that because officials are not given the extraordinary pay by coup or are not given by a particular Government, we are not going to vote in favour. Not only that, we are also in favour of, for example, a dislate such as that of the sinking of the ship Oleg Naydenov and that costs us more than 31 million, is made up against the payment. We will criticize the wrong measure that was taken because it could have been another technically better measure, but, once adopted, who will pay if not, the Canary Islands? Much less we are going to oppose that if they actually have to receive armored military vehicles to improve the security of our troops the Ministry of Defence receives a credit supplement of 20 million or that the hydrographic confederations - which are contained in the royal decree-law - receive the necessary credits to improve the investments in infrastructure of the basins they manage. And so we could go on. [[The Lord]] There are a number of measures in the Royal Decree-Law that our parliamentary group recognizes that, even if it is on time - because they could have been included in the regular general budgets - it is within the foreseeable regulation that these budgets can be partially amended. Of course, we have not come here to debate other problems affecting Spanish society and the Spanish economy because we have had more than enough sessions, since the debate on the deficit ceiling going through the budgets, to discuss it. Minister, we believe that one mistake plus another error does not give a solution, but two errors. Or that a half truth and another half truth generate nothing more than the ceremony of confusion, which is what I personally perceived when I saw the rifirmrafe that you had with Mr. Coscubiela or Mr. Coscubiela with you - I don't know very well what the matter was. Our parliamentary group has consistently argued that there are certain measures that should have been taken and reflected in the Royal Decree-Law, and that is why we support them. Our parliamentary group tabled in May 2013 a non-law proposal against private late payment, in which it already called for recognition as one of the solvency criteria for public procurement to meet the payment deadlines that were recognized in the billing legislation. But, of course, we have to accept a series of credits for local entities with the argument that we have to pay for the invoices, without establishing any criteria as to which invoices correspond to the attention to public services and which invoices these public entities have allocated to various expenses and expenses, seems to us to be an excess, an excess that however receives coverage in this decree-law. If that were not enough, we would again use the mechanism of the Royal Decree-Law, which is dealt with urgently, precisely for matters that are not urgent at all. For example, we are not aware - at least we have not been told here by the Minister - that the SME Initiative 2014-2020 programme, for six years, has to be dealt with within the urgency that a decree-law requires. I will conclude by referring to that perverse practice that governments of one sign and another have used, all governments, which is to resort to the decree-law for matters that do not appear - at least not directly - in the enunciation of the decree-law. What do I mean? The second final provision, which amends nothing more and nothing less than an organic law, the Organic Law of Universities, and with regard specifically to the competition of access or contest of merits and the mobility of the teacher. I am an official on leave, in a special situation, but I am a university professor and I could have silenced what I am going to say, but I am not doing so because I am here in defence of the general interests of the citizens. Minister, if I had the time and desire, I could tell you exactly the names and surnames of who will benefit from that second final provision. Why would I say that? First, it only changes the competition for access of holders to university professors, and nothing says about contract doctors to university holders, but decapitalization at the university has occurred both from retired professors and from university professors. I'm a professor, and I could claim that they privilege my body. No, I think there's a bias there. And I add: since university competences are transferred to the autonomous communities, except for two universities, UNED and Menéndez Pelayo, and Menéndez Pelayo has no assistant professor, it is obvious that putting it in a real decree-law is to use a legal tool that should in principle be thought to be intended only for UNED, the National University of Distance Education. Yes, because for the other they did not need the decree-law, it can be done by the autonomous communities. How to apply the quota is collected, the replacement rate, depends on the autonomous communities, Minister, except that it also applies to modify the criteria of access by competition from holders to professors, which is what you do in this decree-law. What do you want me to say? It does not seem to me to be the most appropriate way to address this problem. The problem of decapitalization of the university, which has already been pointed out by some of my colleagues before, needs to be addressed in its entirety, because decapitalization takes place in all universities, depends directly on the ministry or the autonomous communities, and it is really a serious problem that costs the training of our students at the higher level. I'm done. We will support the validation of the Royal Decree-Law, not just because of the issue of officials but because there is another series of measures we share, but I could not let go of this opportunity to make it clear that our group does not share at all that it has been used for other purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Barberà.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presented with a new heterogeneous royal decree, with which you want to repair some decisions incorporated in previous royal decrees, especially the abolition of the 2012 extraordinary pay to public employees or the reduction of leave days. It welcomed this decision to rectify those measures. They can be corrected by the good results of the ambitious structural reforms promoted by the People's Party Government, and I quote the explanatory statement. We repeat it over and over again, although you do not seem to want to hear it, that macroeconomic aspects, together with aspects closer to the citizen, point to the existence of reasons for hope cannot be used as electoral propaganda. This royal decree is a clear example of the fact that acts and proclamations have already been initiated for the electoral campaign of this Government. Remember that we repeat to you over and over again that many families continue to suffer the consequences of unemployment, of the crisis, that these proclamations do not notice them in their homes, and it is very cruel to play with it and with them. The Minister speaks of ambitious structural reforms. All of them have taken advantage of the current crisis context to carry out a reform process with a clear refocusing approach. The reduction in spending on government programmes has been non-existent, and has not promoted clear and courageous measures focused on the efficiency of the state public sector. It is surprising that the Government has little ambition to reorganize and reduce the expenditure of its own public sector, that of the General Administration of the State. Hence our continued denunciation of the constant initiatives that have sought to regain the competence of the autonomous communities for the General Administration of the State. Since the beginning of the legislature, many savings and rationalization measures have been imposed on the rest of the administrations, in a very clear way on the autonomous and local authorities. They have been imposed a model of austerity that has completely limited their action towards the policies closest to the citizen, endangering the network that these administrations form for the continuity of the base that really sustains the welfare society. Minister, more simplicity and realism. This royal decree also modifies the LOU, the Organic Law of Universities. It brings new developments that improve important aspects for the tenured teachers as it incorporates internal promotion, a promotion that already exists in other equivalent areas of the Administration and that resolves the current situation of chaos that exists with regard to the access to professorship of those already properly accredited qualified professors who cannot promote. Clearly it is an opportunistic decision, although we share that it corrects aspects that have negatively influenced human resources management in universities with the reduction of the replacement rate. In this respect, we want to record a demand made by the Democratic Union since the beginning of this legislature regarding the limitations on the recruitment of research teaching staff that incorporates the same Organic Law of Universities. We have claimed the need to remove this restriction on the recruitment of labour and temporary labour. Catalonia needs to be able to choose a contractual model based on its own university policy and the needs and peculiarities of its university system. As for the coverage of 2014 obligations, I would like to highlight the concepts of payment of expropriations and interest of delay in the construction of road infrastructure, and I do so by denouncing how the People's Party has treated the citizens of my territory, of Tarragona, and especially those affected by the A-27, which passes through Valls; the delay in payment of expropriations has been and is insulting and unfair, of total defencelessness for most of them. I would like to conclude by highlighting the extraordinary credit for the Ministry of Defence, EUR 20 million for the purchase of vehicles. I recommend that you from the Ministry of Defence speak with Mr. Wert, the former Minister of Education. He had a similar problem with the scholarship system, when he was making the budget he never really knew how many students could access the scholarship and, therefore, new financial contributions were needed, as is the case constantly with the Ministry of Defence. The People's Party limited the amount allocated to scholarships, sought a variable formula to redistribute it, and the budget problem was over. Solved. However, the Ministry of Defence can again and again increase its expenditure through extraordinary appropriations. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be difficult to adjust the budget and not to have any surprises in defence, but not being able to do so with the scholarships says a lot - and rather badly - of the social and equity policies of the People's Party during this parliamentary term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Barberà. For the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, Mrs Sayós has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I must reiterate once again my strongest complaint regarding the legislative formula adopted to deal with these matters which are now subject to regulation, that is, to use the formula of the royal decree-law for its regulation is not to follow the spirit of article 86 of the Spanish Constitution. One day I hope that the Constitutional Court itself, which today is sadly famous, will review the matters regulated by royal decree-laws and annul all those that are not coming. Let's see if the government, and the state in the end, learns to do the duties well and abandons the legislative caps, because if they are not rigorous when they legislate, then they do not intend to give lessons to others. Before I go into this matter, I would like to say something to you, Minister. It has been very clear to me from the short time that I have been in this House that you are only dealing with the General Administration of the State and you are not even interested in whether or not this affects the other administrations. He has also made it clear to me that he has no idea of the functioning of the other administrations, or is not interested in them. I deduce this because when it legislates, for example, in this same royal decree-law, it is argued on the basis of article 149.1.18 (a) of the Constitution as regards State competence on the basis of the statutory regime of civil servants of public administrations, and this is for all public officials, but it is not the same for public sector officials and public sector officials, for example. If they wish to make unequal treatment, the State should delegate this competence to the relevant administration without further harm and it should be these administrations that regulate their public workers in a comprehensive manner. But, Minister, do not read it, that the public worker has suffered a great deal, as well as those who must apply it. On the subject, what has drawn me more attention to in this royal decree-law is that reference is made to the partial recovery of the December 2012 extraordinary pay of public sector personnel, that is, the entire extraordinary pay of a pen was removed from the disastrous, unfortunate and resorted to Royal Decree-law 20/2012; instead, public workers gradually recover what was unfairly removed from them by obligation also by the Government. In addition, it regulates in a complicated way what can be paid instead of simplifying the terms, which is nothing more than the payment of what was owed to them in December 2012, and is already there. And in addition, they do so in the middle of the election campaign. I would like to reproduce Article 1.3 here, because it has no waste. It says: Each public administration will pay the amounts provided for in this article within the financial year 2015, if it so agrees and if its financial-economic situation makes it possible; if it does not allow its financial-economic situation in 2015, the payment may be made in the first financial year in which that situation permits it. You're at ease, gentlemen of the government. But let's look at this section with the rest of the royal decree-law. Chapter II regulates extraordinary credits and credit supplements to cover, for example, the 20 million endowments to the Ministry of Defence for the purchase of trucks for the army or for the payment of local taxes on state-owned property for previous years, for a total of more than 13 million euros. It would be well, Minister, to pay these taxes; moreover, I suppose they will pay these taxes with the interest of delay that they correspond. But Chapter II also regulates how the State will deal with the payment for the recovery of the December 2012 extraordinary pay of State public sector staff, i.e. public workers of the General Administration of the State. It will do so by granting a credit supplement to the 2015 general budget. So far, more or less well. But when we come to article 9, with regard to the financing of these extraordinary credits and credit supplements, such as this, it turns out that the state can be financed with public debt by increasing the public deficit. That's what you say, Minister, I don't make it up. That is, while the State can cope with the payment of these extraordinary wages of its employees, it does not allow the other public administrations to do the same. The Government itself, which removed these payments from all public employees, is now unconcerned about the other administrations, the local and the autonomous ones, which are the ones that are really affected by the so-called sustainability measures and by the government deficit. Once again, this Government does not provide in this royal decree-law for financing mechanisms for other administrations to be able to cope with the payment of the extraordinary wages of their workers. Minister, I will not tell you a politically incorrect phrase out of respect, although I must warn you that unequal treatment causes discrimination among public workers, and this is not a receipt. In conclusion, and I conclude, Mr President, you have erred in approving the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 and you are wrong with the decree-law that we are debating today, not only because it contains indeterminate legal concepts that involve legal uncertainty, not only because the accounting application set out in Article 10 for the General Administration of the State is doubtful and that I do not have time to explain now, not only because I am not clear how to regulate local government officials with national clearance that have already carried two or three amendments since 2013, but because you have wanted to save your ballot before your public workers but have left hanging the other public administrations, which you have not given the opportunity to finance themselves in the same way as the State does, i.e. through public debt, to deal with the payment of the extraordinary 2012 payment of your public workers. That is why it is not a receipt, Minister. For all the above, Democratic Convergence is going to abstain, because this extraordinary pay must be returned to public workers, but not for everything else. I warn you that you play with the royal decrees-laws, you play with this House and that's how it's going to go. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Outós. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sumelzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Montoro, it is regrettable that, after four years of government, you have come to this rostrum to oppose the opposition. You yourself have disqualified your own governance. It is very worrying that a finance minister does not have his own arguments to defend what you have come to present to us today. You have rightly criticised the measures adopted by the former Socialist Government, but you have not been consistent with this because the actual decree you have submitted does not include them, and you could have done so. You have had four years of government to correct what we have done so wrong, and during those four years in which you have been ruling not only have done so wrong, but have done so worse: you have snatched the rights of public employees that today with this royal decree you are going to return again; part of them, not all of them. Let me tell you that you, with this royal decree, are doing bell politics. It's nothing coherent, he's doing one thing and saying the opposite. Today he has not come to defend the royal decree, what he has come to do is to campaign. Your Government is now subjecting Parliament to a validation of the umpteenth decree-law of this legislature, a legislature that will pass into history, Mr Montoro, such as that of the contempt of the Government and the People's Party for this Parliament. The People's Parliamentary Group has abused the status of the bill in order to be able to dispense with pre-conditional reports. This was recently the case with the amendment of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. They have applied the absolute majority roll to impose single readings on complex legislative initiatives, prevented the plenum of relevant projects from avocating, approved urgent procedures without further justification than the mere electoral calculation and, to top it all, more than a third of the laws have been carried out by decree-law of the Government. Quite a record, Mr Montoro, in our democracy. I do not know whether you - the Government - are aware of the damage you are doing to the division of powers, to the prestige of this Parliament and to the quality of our democracy. Mr Montoro, the decree-law that you have presented to us today is a new example of rectification, even if only to half, of your policies, and a new example of self-amendment to your measures. It's been many months, several months, correcting yourself. They have already done so with judicial fees, with health care for immigrants. At first they betrayed their program, their commitments to the citizens, and now they are betraying the speech they have repeated to us, with which they have bombed us mercilessly throughout the entire legislature. Where are the diatribes on which they considered it to be excessive public spending and which served as an excuse to harm millions of public employees? They're no longer worth it, are they, Mr. Montoro? Your corrections are already so obvious that they are even clumsy, and the imposture, Minister - please listen to me - has always had a price in politics. You were hypocritical in justifying in 2012 the abolition of extra pay and the reduction of public employees' permits for economic reasons and for improving human resources management; and you are hypocritical now in justifying your return for exactly the same reasons. Either you were wrong then or you are wrong now; or one thing or the other, Minister, but both at the same time, impossible. And if, as you say in this royal decree-law, the return of extra pay stimulates economic growth, what then happened in 2012, when you eliminated it in the middle of Christmas? Was it then that you did not want to stimulate economic growth? And if, as they now argue, the restitution of permits increases the effectiveness of public employment, why did they reduce them then? To increase inefficiency? Or are they recognizing with this royal decree that with its suppression the Government consciously adopted inefficient measures? We've wasted a lot of time, Mr. Montoro. By the way, in 2012, when you deleted the permits, you said it was to rationalize public spending, to save, right? And how much have you saved? In what concepts? Tell us, because they certainly haven't mentioned them anywhere. Either you are unscrupulous or simply when you were eliminated what you wanted to do was to punish public employees, who only drank coffee and read the newspaper, as your Secretary of State, Mr Beteta, said. Quite simply, Mr Montoro, impregnatable. Let's talk about the extra pay now. You took it from almost 3 million public employees in 2012. This resulted in a 7 % reduction in the average wage. And I say they took it because it was like that. They suppressed it; they did not suspend it, Mr. Montoro, as you now say. They suppressed it; this is what it puts in the BOE: suppress. And this measure was mandatory, of immediate mandatory application to all public administrations. I will repeat this: enforced compliance for all public administrations, regardless of their financial-economic situation. In fact, the Government did not take twenty-four hours to force all the autonomous communities to reduce the deficit ceiling by €4 billion; approximately, savings from the abolition of extra pay. What was immediate and mandatory then, has now become postponed and, moreover, voluntary. You have invented a new legal concept, a basic provision of power, to return part of the extra pay to public employees of the State, but not to public employees of other administrations. Why don't they do the same thing when they eliminated the extra pay? Mr Montoro, in the explanatory statement of that Royal Decree-Law of July 2012 you said, I quote, "Justice reasons justify that these measures be extended to all public servants, regardless of the nature of the entity on which they depend and their status. What happens, that it was fair to take back the salaries of public employees from all administrations and it is not now fair to give it back to them in the same way? Minister, you with one hand restore the pay you had taken from them and with the other you financially bind autonomous communions causing major grievances among public employees. I'll give you an example. I am an Aragonese and yesterday the Aragon Finance Councillor recognized serious financial difficulties because 160 million are missing for payrolls because the previous government of Aragon, of the People's Party, left these games unaccounted for. Three months ago, you left the government of Aragon with unchecked accounts, and today, the decree you bring us to this House will create a tremendous aggravation among the public employees living in Aragon. You have taken the extraordinary pay from 88,000 officials living in Aragon; 60,500 are going to have trouble recovering it; the 27,000 states are not. Do you not consider this to be an aggravation, an inequality? Explain to us how we're going to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the questions that the first opposition party is asking the government and that require an answer, and we do so on behalf of millions of public employees. I shall now conclude, Minister, the extraordinary and urgent need for this debate is that of the Government itself and that of the People's Party a few months before the elections. You started the legislature by attacking public services, insulting public employees, punishing them with cuts, and you are ending up causing inequality in the recovery of the extra pay. The Socialist Group will never oppose the restitution of an unjustly stolen right. That is why our vote will be affirmative. The public employees of this country do not deserve a government that plays with them; they deserve a government that returns quickly and fully to all the wages that were taken from them, without distinctions and without excuses, Mr Montoro. Your dignity and integrity are far above the arbitrary decisions of this Government, and you will be clearly told by the citizens in the ballot box. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Martín-Toledano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is bringing us today to validate a royal decree that highlights three things, in our view. First, that the economic recovery of our country is a fact and that such economic recovery makes it possible to adopt and take measures that could not be taken before, despite the fact that they were considered just by the Government. Secondly, this royal decree affects a number of groups in a very positive way: public employees, municipalities and we consider that also university research teachers. Thirdly, this Government, supported by the People's Group, is prepared to take all necessary and beneficial measures for society and for citizens, regardless of the time remaining in the legislature, because we have been told here for a year now that as the elections are near, we cannot take any action. [[Rumors]] Does the legislature last three years? [[Applauds]] No, the legislatures last four years. Listening to the different groups and their different positions, I have not heard a single objective reason of weight to oppose this royal decree, and less that of The Plural Left to vote against. Mildly the matter of military spending, but out of that nothing at all. Everything out of the subjects reflected in this royal decree, which, by the way, has favourable reports from the Council of State. Furthermore, I would like to say, Mr Coscubala, that you are particularly excited today - you have gone up to this rostrum several times and all you have done is systematically disrespect the People's Group and the Government - is that here you can say many things and reason many arguments, but to go up and miss and insult seems to me to be a total loss of roles. [[Applauds]] I don't know if you will be radical or extreme left, I don't know, but of course today, to my mind, your behavior has left much to be desired. I also want to tell you that I do not know how anyone can oppose the return, when possible, of the rights of public employees, because between this royal decree, the 2015 budget and the 2016 budget will be returned in full the extra Christmas pay and the rights to days of free disposal and holidays by old age. What a difference, gentlemen of the PSOE, with the Royal Decree 8/2010 of 20 May! Do you remember? It was also a real decree that you supported and by which the average wage of public workers was reduced by 5%, with a CPI of 3% per year in that exercise, and you do not want to ask for forgiveness from public employees, because that has been a permanent and permanent injury. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] President Rajoy promised to return the efforts of public workers, and today we are fulfilling that commitment because there is an economic improvement that allows it. Here we are not going to approve economic spending measures without having money to pay them; that is left to you, who approve things and have no money to pay them. Here you approve of things that are positive, but you pay. [[Greetings.-Mrs. Romero Rodriguez: Very well!]] By the way, they say that this government has been unfair to public employees. I have told you many times, and I say it again: and what happens in Andalusia with the autonomic supplements of the 2013 and 2014 extra pay? They were not forced to remove them; it was a decision of their own by a government of the Socialist Party and the United Left. I don't know if Citizens are going to ask the PSOE to return those supplements now. But, in addition, this also happened in Catalonia, where the autonomic supplements were removed from the extra pay. I have not heard anyone from Esquerra, Union or Convergence complain about their own government and the decisions they made. Ladies and gentlemen, you can return them too; it's all right. [[Applauds.-A lady MP: Good, good!]] Copy the People's Party and return the rights that have suppressed its public employees in the autonomous communities of Catalonia and Andalusia. Going up here to give lessons on who is best for officials, I think it is an inappropriate attitude because, again I insist, the People's Party government and President Rajoy committed themselves to returning efforts, and the efforts that were requested by the Socialist Party in 2010 do not have a possible recovery, they do not have it, and you also knew that they were done permanently and definitively. So those who are a danger, a real danger to public employees are the Socialist Party, its radical support - or whatever - of the United Left in Andalusia, Democratic Convergence in Catalonia and its partner Esquerra, because they take away their extra pay, take it away and also blame others. [[Applauds]] Comply, they have the power to make autonomous complements, as they also have the power to pay for these complements. Moreover, this royal decree is also very positive for the municipalities. Spanish municipalities were in a very bad situation in 2011-2012. This is not Plan E, with which 15 billion euros were thrown into the trash; no, no, this is not Plan E, with which public money was squandered. This has been measures to support liquidity, payment to suppliers, to have the autonomous communities pay the agreements to the municipalities, which did not pay them - and in Castilla-La Mancha we know - and are now bound by law. I hope you don't go back to the way you don't pay for the agreements. A social FLA had to be made for the autonomous communities to pay the municipalities for the services they provided to the citizens. And, by the way, with the local reform it was said that the municipalities were going to close, that they were not going to give social benefits, that they were not going to be able to do anything, that's what you said. For it is in force and the municipalities continue to provide social services, continue to work and none of those disasters that you have announced have happened. This royal decree is also very positive for universities. This has been said by the board of directors, who congratulated the Government on this royal decree. My colleague Maria Jesús Moro, who has taken this topic especially, knows that university professors and researchers are acquiring a right that they did not have before, that was the professional career, that regenerating the university, that among people of lower age, that cover the places, it captures talent and also funding. Finally, I want to say that I am of course very proud to belong to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I am very proud of my colleagues, very proud of the Government of Spain, who has brought this country out of the absolute ruin that was found when the socialists came to power and ran out, calling an election at the risk of being able to intervene, and of course I am also very proud of the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Martin-Toledano. AMENDMENTS TO THE SENATE : [[CONTINUATION]] - DRAFT LAW ON REFORM OF LAW 1/2000, OF 7 ENERO, OF CIVIL JUDGMENT. [[File number 121/000133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u86	Amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill to amend the Civil Prosecution Act 1/2000 of 7 January. Do you want to speak for the Basque Group? [[PNV]] [[Denial]] Thank you. Mrs Díez has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u87	Thank you, President. Briefly, because the passage of this law through the Senate is unfortunately a step as usual, that is, no substantial amendment has been made. The amendments that have been introduced in the Senate are all amendments called technical or drafting. The law was bad when it was and it's bad when it comes back. The reflection I want to make in the House is not only about the content of the law, but about what happens to the Senate. Now that there is an open debate in Spain or that some want to open about the future of the Senate and are putting it in terms of where we are taking it, I say that if this is what the Senate is for, what needs to be done is to bring it to a close. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubaila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have amendments from the Senate that improve the technical drafting of this law. That under normal conditions should be regarded as good news, and it is, it is always good, because that is what the parliamentary double-reading procedure is for. But in this case, I think it makes one thing clear that it would be good for this House, even at the end of the legislature, to have very much in mind, and it is the poor legislative technique with which the government sends the bills, this legislative hyperactivity, that legislative fury that has had such counterproductive effects as, for example, having had up to seven different texts from the Competition Act during a legislature. One cannot lose sight of the fact that the laws are inert beings, but very sensitive, which require a certain calm, especially at the time of their elaboration, as well as knowledge and a certain affection for the law. I'm afraid there's also some other problem. In this House there are good specialists in civil procedural law, without going further in the People's Group itself, and at times I have the impression that something is going on which even the Government and the People's Group itself do not take into account these capacities and by some circumstances that I am missing it turns out that they end up leaving the draft laws in the hands of that kind of plague in which some advisers have been turned into Aranzadi brigades, which seem to proliferate in all governments but which in this one have become a real plague, and less so that the lawyers and the services of the House make real efforts to discover barbarities such as some of those that have appeared in the handling of this draft law, texts that arrive in the Senate in which, at best, the same article has two different writings, and it has not happened once, but two. The result is usually what we have, unfortunately, very commonly, laws with very poor legislative techniques. And if that is serious in the area of substantive law, much more so when it comes to the procedural sphere, to the point, I insist, that we have had to address the fact that texts arrive from the Senate to this House in which on two different issues two different wordings appear from the same article. That certainly has an explanation for that poor legislative technique and the way in which laws are being drafted in this country. Then we will see how legal operators and the courts will tell how this law may have such a despicable legal technique. Well, here's the source of some of the things. Referring to those improvements, I would like to stress that it is common sense to extend the three to five days for written replies from legal persons. There are minimum deadlines in which the answer requires a certain calm, and having expanded makes sense. There are others that also have logic, such as considering that the subjection to arbitration does not have the same level as the subjection to mediation, among other things because the arbitration by definition excludes the continuation of the judicial procedure itself - what is incredible is that the text would reach the Senate itself - for example, those issues that establish that the person concerned should be required to appear for notifications, when the law itself states that such notifications will be established by telematic means, it is a bit absurd, and that is something else that the Senate resolves. It is an old age that remained in our law of civil prosecution that disappears and that, if it could be moved to the realm of public administrations, it would perhaps help us to improve its functioning, because, no doubt, at the moment there is a certain disregard for the citizen and especially for the use of his time in the administration of justice, which at the moment is key to the lives of many people, and it also often has very negative impacts in terms of competitiveness because having to travel for a notification that can be made by telematic means is not only an inconvenience for people, but it ends up being a problem without a doubt for the professional environment of the companies for which they work. I take this opportunity to say that if any government ever considered such an unattractive measure from the perspective of the political market but at the same time so useful from the perspective of the democratic quality and the functioning of the administration as a whole as it was to cancel all the obligations to appear in any scenario because everything could be done by telematics, by means of networks, this country could possibly enter definitively into the era of modernity and, above all, it would improve greatly in economic and human terms. And if I may say that it is in aspects like this when one realizes that at times those who draft the laws do not usually have the same domestic and human problems as the rest of their fellow citizens, because otherwise, there are things that would have them very present. I would like to pay particular attention to one of the important amendments which I also think is positive, such as the one concerning so-called unfair clauses and the fact that it is possible for the courts to agree to their consideration on their own initiative. Thankfully, it's never too late if the bliss is good. Let me remind the People's Group that the approach that abusive clauses could be considered ex officio by the courts is an issue that has been raised in relation to evictions not only by many courts but by groups in this House. If we were heard in time, we could sometimes avoid suffering many people. How much suffering could have been avoided if at the beginning of this parliamentary term we had heard social organizations, the courts and some groups in this House when we raised the issue of the abusive clauses that exist in some contracts, those accession contracts that usually make companies that have a position of domination, of total and absolute domination with the users. Unfortunately, that was not the case, and that suffering that we could have avoided has not been avoided by that deafness of the Government and the People's Group. Welcome is that reform which also comes to solve an issue which had even been the subject of some eardropping by the European Union itself. Finally, I would like to insist on a very important issue. Our group has been reiterating for a long time - and I take advantage of the fact that the Minister of Justice is here, whom we thank for his presence, so that he can listen to some things - that the improvement of procedural laws is important for the functioning, such as that of the judiciary. You will agree that the laws require time, calm, calm, tranquillity, just everything that has not happened in this legislature. As I have had the opportunity to talk with some of you in the privacy, which Mr Aznar would say - and in Catalan - I know what you think, but unfortunately what some of you think is not what the Group of the European People's Party Government has done. What has happened in this legislature with the laws in the field of justice is a real disaster. The laws, even the good ones, when handled, end up being a real disaster because no one knows even those that apply. I come from the field of work and can assure you that there is no legal operator in the field of work who currently knows what is in force and what is not in force. It is a good thing that telematics and networks allow legislation to be somewhat harmonised. That's very good; dealing with procedural laws is important but let's not be fooled, the improvement of the functioning of justice will come by that improvement of procedural laws but also by providing the Administration of Justice with sufficient resources to ensure that procedural laws are not a wet paper. Here are some important reforms that have been incorporated - I do not say no - but that can then be left on wet paper because they cannot be implemented, because the reality of the judicial offices does not allow them to start them. In that regard, one might wonder why political elites have historically given so little priority to public investment in justice in the past forty years. I have a double hypothesis, but first I want to ask you a reflection. It is not possible that a country that has been able to set in motion some of the best and most efficient administrations in Europe - recognised by the whole world - such as the General Treasury of Social Security, the INSS, in general the Social Security Administration or the Tax Agency itself - I am not talking now about the political but management aspect - has been profoundly incapable of significantly improving the functioning of the public service of justice. Important things have been done, but not all of them. I put two hypotheses to you, although one of them is the most important. I think the reason is very obvious, the political elites take very much into account the interests of the economic elites and the powerful and - let us not forget - at the moment the economic powers need less and less justice to assert their interests; therefore, justice does not interest them. Justice is what those in position need, not of domination but of inferiority in societies to assert their rights. And that is why the functioning of justice has not been a priority. This reality can be aggravated if progress is made in the proposal of the evil so-called Free Trade Treaty, TTIP, in which the major commercial conflicts of the large multinationals will be able to be clarified through private arbitration mechanisms in which the large corporations will be able to influence, in terms of their position and form of settlement, and they will be able to submit democratic States. I do not say this, it was denounced yesterday by the President of Uruguay, Mr Tabaré, at the headquarters of the United Nations at his annual conference when he denounced the situation he is suffering at the moment, as a result of the pressure of the smokers and, in particular, of Philip Morris on the State of Uruguay and the shame that the State of Uruguay must submit its sovereignty to the decision of arbitration mechanisms for the benefit of Philip Morris. By the way, all those who discuss national sovereignty, present and future, would do well to place that debate in those terms of the twenty-first century. I end with a reference, not to the Minister of Justice - who is left with only a few newspapers - but in general to the House and the country. Soon, I hope that the next parliamentary term - I will not see it because this is one of my last speeches in the House - will truly be, among other things, the legislature of justice. Let me tell the People's Party and the Minister of Justice that if the Ministers of Justice of this Government had devoted the same effort to improving justice that they have devoted to imposing their ideological views on us and the interests of certain lobbyists, it might have been possible to make further progress in the public service of justice. The truth is that what you have not done I hope the citizens will do with their vote; if you do not attend to reasons I hope you will attend to the verdict of the ballot box soon enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, Mrs Surroca has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Quickly, from the seat. We, at the outset, have made a positive assessment of this bill because we share the overall objective of modernising and expediting the administration of justice, so no amendment has been tabled to the whole. Nevertheless, we are presenting a set of amendments to improve the whole project. We recognize that part of our amendments have been incorporated throughout the parliamentary process and we appreciate that. However, a number of amendments have been tabled by the People's Party, which have to do with free legal aid, which has already been criticized by our group. We reiterate this at this time and for this reason we have not supported this project. We must also remember that the Generalitat de Catalunya has competence in the field of the administration of justice, and in this respect it has made a decisive commitment to modernising justice. Proof of this is, for example, the implementation of the electronic judicial file in which Catalonia has gone ahead and has been a pioneer. That is why we have been putting forward a number of amendments which have to do with the development of this aspect and especially with respect for the powers of the Generalitat de Catalunya. A series of amendments were tabled in the Senate that were not accepted or negotiated. We insist on the amendment of Article 23 in order to include clearly that prosecutors have to be awarded university degrees in law, this was an important aspect that we have defended. In addition, we called for the suspension of paragraph 36 bis because the text submitted by Congress envisaged two possibilities of drafting article 27. In short, there are a number of amendments tabled which have not been incorporated in the course of parliamentary procedure. We can share that goal, and we would have liked to support this project, but there are many obstacles left along the path that we understand could have been improved through the transaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. Mrs Ciuro has the floor for the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the rostrum also to defend the action of Democratic Convergence in the processing of this law, and by taking up Mrs Surroca's words, it is true that we share the need for modernising justice in the area of new technologies. It is true that the Generalitat of Catalonia has been a pioneer because we have competence in the field of justice and we are making a big bet to implement the electronic judicial file, what happens is that this amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act is fully - and once again - interfering in the exercise of this competence. You know that we are submitting an amendment calling for us to be allowed as an autonomous community and competent administration the regulatory regulation of the situations in which the use of electronic means in notifications - citations, sites or requirements - will or will not be mandatory, depending on the degree of implementation of information technologies in the respective territorial area. This amendment has been rejected and, frankly, we believe that this will stifle the effectiveness of the implementation of electronic means because if those who know firsthand the state and level of digitisation do not have the power to decide the level of intervention by means of telematic means, who can determine it? Therefore, this implementation has not been operational. We have had no answer in this area and we regret that the exercise of jurisdiction in this case in the field of justice is once again being laundered. We have also made amendments to a number of actions in defence of the actions of prosecutors. They are necessary collaborators of justice and from our group we defend the need for the prosecutor to be able to carry out acts of communication. Well, on the basis of what is already laid down in the White Paper on Justice, we would have liked our amendments to be accepted which would enable prosecutors to carry out the implementing acts. It is an area where prosecutors could carry out much of their activity and would certainly help to speed up justice. I reiterate that its function is necessary and therefore we had walked in that direction. Minister, we regret that all the modernisation of justice is accompanied by a consideration that this entails zero costs. This, frankly, we see it difficult to implement. We see that the materialization of the bills if it is not assumed beforehand that the Justice Administration has to be more and better endowed with resources, we will hardly be able to achieve their perfect implementation. The law will therefore be caught in this area. At the level of free justice, it has also been mentioned here before, through the back door they have intended to resurrect the bill of free justice. We regret some trile use of the way in which we legislated, because although the reform of this important law had been parked in a drawer, through amendments they have made an impact on the development of free justice and this has again prompted the response of the whole sector. We regret that this approach has been used, not that of consensus, which should have been implemented in order to advance the exercise of effective judicial protection by those most vulnerable in our society. This obliges us to make a criticism of this law and not to be able to give it our support, but we claim that our amendment 191 has been accepted, which allows the heirs of the lawyers to claim payment of the fees that would have been due in the event of the death of the creditor holder. In this regard, we are pleased that it was something that had to be resolved. Convergence wants to express that it has been too hasty processing. We regret that the Senate procedure has not been used to introduce greater guarantees and this trilateral reform of the Free Legal Assistance Act. It's a shame, Minister. He had acted well by parking it in the drawer, but resurrecting it through amendments seemed to us to subtract the necessary debate in this area. We therefore close the process of amending the LEC with the accent that has marked the legislature, which is nothing other than the lack of consensus and the abusive use of its absolute majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Mrs Ramon has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Again this bill comes to Congress, now to put to the vote the amendments that your group has adopted in the Senate, almost alone, because they are alone in front of the world until the end. It is a reform that they have undertaken, as they always do, in a totally unilateral, hasty and running manner, when only a few days are left to finish this parliamentary term. Now they want to quickly amend a century-old law, an unnecessary reform that does not meet the goal of improving a public service such as justice and keeping it exclusively in public hands. [[The Lord]] It does not respond to an urgent demand from society, Minister, but to the government's need to facilitate the privatization of basic aspects of civil procedure. What they intend to do is to commercialize Spanish justice; that is what they have been doing during these years of government. You have a real obsession to privatise, to go back to old times. Once again, the Government, supported by the absolute majority, imposes on the House for its adoption a bill that, like all its actions in the field of justice, goes either through concessions to certain corporations or through its desire for privatization. They intend to impose a two-speed justice system: one for those who can pay for it and another for the rest, one for the rich and one for others. Now, through the transfer to the prosecutors, they proclaim their status as co-operators of the Administration of Justice, but what they do is, on the one hand, increase the number of procedures or procedures in which the figure of the prosecutor is mandatory, and on the other, to carry out a privatization of basic aspects of the civil procedure and of the guarantees inherent in the costs of communication and assistance, while at the same time weakening any consideration of the prosecutors as co-operators of the Administration of Justice, since they eliminate the possibility that the prosecutors have to carry out acts of communication or cooperation when required by the judicial secretary. In the end the prosecutor ceases to be a collaborator of the court if the secretary cannot impose on him the task. The sole purpose is, therefore, to privatize, privatize without controls a basic part of the functioning of civil justice. Another joint note of the reforms it brings to the House is the return to the past. This is the case with the proposal for a reform of the oral procedure. Its regulation in the Criminal Procedure Act 2000 enshrined constitutional principles in the civil procedure, such as the procedural economy, orality, proximity and concentration; principles to which this reform renounces. In the process of amendments to the Congress, the People's Group tabled forty-four amendments which, on the one hand, sought to make technical corrections to improve a deplorable draft, and which actually entailed an amendment to the full content of the bill. I have already said this in the Committee on Justice and I will repeat it: this constitutes a very clear fraud of law in that it involves the removal of the mandatory reports that must be processed in the adoption of the draft laws, as stipulated in article 22 of the Government's Law 50/1997 of 27 November 1997 and article 561 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary. They also prevent parliamentarians from fully exercising our rights, as soon as we cannot amend those proposals, which also entail complete reforms of laws that are under way, such as the Law on Free Legal Assistance, unilaterally and without withdrawing that draft in progress. They also amend many other laws that are in force. And what is even more relevant is that they do so on a non-existent or false motivation in the amendments, as they speak of technical improvements and on many occasions the precepts are neither improvements nor technical. In the Senate you present twenty-four other amendments which continue to amend other existing laws; laws which, I insist, you yourself are sometimes dealing with, but which you are amending in this way. You have charged yourselves with the principle of legal certainty. Our group tabled 59 amendments in the Senate. We do not accept any amendments in either House. We're probably all wrong, except you. To all this must be combined the null and void modernizing action of the Ministry of Justice in this legislature, which intends to circumvent by imposing on all judicial and judicial professionals the obligation of the use of telematic means from 1 January 2016, as if that were so easy: you pick it up in a law and, finally, the miracle is performed. Another key element in defence of the spurious interests of this reform is the new legal regime for the extinguishing of civil obligations contained in the Civil Code, which had remained unchanged from its promulgation to the present time. The Government has decided to end the more than one hundred and twenty years of immunity from these precepts without any explanation; this in itself makes it unacceptable since they do not provide any justification for the urgency of this legislative amendment. The reform proposal is a frontal attack on the disruptive effectiveness of the creditor's out-of-court claims, which, in my opinion and that of my group, is another major feature of the proposal. It ends with a pen - without any justification in the law or in the reports - with the possibility that the creditor will keep his right alive through successive extrajudicial acts of debt claim, recovering with each of them a new full term of limitation. Even without expressly stating it in fact, what they eliminate altogether is the typically disruptive effect of the extrajudicial claim, because the creditor who uses it will not have a new five-year period to exercise its right, and - more curiously - it also leaves a lot of doubts in the air, such as, for example, whether the creditor's invitation to the debtor to mediate will be considered an extrajudicial claim. What about arbitration, what treatment does it deserve? Will there be suspension of the prescription in such cases or do we talk about interruption or accumulate both effects? No less nonsense is the fifth transitional provision, which regulates an allegedly transitional regime for the limitation of actions born before the reforms, which in fact is not such, because it refers to article 1939 of the Civil Code, a precept that literally refers to the limitation begun before the publication of the code, in order to achieve a certain effect of retroactivity improper of the normative change. That is to say, the new time limit for completing the statute of limitations applies also to the one already initiated, but not yet completed, before the entry into force of the legal reform by cutting to five years, counted from the day on which the new law is applied, the time limits that the creditor may have previously. Faced with this, the Socialist Group's proposals have sought to prevent the privatization of essential elements of civil proceedings and the reform of the oral trial, which is completely disrupted by this reform, under a bochronous pretext for justifying the change in an alleged strengthening of effective judicial protection. We recall that the explanatory statement of the Civil Prosecution Act of 2000 made clear the values that he wanted to impose, and thus stated that the law designs the declaratory processes, so that immediacy, publicity and orality must be effective, in verbal trials because of the significance of the hearing, and in the ordinary because, upon request and reply, the most outstanding procedural milestones are the pre-trial hearing and the trial itself, both with the inexcusable presence of the judge. Well, the proposal is radically contrary. You are going to turn the verbal trial into a written procedure, you are going to get the principles of immediacy, orality and publicity that for the verbal trials recognized the law of the year 2000. To all this is added what the General Council of the Judiciary rightly states, and it is that this measure will also lead to a clear delay in the trial. Finally, I wonder if you really believe that this reform is necessary, if you really believe that you are going to improve the civil process. I believe that you do not believe it yourself, and I also believe that we should also ask ourselves whether it violates the Constitution itself. Surely it does, because it violates the rights of equality, non-discrimination and effective judicial protection that our Constitution protects. That is why we reject this reform, because it is unnecessary, because it does not meet any requirements of Spanish society, of legal professionals or of the plaintiffs of justice, only privatized fundamental aspects of civil procedure. What they are going to achieve is that our justice is slower, more ineffective, more insecure, and ultimately more unjust. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ramon. Mrs López González has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all I would like to welcome the deans of prosecutors who are following this debate from the rostrum. No effort is left when it comes to Spain and the Spanish. Since the beginning of this legislature, the Government has worked hard and hard to improve the agility, quality, efficiency of justice and its vocation to serve society, and the People's Parliamentary Group, which supports this Government, has been actively involved in this ambitious plan of legislative reforms; only in the last eleven months have 14 bills been processed, and in these sessions we have already adopted the last ones. This is the only way to strengthen the rule of law, increase legal certainty and strengthen our competitiveness as a country. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that for two years we have been increasing the budget and placing justice as one of the main priorities? That's right. The budget of the Ministry of Justice increased in 2015, and will increase again by 7.2% in 2016. In addition, investments will increase in the coming year, no less than 26% more than for this course, especially for the technological modernisation of the justice system. With more and better laws, more means, and more technological endowments, we will make it possible for all of us to have justice more agile and faster, because, as Seneca said, nothing resembles injustice with late justice. And precisely the reform of the Civil Prosecution Act 1/2000 of 7 January, which we are debating today, and which is still in time to support all groups, will contribute to the modernization of justice, which is not merely a declaration of intent, because there are very real objectives and detailed planning. I turn to the specific aspects of the reform. The first and most important is precisely the promotion of new technologies. How do we get a more agile and modern justice? Accelerating, among other things, the use of new technologies and telematics. We must adapt to the new demands. Modernisation is a process and it has no backsliding. At first there are resistances and difficulties, because it is a real revolution. For example, after the dye and the pen came a huge change, at the beginning of the 20th century, with the typewriter, and there have been mechanical, electrical and electronic ones - there are still some in the courts -. Now it's about making the paper disappear and moving on to the electronic file, another great revolution. If that typewriter contributed to improving and modernizing us, the current technological leap is infinitely greater, and consequently the benefits as well. We can't stay behind. We are in the twenty-first century and we need justice from the twenty-first century. January 1, 2016 will be a reality: the courts will work exclusively through electronic means. The paperless justice is one of the objectives, and this is possible, and it is especially up to the prosecutors of the courts, a figure perhaps unknown, but indispensable. They are the ones who really know the process and assume its management. In this section I would also like to mention the use of that secure exchange platform, which is LexNET. In the face of skeptics, the General Council of Prosecutors of Spain offers us the following data. If in 2004 they processed 35,664 notifications with LexNET, in 2010 there were already 11,300,000 and in 2014 - last updated data - four times more, in particular 46,293,000. And it is that prosecutors are the best allies for the modernization of justice. These data show that the Administration of Justice is sufficiently qualified to comply with this obligation to use telematics systems since 1 January 2016. A second aspect of the reform: greater involvement of prosecutors within the administration of justice. It is desirable that the prosecutor may also take on other tasks of cooperation with the courts and lawyers, in particular in the context of the acts of communication, in the procedural stages of proof and execution, and in the systems of forcible sale of goods under the terms and with the limitations laid down. That is not what we say, this is an orientation of the White Paper on Justice, drawn up by the General Council of the Judiciary, which highlighted it. Revolution therefore in the judicial system, continued with the change undertaken by the Government since 2011, and with that consideration that the council gave us in 1998. Be bothered to read and understand that book, and if you have read it again with the intention of discovering what is stated there. This is not about privatizing justice. It's not. What do we achieve by assigning new functions to prosecutors? That auxiliaries or secretaries can devote more time to other tasks, and therefore it can be said that resources are increased in the field of justice, the options of the justiciable are improved, and in their area of will there remains the decision whether to take advantage of the system designed, without, ladies and gentlemen, implying a two-speed justice or privatization by the Administration of Justice with the acts of communication. The other three pillars of the reform of the Civil Prosecution Act are the improvement of the verbal judgment, a greater defence of consumers against unfair clauses, not to mention changes in free legal aid. The verbal trial reforms. After fifteen years of practical implementation of the Civil Prosecution Act, the different legal operators asked us for a change in the regulation of the verbal trial, in order precisely to strengthen the effective judicial guardianship. What is the purpose? The aim is nothing other than to avoid the defencelessness of the parties, allowing them to act with equal arms and be able to go to trial with the necessary means of proof, without delay in their processing. The written reply to the application is introduced to give greater certainty to the proceedings, and the summons of unnecessary witnesses will also be avoided if the expert judicial evidence is made viable without the need to suspend the hearing, as is currently the case. It is precisely the opposite of what some of the groups have wanted to see; for example, they have not understood that when the parties request that they have not seen and the judge considers it appropriate, rather than harming the citizen, what it does is to offer him more advantages, such as the reduction of the time of judicial response or the saving of the costs of the procedure. The last aspect is the change in the control of unfair clauses in the monitoring procedure. This control is improved by allowing the judge to assess whether there are such clauses, and therefore there is an improvement in the defence of consumers and users. Finally, changes in free legal aid. These are improvements, ladies and gentlemen, which extend the subjective scope of the law, since new subjects can access it, and the objective scope, since new situations are likely to have recognized this right. Among the new subjects who can access free legal aid, I would like to highlight the associations of victims of terrorism and large families, who have that status because of the special circumstances of their members and not because of the number of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the passage of this law through the Senate has greatly improved its content. In particular, twenty-three articles, one additional provision, two transitional provisions and three final articles have been amended in the Upper House. By highlighting one of the amendments included in the draft, I will mention the one made to article 14, paragraph 2, by which the time allowed to the defendant to respond to the claim is not suspended by the decision of the court secretary, but by the submission of the application, and the other is the possibility that the descendants of lawyers may claim the fees that would not have been met. During the parliamentary process of this law we have had to listen unfortunately to many barbarities such as, for example, that prosecutors are enemies of the Administration of Justice or that justice will be privatized with this reform, or even here two bills have been mixed, the Criminal Prosecution Act and the Civil Prosecution Act. However, this is a law, Mrs Ramon - and I come back to the beginning - which is essential to give greater agility and quality to our justice; a law that is the fruit of the work and effort of many people, of encounters with different collectives, with all legal operators. We have never wanted this law to be the law of the People's Party, but the law of all, because the prevailing spirit has been that of negotiation. We are therefore grateful for all the contributions of all the speakers from the various parliamentary groups. And I do not want to finish my speech without showing my thanks to my two fellow rapporteurs, Mr Molinero Hoyos and Mr Martín-Toledano, for the magnificent work done, for their professionalism and good doing; to the lawyers of the House, for their technical remarks, and to the minister here today and to his team, whom I also see in the rostrum. He sees justice as a matter of state, and that has resulted in legislative and structural reforms undertaken based on the adaptation of new technologies, process improvements and the increase of human and material resources. This will help the Justice Administration to stop being perceived by the citizen as that slow machine that Hamlet was already talking about in his monologue. Today we have taken one more step among all of us. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u98	Thank you, Mrs. López González. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u99	Thank you, President. I am speaking very briefly just to show the satisfaction of the Government with the finalization of this draft, which will be voted on today. I trust that it will be adopted, because ultimately, and beyond the comments and observations that your ladies and gentlemen have made throughout your speeches, highlighting what could have been done or some discrepancy about what this bill incorporates, it seems to me that an assessment of a reform that brings to civil justice the incorporation of new technologies, the better protection of consumers and the different parts of the process, as well as procedural agility, must in any case be taken as good news. Having developed this project from the professionals and with the professionals to take advantage of the capacities not only of the officials of the Administration of Justice, which of course constitute the fundamental element of public management, but also of the rest of the professionals of the world of law, such as prosecutors, lawyers and all those who collaborate every day in justice, is good news, and therefore will give us a better law of civil prosecution, which is part of the experience, part of the knowledge of the problems, and although probably much remains to be done, I am sure that in the next legislature a Government of the People's Party can certainly continue to improve the reform of justice, and there will be opportunities to further improve justice for citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u100	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u101	The next two items on the agenda will be discussed cumulatively, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen. They refer to the Senate's amendments to the bill to amend the Criminal Prosecution Act to speed up criminal justice and strengthen procedural safeguards, and also to the draft organic law to amend the Criminal Prosecution Act to strengthen procedural safeguards and regulate technological research measures. Mr Olabarría has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to thank you, of course, for your presence. The White Paper for the Reform of Justice, drawn up by the General Council of the Judiciary, has been cited on a regular basis in the previous debate, and an invocation has been made for its reading. As the minister knows, there is no white paper, there are two prepared by the General Council of the Judiciary. Some of us have read it and even contributed to its drafting. I do not know if many more people have read it, because it was not edited more than the first edition and it was not re-edited; or there has been an intensive lending system among people who have something to do with the world of justice, in the most general sense of the term, or its reading has been rather scarce; and above all it has been scarce in relation to the requirements and material content of the law, whose last legislative procedure ends with this act. I am not going to quote Shakespeare or Hamlet; I am going to quote another author, Minister, Joël de Rosnay - and Don Cayo Lara also did yesterday -. Joël de Rosnay refers to what is called liquid policy, in terms of current political science, i.e. fluctuating policy, lack of solidity, lack of references, lack of relevant legal identification elements. What has been done in this law - if I may say so, and do not take it wrong, because you know that I have a great personal appreciation for you - is almost the paradigm of liquid policy, because some of the amendments that have been the subject of the intended compromise or consensus between the parliamentary groups are not such. First of all, by a tortuous and dubiously regulatory procedure, you have allowed yourselves the luxury of changing the structure of the criminal prosecution, nothing less, one of the most relevant aspects of the criminal process, by an amendment that - I would like the lawyers to listen to me - I do not know what regulatory nature it has, because it is a transaction with anyone in particular, with no specific group. I do not know whether there is in the Rules of Procedure the figure of the exegetical transaction, that is, that transaction linked to the intended will of the legislator reinterpreted by those who make and materially draft the transaction and incorporate it into the text of the rule we are debating. In this way, you have incorporated nothing less than a profound modification of the penal cassation, of the most relevant remedy and that exhausts all procedural bodies, Minister. I do not say that they have done so wrong, because what they have done in the end would coincide in good way with some of the historical pretensions of my parliamentary group, withholding for the Supreme Court and its Second Chamber the defence of the so-called jus constitutionis and reserving for the other courts the ordinary cassation, which seeks to guarantee the rights linked to what is technically called jus litigatoris. It is a recommendation of the two white books of the General Council of the Judiciary in the garment given to it, that I do not know if it has been read by many people, because it is a recommendation, but what is not a recommendation that allows for apologetic reflection by our parliamentary group is the procedure. Who did you fuck this with? That is, you have done a reinterpretation of what we all wanted to think, you have drafted a compromise amendment format, which would be fraudulent given your material formalization in the debate, and you have incorporated it into the bill. Minister, I am very sorry that this morning - because you are a fine lawyer and you are also a man who is very dependent on the dogmatic requirements of the legal system - you have not been in the debate on the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court and the invocations that have been made regarding respect for the law, legality, some practically tearing clothes, disfigured also legality, because here we talk a lot about state-ordering and little about state-community, and you know perfectly well what I am referring to. Some have made a kind of invocation of legality, preventing the exercise of fundamental rights which are even recognized in the Spanish legal system by the instruments of ratification of international treaties, such as those relating to the right of self-determination of 1966. This has gravitated, the first debate, about what happened with the so-called sovereignist process in Catalonia. But what legality are we talking about? If it is legislated as it is legislated, I will have to respect the legality, because if I do not risk that for a trial or for incurring a criminal injustice the Civil Guard, the National Police, the Ertzaintza or whoever it is and stop me, but only for this reason, for no intimate conviction that the legality that we are generating through the systematic violation of legislative procedures, as they are regulated, legitimizes us to defend. Why do we not talk about the formal legality, the regulatory legality, the legality of legislative procedures as set out in the regulations of the Chambers? We do not want this in any clear way in the law that the single reading procedure is to be adopted today in relation to the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, only to save the sovereignist process that is being created in Catalonia at this time and that allows the direct execution of the rulings of the Constitutional Court, as if before the law of the Constitutional Court, its organic law, did not allow it. I am not going to oppose or confront myself materially, nor am I going to make an invocation, as some group in Catalonia has done, to the legislative insurrection. It is not our style and I do not want to end up in prison, Minister, I honestly tell you, but of course, when it is legislated as it is legislated, we are talking about a purely watery, fluid legality, reiterating Joël de Rosnay's expressions. Read Joël de Rosnay's book on liquid policy, fluid policy and how to legislate also liquid or how to legislate fluid. Minister, you lacked the courage to make an entire criminal procedural code, or time - perhaps it is time - but when you first appeared in the Committee on Justice you committed yourself to drawing up an entire criminal procedural code. We already told him that it was a utopian pretension, which was part of an optimistic desideratum on his part. And he's done it partially and wrongly. Bad because he has lacked courage for some things, partly courage, because he has had courage for others. With regard, for example, to matters as susceptible in a political normalization process as that of the Basque Country, such as pre-trial detention and its duration, you continue to exceed the constitutional limit and maintain anti-terrorist legislation to which you attribute almost taumaturgical effects. You in your political speeches attribute to this anti-terrorist legislation and to the action of jurisdiction - also special or exceptional, such as that of the National Audience - and of the Security Forces and Corpses the victory against ETA. The assertion is questionable. It is questionable that ETA was defeated only by the application of exceptional legality, but when the State elaborates an exceptional legality that violates the constitutional limits that legitimize its own existence - I am referring to the limit of seventy-two hours provided for in article 17.2 of the Constitution regarding incommunicado detention and pre-trial detention - what happens simultaneously is that there are acts or cases of torture - I remind you that the Spanish State has been sentenced on five occasions by the European Court of Human Rights for not investigating cases of torture - there are, as various United Nations rapporteurs have denounced, areas of opacity where torture is possible and treaties are contradicted that already have instruments of ratification by the Spanish State, such as that of Istanbul in relation to the obstructive practices of torture in police units. It's not just that, it's not just the duration. I would like to acknowledge that you have been brave, you or anyone who has drafted this bill. It gives me the impression that it was not in his ministry. We have the impression that it has been in the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court where this bill has been drafted, but, as I have no evidence, I leave it here, with the value of pure intellectual speculation, but it sounds a lot like what various judges of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court claim, not only in the matter of cassation or the regulation of cassation. When things are achieved such as that judges control from the outset the preventive detention, incommunicado detention, the guarantee of incommunicado compensation, the visit twice every twenty-four hours of forensic doctors and an almost personal accountability of the judge who makes such orders of compensation and the avoidance of acts of torture, something is progressing, but something is not progressing as long as part of the anti-terrorist legislation that allows the constitutional periods or limits, which are seventy-two hours, to be ten days, assuming that both the day of detention and the day of judicial disposal or the day of release are discounted. I am running out of time and I am sorry because this is a debate that we should have held more carefully, more calmly and surely longer, but there have been various subjects that are at least controversial or dubious, such as the expiry of the dates of instruction or the deadlines for instruction - that is questionable -, six months or eighteen months in particularly complex cases. That by means of an unclosed and non-exhaustive list you establish the complex cases and in addition those decided by the judge - may be up to eighteen months - makes that expiry of the time limits of the summary investigation may cause a degradation of the summary investigation, which is quite degraded already. Why not take the courageous, courageous decision that is part of the acquis communautaire and of the acquis of the countries in our context that it is the prosecutor's office that assumes the summary investigation or the investigation of what we no longer know at this time if they are called investigated, prosecuted or imputed, because the name iuris attributed to the persons who are being investigated in the field prior to the indictment is particularly confusing? On the other hand, it is particularly serious - and I am now finishing, Mr President - that the prosecutor's office should have jurisdictional functions specific to judges, such as the decrees accepted by the parties in simple proceedings. Discuss whether the prosecutor's office - whose organizational unit is the Government's - should perform functions of this nature; discuss and consider it carefully. I think we should rethink - perhaps in the next legislature already because it is running out, fortunately - if this is relevant and plausible. The systems of connection and the need that you impose of the opening of a process for each case that is part of a complex network of crimes what you are going to do is to burden the investigating judges with more penance and more work and it is also contradictory with the judgment that you invoke as legitimizing the system of connection that is incorporated into this important bill, which is the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 1981. There are other subjects that we could continue to talk about,...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u103	Your Honor, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u104	... but, unfortunately, time has run out and, unfortunately, the most generous president in the Bureau of this House in the granting of time has also not been able to deprive himself of the need to correct a certain propensity that is not part of the anthropological myth of Basques to be parks in words and some more optimistic say that long ones in fact, and that I worry about spraying systematically, said which, Minister, here is a lot to debate. Perhaps the legislature that comes, with more time, with more positions linked to consensus and with less liquid policy and net legislation or legislative activity, we can achieve this. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Olabarría. I have the floor, Mrs Díez, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u106	Thank you, President. I'm going to give my colleague Emilio Olabarría a hand and between the two of us we're going to see if we're parks, that is, I'm going to be very park and, with what you've been through, we're doing a mean between Basques, a Basque and a Basque, and you keep saying that we're parks in words and lengths in deeds. Let's see, minister, the Spanish chorus has for everything and for these two laws that we're seeing it has many choruses, but I'm going to pick one of them, which would be that what bad starts badly ends. This started very badly, the processing of these two bills, their submission and commission processing, and after passing through the Senate ends badly, as was foreseeable on the other hand. You have there the same majority as here and use the same arts there in the Senate as those used here. The same arts are the art of the imposition in vows, which is democratic, of course, but of the non-consensus. Emilio Olabarría proposed the time requirement. He said that this is a very important debate and that we would have needed more time. It's true, but not today. We would have needed more time, calmer, quieter, more attempt at consensus, because consensus is sometimes not possible, but if it is not attempted it is impossible. We would have needed that in the previous proceedings and you didn't want it. I would like to remind you of those last meetings of the Committee on Justice at which we were getting compromises on the road, and we did not know the compromise proposal that we were being put on the table, because the Member of the People's Group himself did not know what he was going through, because he was offering us another compromise. This is a misconception. All this has been a misconception and a lack of respect for the Legislative Chamber and, therefore, a lack of respect for the proposed laws, an absolute lack of respect. It is a bill on which we disagree, which seems to us and seems to us to be a big deal - but that is questionable, because that is why politics is there, to confront different opinions - and it is an absolutely disrespectful procedure with Parliament, absolutely run over, absolutely unwilling to agree on good laws. This is not an opinion, it is a decision of your parliamentary group, of your Government, to do things this way. He called Mr. Olabarria his way of legislating, citing a wise man as fluid. It's a way of saying it, okay, it's a picture that's fine. I think it's fluid, but above all it's a way to rule distracted, incoherent, and improvised. It's a distracted way to rule. Looks like they were passing by. Mr. Olabarría said, "You don't know who did it. You don't know that either, Minister. You have indeed inherited the ministry, but unlike all those things with which you qualify the members of the Socialist Group when you speak of the inheritance received, I must admit that you were delighted by Gallardon's inheritance. He's inherited Gallardon, he's bragging about the inheritance, and he's done him good, if you can. He was bragging in the chair. You brag about the facts. If he didn't make a deal, you don't make a deal, but you come here and say good words. You are far more distracted than Gallardón in the way of legislation and that is a problem; it is a problem in the government as a whole, but it is a particularly serious problem in the Ministry of Justice, because, as my colleague Olabardón also recalled, the laws have to be complied with, even these, and we are all going to suffer the damage of these laws that are going to be passed today with the votes of the majority group. I will not talk about the content of the amendments or the content of the law at this stage. With everything we've already said, I think we already know. We reflected our position in the amendments that we tabled and that we defended, they did not admit to us any - nor is it any surprise - and the most important amendment, that is, the one that is not merely syntax, that is not merely form, that is not merely technical, introduced into the Senate is its own self-amendment, one of its own because the chaff was large enough for them to have to amend themselves, and because they had no respect for the previous procedure, they could not have sex with us when the subject was under discussion in the Commission and in the paper. Finally, as I say, Minister - let me address you - a disaster; a disaster in content, a disaster in processing, a robbery - in political terms, of course - a serious lack of respect for Parliament. These are two proposals of law that came wrong, that went through the procedures - which for you was a mere procedure - in the Congress of Deputies and that came to the Senate and they come back from the Senate as they were, which, on the other hand, is a demonstration more of what the Senate serves in Spain, for what it serves and what it costs us, because we find it expensive to have a second reading chamber that only makes grammatical reforms of the laws, the brush, which Alfonso Guerra would say, in grammatical terms, than in political terms, and we also have to translate it into several of our co-official languages in the autonomous communities, because we put on a pinnacle so as not to understand ourselves in the common language of all Spaniards. Let us at least conclude that it is not a question of taking the Senate anywhere else in Spain, but of closing a Chamber that is absolutely useless. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received from the Senate the text of two bills referring both to the Criminal Procedure Act, ordinary and organic law, with changes, some of which represent improvements, I have no problem in recognizing it, on the contrary, but which fail to resolve the initial vice, ab initio, that which our colleague Gaspar Llamazares described at the time, when he passed through Congress, as a great missed opportunity to reform the prosecution and the criminal process in our country. That has unfortunately not been resolved by the procedure in Congress, which, as we have denounced by many groups, lasted barely a few hours in the morning, for a law of that size. That can't become normal, because then what happens next I'll try to explain to you. Nor has the process been resolved in the Senate, because this bill, which was originally planned with certain insurgents to undertake a thorough reform of a law that sinks its roots in the late nineteenth century, has been left in a bill that, to the extent that it has become law, is born dead in terms of these claims, dead, even in some respects, I dare say, with some issues that may become the subject of successive complications. Since we have not finished doing the debate because you have not allowed it in relation to how to address the issue of criminal investigation, it turns out that the initial idea of setting up a criminal investigation around the prosecutor's office has not advanced, but it has remained in a kind of hybrid that I fear will be the subject of countless conflicts and at the same time of profound inefficiencies in the functioning of the criminal process. That is not just any thing, because certainly everything is questionable, especially in these issues where the world of law and the world of politics are found, but that everything is questionable does not mean that it can be resolved with that work of alignment with which you dispatch some laws. Secondly, in an aspect that depends on how you look you can assume that the glass is a little more full, we believe it has also been a missed opportunity. It is true that guarantees are now increasing in relation to detainees accused of terrorist crimes - it is true that these guarantees are increasing, welcome or not - but we have missed the great opportunity to understand that, although the phenomenon of terrorism has certainly not disappeared from our social reality, even if it takes different forms, the way to combat it may be different, but, above all, I believe that we should have learned that the way to combat it cannot be to undermine the rights and guarantees of detainees, because it always happens the same, even in better structured political systems: when a control of power disappears, power becomes impunity and commits arbitrariness such as those committed in this country in some detention processes. Therefore, you have missed the opportunity to address in depth, as you were at some point raised, this adaptation of the legislation in the criminal order, in the order of the Criminal Prosecution Act to the new reality of the criminal prosecution of terrorist crimes. I think it is another thing that is going to determine, unfortunately not in a positive way, this bill. [[The lady]] There is something that has already appeared here, but which is certainly sonado, which is all the change in the structure, I dare say, even in the nature of the criminal prosecution. Almost nothing! Some may think that the recent decision and the one to be published in the State Official Gazette is much better than there was, but let me give the following reflections to the members of the People's Party and to the Minister of Justice himself. Look closely, we're talking about the criminal marriage, almost nothing! It is not the subject of debate in its significant change. It does not come in the initial bill. Something like that should come in the initial bill. He's not coming. The reason why you will not come will have to explain it, because if you have proposed it later, you will have to explain why you did not consider it appropriate to incorporate it in the initial bill and in what you call a transactional in the Senate process. Secondly, it seems to me quite well that the judges of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, who are well acquainted with the matter, have the capacity to make suggestions on how to order the criminal prosecution, but do they not think it would have been better that this would have been the subject of an exchange of views among all and even of some consultation with respect to those of other legal operators? Or does it turn out that when you have an idea, if you have the political capacity to influence and the lobbying capacity to do so, it is entrusted first to the Government if it is a bill and if not to the People's Group? Things can't be done this way. Finally, there is the formula of the transaction. I have been in this House for four years, but I have some legal training, because I also come from the world of work, from the world of collective bargaining, from trade unionism. I understand that the compromise is that between at least two, with different opinions and conflicting interests, they agree to reach an agreement and, in parliamentary terms, of two different texts, they agree to a text that they agree to. That's what I thought until I came to this House. One good day I find that not here; here the transaction is an act that you can do with yourself. Forgive me, I am possibly the newest in this House, but something is happening, isn't it? Sometimes some Bureau of this House, some lawyer should say: this cannot be done, because it breaks the very essence of the transaction, and so things like this happen, that the criminal prosecution comes through an amendment of the People's Group that deals with itself. From here we have to make a suggestion to the Dictionary of the Royal Spanish Language Academy to say that they change the concept of transactional, that transactional is no longer a thing that is done between two people, but that it is a thing that can do the left hand with the right hand or one with you do not know what. They may seem like anecdotal things, but they are not, because all those things that we are putting to you all the groups in the House have at heart the same root cause, by the way, because at the origin, that is, at the root, there is a way of legislating that has been during the whole legislature a true chasm. I am not saying a hint for content, because in politics the content is decided by the majority - if it can be, the majority should not be crushing the minority because then it is not democracy - but when you say ostentatically: we are so many and you are only eleven, a part of reason they have, but in the forms, no, because the forms in democracy are the essential from this point of view. If the forms are subverted, democracy is devalued and you have been doing so in the process of these laws throughout this legislature. I turn to an issue that is important and that is going to have more legal impact than it seems, which is what refers to the change in the legal denomination in which certain persons so far referred to as imputed are found. It's a questionable issue. It has also been done in such a way that it has not given rise to sufficient debate, as we now know that what has so far been imputed can be investigated or prosecuted. That differentiation may not be wrong, but I continue to see clearly how the different times a person is going to go through from the particular time he or she is being arrested or that there are indications that he or she may have been involved in some form of criminal offence. I continue to be unclear about this process and that has important consequences, it has consequences in the end for any citizen, because what cannot be done is to legislate only for the economic and political elite of this country, and some of these measures are oriented in this way. While the defendants were common criminals, no one was concerned that being accused would practically entail a disappearance of the presumption of innocence. On the other hand, when the accused have become persons of a certain economic and political standing in the country, then everyone has to run to safeguard their constitutional rights and even their right to privacy. There may be a curious circumstance. I don't know when this law will be published in the State Official Gazette, I don't even know - because the transitional provisions are quite complicated and as you have done much more - if when the President of the Generalitat appears at the High Court of Justice on the 15th the way starts with the current trial as imputed, but if this law is published in the State Official Gazette it will arrive only as investigated. This has its consequences from a criminal point of view and also from a social point of view, because it is not exactly the same. In that sense, it would be opportune if on another occasion - there is no time - things were done in another way, calmly, as the laws are done. I conclude with an important point, Jordi Jané, Spokesman for the Convergence and Union Group and current Councillor for Justice, highlighted it at the time, when he negotiated - this time - with the People's Group the treatment to be given to the defendants detained in certain proceedings and the necessary balance between the right to information and the right to the image of those persons. Be curious again. While the judicial police, which has the custom, I think absolutely unnecessary, to put one's hand in the head when they put him in the car, did this with ordinary and common criminals, there was no problem - it seems that these people do not have the same rights as the rest -. Now, when the hand began to be placed on someone's head as - for example - Mr. Rat, then everyone to shake. No, no, The right to image belongs to any citizen, because even if it only deteriorates before his neighbors, it is enough.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u109	Mr. Coscubiela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u110	You have done it in those terms and let's see what results it gives. I sincerely believe that this is not going to solve the problem, because it requires a deontological treatment of all professions that go beyond that of the law: judicial police, prosecutors, judges, the media. If in each of these intervening groups there are no more demanding codes of ethics than those that are now being practiced, everything that the law has done at this time will be useless, because if an investigated or prosecuted person must necessarily be the subject of a television audience just because the media are very bad and it is necessary to attract an audience, the thing is very bad. I'm done. These are my last words, President, thank you very much, the last of the truth, not only in this speech but in my parliamentary activity. I think it is good that everything has been done to avoid the pain of the television news - in the words of Mr Jané - but look how curious, what life is. Some defendants have the penalty of the broadcaster. Others have the prize and gift of the Midgia Telenews and the Evening TeleNews, because not all defendants are equal. Some are punished with the punishment of the television and in others the same act becomes the gift of the Telenotícies vespre or the Telenotícies migdia. The code of ethics should serve everyone. Maybe you think I'm very utopian, very chimerical, but that's why I'm here, that's why I'm here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Coscubiela. Mrs Surroca has the floor for the Convergence and Union Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm going to intervene briefly from the seat. I agree with the start of the intervention of some speakers who have preceded me in the use of the floor, in the sense that these projects are a missed opportunity to make a real reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act. There are quite a few criticisms on our part. As you can imagine, I am not going to talk about the aspects that we consider to be positive, but it is time to highlight those aspects that should have been improved throughout the parliamentary process. The Government has amended the text of the bill to ensure that the cassation effectively fulfils its unifying function of criminal doctrine. In this section we consider that, in addition to a centralizing manoeuvre by the Government, which delegates provincial hearings to establish their doctrinal criteria, this reform misses the opportunity to adjust the regulation of autonomous statutes. In particular, greater powers should be conferred on the relevant higher courts of justice, in accordance with the provisions of the statutes of autonomy. This is the case with the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. Another aspect of concern to us is that the legal aid of the accused is not adequately guaranteed in all proceedings and that the right of defence of the accused is not protected. Despite the fact that both draft laws state in their preamble that such reforms are planned in order to strengthen the procedural rights of defendants and detainees, the legislative development of these fundamental rights is not at all guaranteed and is imprecise and lacking in content in terms of practical foresight during criminal proceedings. We have moved this in the form of amendments which have not been incorporated into the text. For example, aspects such as the requirement for legal aid during all proceedings are essential. Counselling should take place not only during the judicial disposition or appearance before the judge, but should be extended. The detainee must be able to be assisted from the moment of arrest in police proceedings, as well as throughout the judicial process. Another important aspect is to ensure the defence of the detainee, and the lawyer is able to examine all the proceedings. It is essential for the lawyer to have access to all information in police and judicial proceedings in order to be able to provide adequate assistance to the detainee and to guarantee the right to effective judicial protection. With regard to the intervention of communications in the event of an emergency, we do not agree with the adoption, without due judicial authorization, of measures which may restrict fundamental rights, as it is contrary to the current legal order and may lead to excessive or fraudulent practices. We believe that it is necessary to abolish the power of the police to place a technical monitoring and tracing device or means without judicial authorization in an emergency. Finally, another important aspect is the provision of material and personal resources to enable the Administration of Justice to proceed with the new measures provided for by the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act. This - we believe - is a fundamental aspect: to provide adequate means for the implementation of the measures contained precisely in these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Surroca. Mrs Ciuro has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, today we are dealing with the latest reform of a law that is 132 years old. It was worth a good review, it was worth some good modifications to ensure what must prevail when one comes up with the reform of a legislative body such as the criminal process, which is the guarantee of the fundamental rights of citizens. We are talking about a criminal process that affects the freedoms and deprivation of those freedoms, that affects the privacy of individuals, that affects the ability of a person to be held in custody because it is the subject of suspicion of some criminal offence. Therefore, these are actions that require extreme zeal and extreme caution, and it is part of all these actions for the benefit of fundamental rights to come up with calm reforms and with consensus, far removed from the government formula adopted by the People's Party Government during this legislature. We have passed laws - these laws that you defend and those that make flags - through the urgent procedure when you did not have them; we have amended the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court into a single reading without preceptive reports, not at the request of the Government, but at the request of the majority group; we have practiced transactional onanism when we agreed - I speak in a mayostatic plural that of course does not affect this group but the majority group; we are now closing down the reform of the organic law of the criminal process and we say nothing about how we are going to guarantee fair trials, for example with regard to leaks interested in the press, we say nothing about how we are going to guarantee the right to a fair trial and that the affected party has all the guarantees that a trial deserves. That is not what this reform says, Minister. Nor does it say how we are going to get it not to settle in the collective imagination of the Spanish State, following the imputation of President Mas, that if it were not because the imputation was ordered by the Government and the date of the declaration was dictated by the Minister of Justice, we would be talking about a judicial issue. This is on the street, Minister, it's on social media. It is a pity that the minister of the branch tolerates these actions. How are we going to guarantee the fundamental right to vote if votes have been lost? Catalan citizens with the right to vote - the most sacred right and on which democracy is based - have not been able to exercise their right and have lost votes from Rome. Man is able to find water on Mars and is not able to bring a handful of votes from Rome, at least the Spanish state is not able to do so. Minister, we would like to see a democratic and motu proprio exercise, not because this Member is asked to do so in writing, appear before the end of the parliamentary term in the Committee on Justice and explain to us what has happened to all these misadjustments. Do you know what's going on? That we would like to think that Spanish democracy is indeed a social and democratic state of law, that the highest judicial authorities, led by the Minister of Justice in legislative matters, are by the work and that they give face and answer to all those doubts that citizens can legitimately have when we see that some strange things happen when it comes to legislation, when it comes to proceeding and that distrust makes a mess of the citizens of this country. I believe that you have a difficult task in this regard, Minister, and the opportunity before the end of the legislature to be able to instill a little peace and quiet in the citizenship of the Spanish State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Mr De la Rocha has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice, the Senate is returning the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act into two bills, one of an organic nature, which concerns issues relating to fundamental guarantees and rights of detainees, accused persons or defendants, and another of ordinary legality, which seeks to speed up proceedings. Both in the debate on the amendments to the whole and in the Committee on Justice, my colleague, rapporteur Soraya Rodríguez, and the Socialist senators expressed their fundamental disagreement with the central aspects of this reform, which, rather than strengthening procedural guarantees in many important cases, limited them, when they did not simply violate them, and that, rather than speeding up justice, they promoted, in our view, improvised and deficient measures that could lead to the impunity of many criminals and a new blockade of the courts of justice. The first thing to say is that this reform - we have already said it on other occasions - is the expression of a great failure, the failure to comply with an important commitment made by this government at the beginning of the legislature, the failure to submit a comprehensive reform of Alonso Martínez's Criminal Prosecution Act of 1882. It has not simply done out of contempt for that excellent preliminary draft law which a very rigorous technical and professional group had prepared with the former socialist government and which they abandoned when they could have modified it and brought it forward in this legislature. That is why we reform a law of the nineteenth century, when what we need is a procedural law of the twenty-first century, a law that finally attributes the investigation to the prosecutor's office and places the judge in his role as a guarantor judge, as a guarantee judge, according to the constitutional model. It is therefore a very partial reform, a reform to a large extent improvised and full of contradictions. On the one hand, the model is maintained - of course, the model is not changed - that the investigating judge is the one who drives, the one who directs, the one who controls the investigation - the model of the investigating judge is maintained and the investigation and the investigation is not given to the prosecutor's office - and, on the other hand, in some of the key reforms that you, Minister, have brought to this House, functions of impulse and direction of the proceedings contradictory with which they are now taken away from the investigating judge are attributed to the prosecutor's office. They are two different models, two contradictory models that mix inadequately and perhaps recklessly in the results of this reform and which will soon have to be overcome. But he said that it is also an expression of a way of legislating based on constant improvisation, which undoubtedly calls into question legal certainty. Let me ask everyone, the Minister and the spokesmen of the People's Group, how many reforms of the Criminal Procedure Act and how many reforms of the Organic Law of the Judiciary have been processed and approved or are being approved since you were a minister in the last year and a half, in the last year: several, too many and without concatenation, without binding, each of your father and mother, if I may be allowed this expression, perhaps too trivial for an issue of this importance. It is regrettable that a reform of the criminal procedural law, of the Criminal Procedure Act, we have not been able to do so with a legislative process that would have allowed us to find not only debates but also to seek the necessary consensus for a rule that will probably, until there is a procedural law of the twenty-first century, have a long legal life. It is enough to note something that has been said by some of the spokespersons, such as Mr Olabarría, Mrs Díez or Mr Coscubiela: the reform of the criminal prosecution. Let me insist on that. The reform of criminal prosecution was not included in the bill that you have already brought, it is not a subject of Mr Gallardón. The reform of criminal prosecution was not included in the amendments tabled here in this House by the People's Parliamentary Group. How did you suddenly get to the House? Mr Castillo will remember that, Mr Ordóñez will remember that, the members of the Commission who were there will remember that. The debate on this bill was held, it ended, the compromise amendments did not arrive, and suddenly, already in the end, some texts appeared in which the reform of the penal cassation was in place; it suddenly fell. The government uses transactions - Mr Olabarría has explained very well - that they did not have sex with anyone and the reform appears, an accelerated, improvised and sluggish reform - if I may say so - so improvised and sluggish that in the Senate they have had to amend themselves to adjust it better. I don't mean it's not really a laudable target. My group would have liked to have been able to discuss the reform of the penal cassation, which was a long-standing long-aspiration for the Supreme Court to cease to be a court which, in its cassation appeals, also serves as a semi-second instance, forcing the model attributed to it by the Constitution. We would have liked it, but with this way that you have to make the laws, with this systematic and constant improvisation, it is absolutely impossible for there to be the slightest search for consensus, not even the least collective satisfaction for a bill that is a great failure and a great frustration. Let me quickly enter into the most important content that we do not share in both bills. The draft Organic Law regulates a range of subjects that affect the fundamental rights of suspects, detainees and their guarantees. There is no reasonable balance between freedom and security here. Again, the balance is too much for security in the face of guarantees and freedom. It is an expression of an authoritarian police conception that imposes the police on freedom. It is true that there have been some compromise amendments - I have no harm in recognizing it here - which have spelled out some of these aspects on time - in Congress a transaction was made with Mr Olabarria, so that in the cases of incommunicado detention the forensic doctor could intervene at least twice a day, and now, in the Senate, you have eliminated the second extension of the period of incommunicado detention - but you are insufficient. For example, the right of defence and legal aid was regulated in April 2015 and is now being re-regulated in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner, to transpose Directive 2013/48, a directive that significantly expands the fundamental rights of detainees before their defence, to choose a lawyer of their confidence. Well, this is where police conception has been imposed again. In the case of incommunicado detainees, this right is sought because they may be required to have an ex officio lawyer and not a lawyer of their trust, violating a fundamental right that is already recognized in a directive. We have also spoken extensively in the full debate, in the Commission, also in the Senate, about the wide range of interferences in the privacy of the accused in criminal proceedings. You will recall that, along with the classic interferences in correspondence, in telephone conversations, in telematic communications, there are some new developments that new technologies make possible. There are some very important, but also very strong. They are very serious interferences in people's privacy, for example, recording oral communications at someone's home through electronic devices placed on the night table or in the living room or introducing Trojans for remote recording of computer equipment. What do we miss? These are certainly reforms that had to be introduced, required by the international courts, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, but in these matters, ladies and gentlemen, which affect fundamental rights of communication or privacy, special caution and, above all, proportionality are required. Minister, criminal proportionality is constitutionally relevant; it derives from article 24 of the Constitution. No measure can be taken for any type of crime. In our amendments and in our debates we said that there were three aspects that had to be changed or matified. The first, that these measures cannot be applied to any type of offence; except for the old offences, which now become minor offences, are applicable to all other types of offence. Its duration can reach up to two years; you have adjusted to eighteen months some, but not all. In addition, there are exceptions: the police can act, on urgent grounds, without judicial authorization. The bulk of these measures are maintained in the part which we believe violates, inter alia, the human rights case law of the Court of Strasbourg, which has said that in these interferences, which call for greater intensity, we must be clearly cautious. For crimes such as theft, threats, injuries or - let me tell you this - those of trade unionists who exercise the right to strike, who have sentences of six months to three years, the law allows them to be recorded at their home for two years. In Germany, the Constitutional Court declared far worse measures than these to be contrary to its Constitution. This prevents, even if that is the only reason, a favourable position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the bill. On the subject of casual findings - I do not want to expand on this - they have made some slight matisation in the Senate, but insufficient. As regulated, there can be widespread or indiscriminate monitoring and collection of data beyond the specific crime being investigated. It is a kind of inquisitorial research; as is often said: launch the net to see if you can catch something. Well, it seems deeply...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u117	Mr. De la Rocha, you'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u118	I'm finishing up, Madam President. I will refer to two more measures of the other bill, the ordinary one. Its flagship measure is the reduction of the maximum period of investigation to six months, eighteen if the case is declared complex, extendable at the request of the prosecution and the parties concerned, but not ex officio. I have already said here - and I repeat again - that this is a propagandistic and also ineffective measure, a measure that starts from the simplistic reading that justice is slow because there are no deadlines and because judges are not diligent, because judges want. No; justice is slow because it does not have sufficient means. The speed of justice is not going to be fixed - as is said outside of this - by article 33, i.e. by article 324. No; the Government assumes that judges do not finish matters before because they do not want to. It's a ridiculous and offensive reading for judges. The Fiscal Council says in its report - which is in the memory that we have been given - that this is a great absurdity. Indeed, it is a great absurdity. In this House there are many lawyers - also in the People's Group - and many lawyers, good lawyers with experience in the forum. I would dare to ask you if you know many instructions that last less than six months. Undoubtedly, those that are archived on a plan, which are not going to reach the courts now because there is a measure that states that those who do not have known author do not have to be sent by the police. In addition, it is a disruptive and legal insecure measure, especially for victims, because it does not foresee what happens when the deadlines are over. What will happen when the deadlines are over is that there will be hasty decisions to close the investigation, qualifications without solid foundation...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u119	Mr. De la Rocha, you have to finish. I'll give you ten more seconds to say good-bye.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u120	It's definitely a misconception. The same is true - we have already said at other times - with measures such as the process of acceptance by decree, due to its rigidity, or the manifestly defective regulation of the connection. Yes we share - I finish now, Madam President -...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u121	Mr. De la Rocha, I'm telling you honestly...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u122	These are two bills that have accumulated and we are given the same time as if it were a single bill. It seems to me that the relevance of this fact would require minimal generosity. We share the generalization...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u123	I have been kind to both you and Mr. Coscubiela and you have to leave the rostrum. I've warned you three times, Mr. De la Rocha.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u124	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u125	Ten seconds and he says goodbye to the rostrum. Ten.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u126	I conclude by saying that, as has been said, it is a failed reform, a reform that in the Senate has had technical improvements - we will support some - but that essentially maintains this set of contradictions, of limitations to guarantees and rights that my group is unable to vote for. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u127	Thank you very much, sincerely, Mr. De la Rocha. For the People's Group, Mr Ordóñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank the other two rapporteurs of my group, Mr José Antonio Bermúdez and Mr Agustín Conde, for the enormous work they have done with these two bills, and the Minister of Justice, here today, for the impetus given to a reform that contributes so much to the improvement of the criminal process and to the defence of citizens' rights. I would also like to thank the other groups for their remarkable contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating this last parliamentary debate on justice and we are doing so with the deep conviction that we have succeeded in ensuring that around thirty initiatives will enable all citizens to exercise their rights better. The adaptation of a rule such as the Criminal Prosecution Act of 1882 to the reality of the year 2015 is a necessary consequence of the passage of time, but it is also the duty of the State, of which this House is the fundamental pillar, to establish agile, modern justice that strengthens the procedural guarantees of democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption. This reform is articulated in two draft laws: one, of a regular nature, with a new and updated regulation of the connection, the attestations without known author, the time limits of investigation, the appeal, the process by acceptance of decree, confiscation or the remedy of revision; and another, of an organic nature, necessary for affecting fundamental rights, which regulates such important matters as the status of the investigated person, the undercover agent, technological investigation measures or replacement of accused person by the investigated or prosecuted person. Two are therefore the clear objectives of this reform: the speeding up of criminal justice and the eradication of the endemic evil of delays in processing. For this purpose, the instructional times are changed. First, the ineffective one-month period is replaced by the six-month period for the instruction of simple cases and eighteen months for complex cases. This will allow the injured person to obtain without further delay the just reparation, but also to prevent a delay from entailing a penalty added to the guilty party or an undeserved stigmatization of the innocent. Some point out that the setting of time limits causes defencelessness in the field of evidence. We strongly say that no, since the investigation proceedings agreed on in time will be valid without prejudice to their subsequent incorporation into the proceedings. Nor impunity, because, in fact, if the deadline is over, the cause is over, but if there are, even if the deadline is over, it will continue until the oral trial. This is expressly provided for in article 324.8. The rules of connectivity are also modified. As your honors know, the instructor was obliged to investigate in a single process all the various crimes against the same person if it involved some kind of similarity or analogy, origin and reason of the endless causes that we all know. This reform is based on the principle of 'a crime, a cause'. In future, the accumulation by connection will take place only in cases expressly assessed. The procedure for accepting a decree, the so-called criminal monitoring, is also introduced, which will allow a prompt response to those offences punishable by fine, works for the benefit of the community or imprisonment not exceeding one year, replaced by a fine with or without deprivation of driving licence; a procedure already consolidated in comparative law and which finds its reason in the principle of procedural economy, both for the State and for the defendant himself, who is also allowed to reduce by a third his sentence with the procedural guarantee that the appearance must be registered in full, if possible, by audiovisual means, and if not, must be documented with the subjection to the general rules. The obligation to refer the attestations without known author to the court is abolished, and we have to say that 40% of the attestations do not go beyond the criminal relevance. Therefore, a procedure is abolished, which only makes it unnecessary to accumulate judicial proceedings; that is, it is safeguarded and requires referral in those crimes against life, physical integrity, sexual freedom and compensation or those crimes related to corruption. In addition, the protection of the injured person is maintained in full, since at the time of the preparation of the attestation he is warned that if in seventy-two hours the attested author is not known, he will be archived. But it is also possible, both in the Prosecution Act and in the victim's statute, to have access at any time to a judicial presence or to the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. It must also be said that, of course, the certificates will not be destroyed and will always be available to the prosecutor's office and the judicial authority. The second aspect of this reform is to strengthen procedural guarantees and promote legal certainty. First, the word imputed is replaced by the word investigated or, at a later stage, prosecuted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that the word imputed had achieved a sort of social meaning as almost responsible: the person to whom an act is attributed even before finding out whether that act was possible. While investigating is the possibility of knowing, imputing is already ascribe a certain behavior to a person. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot say that we safeguard the right of presumption of innocence if society stigmatises a citizen even before it warns of anything against him. This reform also establishes a new statute for the investigator, with the right to a reserved interview with his/her lawyer even before he/she is received a statement before the judicial police, prosecutor's office or judicial authority. Confidentiality of communications with counsel, third-party information of detention or detention abroad or remoteness, which is also regulated in the protection of the person concerned. Protection of the most vulnerable detainees, minors or persons with judicially modified capacities. The regulation of DNA sampling. The incommunicado period of detention is limited and restricted to the strictly necessary time, with a limit of five days, which can be extended to ten days, and also with a decision motivated by the judicial authority. The physical integrity and indemnity of the person are fully preserved by requiring that the person be recognized as a medical practitioner, at least twice every 24 hours, according to the discretion of the medical practitioner. The general reform also affects the establishment of the second instance and there is also a new regulation on the appeal procedure. We welcome the intervention of Mr Emilio Olabría, as we welcome the intervention by action or omission of the other speakers, who in no way criticize the content of the reform, although they put some obstacles - something obvious, because we are talking about the opposition groups - in terms of its processing or incorporation. The truth is that in substance I have not heard, except for some error that I might have, any reproach as to the content and introduction of the cassation remedy in this new regulation. Similarly, the review appeal is established to enforce the judgements of the European Court of Human Rights, and, very important, to deal with democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption, a process of autonomous confiscation is regulated that will allow the State to appropriate property derived from the crime, even if the perpetrator cannot be tried. On 29 July, Fr. Pedro Sánchez called a press conference to announce that if he ever came to the government, he would reform the Criminal Code to act against the assets of the corrupt, even if they had it on behalf of third parties. How sorry we were that he did not know that that was precisely what he had voted against on 26 March; he and the whole Socialist Group, like the Minister of Justice, not without sadness, needed to remember him. Ladies and gentlemen, you may still be assimilating the ever-illustrated verb of Don Emilio Olabría on the Marquis of Beccaria and the ontological foundation of the penalties, or perhaps embroiled in how to incorporate into the debate his recurring mantras of austerity, cuts, the right, privatizations or the suffering of the humble. There you go. I would ask you now, knowing what you are going to vote on, to supplement the reform of the Criminal Code on 26 March, to instruct Don Pedro to support a reform that protects and enables society to be compensated for the effects of crime, but which also represents a major step forward in the fundamental rights of the detainee. This is something to which we all have to feel committed, as were the opposition groups with their contributions in the ordinary law by regulating the attestations without known author, the setting of deadlines, the monitoring, the confiscation or the remedy of review; or in the organic law, with the prior interview, the undercover agent, the protection of the right to honour, privacy or image, or in the regulation of the right to information on the occasion of an arrest. We are, ladies and gentlemen, facing a reform that responds to the cry and the right of all...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u129	Mr. Ordóñez, I'd have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u130	I'm done, Madam President. It said that we are faced with a reform that responds to the cry and the right of all citizens to have an agile and effective justice, that strengthens and guarantees their procedural rights and that responds to a demand for democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption that belongs to all, to the People's Party, as a party of government, but also to you, the opposition groups. In conclusion, I would like to request a separate vote on the amendment made in the Senate to paragraph 7, which amends article 792.4, in order to delete only the expression 'by breach of law and by breach of form', and the remainder of the paragraph should remain with the same wording. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Ordóñez. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u132	Thank you very much, President. I am well aware of the time it is and what is left of the session ahead. I will therefore speak very briefly to express my thanks to the House, to your ladies and gentlemen, to the members of the Committee on Justice, to the lawyers of the House for the work done with these two draft laws and, in general, for all the work that has been done over the past twelve months that has enabled the adoption of up to fourteen legislative reform projects. These are projects in which the Government may have some merit, but as one of your ladies and gentlemen asked how the bills are made, I will tell you that they are made with the contributions of many, with the contributions of your ladies and gentlemen, with the amendments, with the initiatives, with the contributions of the professionals, the judges, the prosecutors and also of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court. It would only be necessary for us not to listen to the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, to all the judges in that Chamber - read today's press - when they value the reforms being carried out. They are made with the contributions of lawyers, trade unions, professional associations, because they all have the capacity to provide ideas. That effort to gather opinions is the one that has enabled us to make a bill such as that which has been analysed by your ladies and gentlemen in this session, which will allow for the speeding up of criminal justice, the improvement in the rules of connectivity, the extensive implementation of the procedure of acceptance by decree, the setting of time limits for the investigation to have a temporary limit; it will also allow the attested without known author not to flood the tables of judges and prosecutors, which I believe are positive instruments to speed up criminal justice and also to strengthen procedural guarantees. To finally establish the second criminal court, to establish the review appeal as a system to incorporate the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights into our law, to strengthen legal aid in all proceedings and at all stages of police and procedural action, is certainly good news. As is also the strengthening of legal certainty by ensuring that all technological research measures will always be authorized and monitored by the judicial authority. There is also a system of criminal prosecution, in which I am sure that your ladies and gentlemen agree that it strengthens and improves our system, beyond what has been the procedural procedure for its establishment. All these measures further strengthen judicial independence and, if anyone has any doubts about judicial independence today in Spain, there is nothing more to read from the prosecutor's office or the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia to know how judicial independence works in Spain, as a principle of our rule of law, on which we should not create any shadow of doubt because the only thing it does is to lead to confusion and surely those who are not so expert in the matter and do not know in detail that judicial independence exists with all strength, we do not help them to create shadow of doubt that the prosecutors themselves and the judges themselves are responsible for clarifying. The reforms that have been addressed during this legislature are sound. It is true that this House is the manifestation of pluralism, of national sovereignty, of discrepancy, of political diversity, but it is curious that when one attends professional days, academic days or congresses, the reforms are valued very positively, and then contrasts when one hears some interventions. We must bear in mind that we are at the end of the legislature, which sometimes focuses more on the negative than on the positive, but in general the legal community is positively appreciating all the reforms that have been carried out. I conclude, as I said, by thanking them for the work, effort and reforms that have been carried out during this time, because we are convinced - the People's Parliamentary Group, which has promoted and supported them and has done an extraordinary job that I want to thank - that we are strengthening the rule of law in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u133	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u134	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft Organic Law of the Military Penal Code. Mrs Lozano has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u135	Thank you very much, President. Since the beginning of this bill, my group explained that it seemed a mistake to us, because the truly relevant debate that needs to be addressed about military jurisdiction is the relevance of its continuing existence. We have already explained on numerous occasions, during this procedure, that the point of view of our parliamentary group is that military justice should be abolished. Not only was it pointless to stir up this debate in this legislature, but it had to be shut down through a reform of the Military Penal Code, which was an involution. We have explained why military jurisdiction makes the Armed Forces a territory of emergency, opacity, a territory in which corporatism prevails over justice in the end and where it is often much easier to find cases of impunity, lack of guarantees and even deprivation of the rights of the accused than cases of true justice. Military courts operate on numerous occasions as genuine military units because they are not independent courts. That is why my group has insisted on the need, like so many other countries - Germany, Norway - to dispense with that military jurisdiction. From that point of view, all this processing, which has been a mistake, concludes today, but does not conclude the error, and its consequences will continue to be suffered for years by many men and women who provide a huge service to Spain and who do not deserve criminal treatment such as that provided by this Penal Code. The second option, since the Government was unwilling to abolish that military jurisdiction, was to reduce the list of crimes, because it did not see the relationship between theft and the Army, for example, or between sexual harassment and the Army. Common crimes must be tried within the ordinary jurisdiction and, in any case, be restricted to the minimum of what remains within the scope of military jurisdiction. But far from addressing this second approach, what the Government is doing with this reform is expanding that catalogue of crimes. That is why we have explained - the case of sexual harassment within the army is very revealing - how to define it as a crime does not contribute to its persecution, to its disappearance as a practice, but rather that the necessary thing is prevention and, above all, to guarantee the victims safe channels to report. To include it as a crime simply means to extend that military jurisdiction that perpetuates that territory of exception, which in the legal sphere is the Armed Forces. None of this has changed in the handling of the law in the Senate. There has been no evolution in military justice at all, but, on the contrary, there is an involution. We will therefore once again vote against these amendments. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the UI Group, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u137	Thank you, President. Today the proceedings of this debate on the Military Penal Code and for the Group of the Plural Left are completed. There are the same doubts, concerns and considerations and opinions that we have already expressed throughout their proceedings since consideration. What goes wrong ends badly, and this debate about the Military Penal Code began badly, mainly because it was born behind the back of society, without any analysis at all and at any time of the opinion of the military, of the people, of the men and women who make up the Armed Forces, disdaining or, worse still, not even taking into account what they thought and what their professional organizations and associations thought. Once again, we must remember the complaints that have been made to this effect by these military associations and the Civil Guard - and I shall speak of that later - which have repeatedly said that this rule had not been conceived and arose without the necessary debate and careful analysis that it required. Today this House will adopt a new military penal rule that increases, as has already been said, the number of military criminal types and does so perversely because only the number of articles is apparently thinned and condenses that increase into a single article. That's what happens with this new rule, with this new penal code: the articles go down, but the criminal rates go up. They do so, moreover, beyond the military, affecting the crimes that already have their correlative characterization in the field of ordinary justice, in the Common Criminal Code, that is, overcoming and exceeding the constitutional mandate to refer and strictly limit themselves to the castress sphere and again demonstrating, in a clear way, the ideology and the conception that the People's Party and the Government have, in this case, of the rule of law. A separate mention requires the treatment given to the Civil Guard; this strange obsessiveness that the Government has to apply to the Civil Guard the military penal norm, despite the contrary opinion of all groups of the House; despite the contrary opinion of all associations of the Civil Guard professionals. You maintain the spirit of Article 1(5) and consolidate and increase the application of this code to the Civil Guard. We have already warned you that we are not going to vote on any of the amendments that have to do with this matter because they are doing nothing other than consolidating this genuine misconception, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It is a very important legal error; a nonsense, moreover, that will allow a few to apply this penal rule of a military nature to the Civil Guard in its daily activity, an activity that is police, always police, at all times, in all circumstances, in fulfilment of the constitutional mission that have the same, common and identical as that assigned to the National Police by the Constitution. I speak of the daily and normal exercise of the functions that the body performs. Who wins with this mistake, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? It is clear that the same ones that justify that a civil authority, such as the Director General of the Civil Guard, is now considered a military authority and has a special criminal protection that he did not previously have and that had not been necessary for decades. Who loses? How does this affect the daily work of the men and women of the Civil Guard? Obviously in a very negative way, because they are going to be charged and charged with crimes, for behaviors in their daily activity than in the best of cases, and if there are reasons for this, they must be assessed first in the disciplinary field. In another matter, we are concerned about the criminalization of the criticism that this wording allows and we again denounce the wording of article 37, as we have already done in the Commission and put it back on the table, because we believe that it is a very dangerous door to punish the representatives and leaders of professional associations when they criticize situations - which there are, on a daily basis - that occur within the Armed Forces and now in the Civil Guard. All this, moreover, without the reform of military jurisdiction, a process that is too late for two years and conditioned, in any case, on partial reforms that are made to give an appearance of modernity, but that deepen in a model of military justice away from ordinary justice. That is the central element of this debate, which we have closed, wrongly, today: the confrontation of two models in the field of military criminal justice. A model that is defended by the Government, the People's Party, the Army's major states and hierarchies, which is the one that inspires and collects the text, which is based on the maintenance of the functioning of military jurisdiction, its organs, its regulation, its powers, its territorial scope, its procedural rules and the nature and origin of its judges. A model which, therefore, involves reproducing the mistakes of the past which, in the absence of impartiality, independence and taxonomy, is absolutely unacceptable in a criminal law. The other model, which is the alternative model that defends The Plural Left, is a model that is based on the overcoming and disappearance of military jurisdiction, circumscribing military criminal laws to certain conjunctures of the State, of the internal life of the State, that is, state of alarm, emergency, site, declared war. Finally, it is a model of the reality of the twenty-first century, of a modern society, of a democratic society that wants to have professional armed forces that carry out their work with full guarantees of respect for their fundamental rights and personal and public freedoms; a model, ladies and gentlemen, which involves among other issues - nor is it addressed in this reform - dealing with the procedural field as, on the other hand, it also determines the Law on Rights and Obligations. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have avoided this debate and have rejected each of the proposals that you wanted or intended to deepen on this issue, so our vote is going to be a negative vote on this law, which is going to be passed in addition to a few weeks from the next election date. We hope that after that election, in a few months you will vacate that bench, leave the Government, necessarily be evicted from the Government, in order to reopen this debate in order to ensure, once and for all, that justice and democracy are not left at the door of the barracks. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. Mr Guillaumes has the floor for the Convergence and Unity Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. We're in front of a military penal code that has good things. I always like to quote them even if it is a law that we do not share, as is the case, because it is a military penal code in which for the first time the gender perspective exists, which is fine because this had to be incorporated, but it is a golden occasion to leave many things hanging, some of which have been cited by some other spokesman. One can judge the origin or not, we understand that it does, that there has to be an area of military justice, restricted in any case - then I will define it - but what seems very contradictory is that this judge, if we understand that he has to be independent, because we understand that in any jurisdiction judicial independence is very important, instead continue to be subject to the military hierarchy; it is a contradiction in terms. We fall into the typical caricature that military justice is to justice what military cooking is to the kitchen, with which, there we go not well. If there is to be such jurisdiction, at least for certain cases, which continues to have hierarchical dependence does not make much sense. There is much ambiguity in many of the above cases that could be used to pursue elements that would have to be considered freedom of expression, and there is nothing worse in a criminal law - that applies also to the General Penal Code - than the one that is supposed to be incomplete; this creates terrible insecurity both for the individual and then for the judge who has to apply it. There has also been talk here of the Civil Guard. We know that it concerns essentially another law, but we have been able to comment here on other legislation. A civilian guard is a police officer; there is nothing more like a police officer than another police officer, so the regulations to which he has to be subjected have to be basically the same. We know that there are exceptions in the case of the Civil Guard, for example, if they are destined for war missions, abroad; even if there is no confusion if they are in a barracks where there is a military presence other than the Civil Guard, it would be absurd to apply two codes. We understand the restrictions but, generally speaking, the role of a police officer is the most autonomous that a public official has, unlike that of a military officer, who has the least. It is the police who make the most decisions autonomously, decisions that affect the fundamental freedoms of citizens, and it turns out that this function is subject to the same criteria as a strict military code; moreover this goes no less, but goes more in this law, and makes no sense. This jurisdiction must exist, but it must exist in cases where there is an exceptional situation, characteristic of the military, in conflict situations, etc. In the other cases, a man or a woman in uniform is a citizen like the others to whom the same rules apply as the others. Sounds like common sense. In Germany they have gone further; here in fact the exceptional character of the soldier has hardened. We are not going to make demagogy easy; we understand the very special characteristics of the military function and that in certain situations - we all imagine which ones, we do not need to describe them - they have to be subject to laws, to rules very different from those of the majority of citizens or that there prevails above all the order, discipline or hierarchy, which in these cases is absolutely essential. We understand, but in all or almost all of a soldier's life? This makes no sense because we are talking about citizens like others. We cannot accept it for these reasons. I repeat, we have found good things in these laws, at least that the gender perspective has been incorporated, which so far did not exist, but in many other cases we consider it not a step forward, but that, as some other spokesman has said, unfortunately it is the loss of an opportunity, it is a step backwards. Thank you very much, Minister, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Garrido has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group is going to cast a negative vote on the amendment to article 1.5 of the bill of the Military Penal Code that comes from the Senate. This is the amendment that is being debated this afternoon, which is much more than just an amendment, because it is nothing more and nothing less than to clarify how the Military Penal Code applies to the whole of the Civil Guard, to a security corps as important and valued as this. In the previous socialist legislature there was a consensus on this - I would like to recall it because it is very appropriate in this debate - and a consensus was reached through Article 7a - which is currently in force - of the Military Penal Code, which was voted by the People's Party, on the application of the Military Penal Code to the Civil Guard. I have here the text before this article 7bis, which says that the Military Penal Code will not apply when the Civil Guard carries out acts proper to its mission, to protect the free exercise of rights and freedoms and to guarantee citizen security. However, the Penal Code does apply when the Civil Guard operates in time of war or state of siege, military missions or is integrated into military units; in that case, the Penal Code does apply. That was the criterion of this amendment to the Military Penal Code in the previous legislature, which adopted a number of parliamentary groups, including the People's Group and the Socialist Group. The basis for this change that was made some years ago is the nature of the Civil Guard, a subject to which Mr. Guillaumes referred. The Civil Guard has a nature of police corps, of security corps. The functions of the Civil Guard are 95% police, civilian and security missions. That is their true nature; a nature that is, as it were, the background of the subject. The role of the Civil Guard is at the heart of the issue, that's really important, in what benefits citizens the role they play. What citizens want is to have effective results in the security forces and they do not care so much about the internal and disciplinary regime. They care about the effectiveness in this case of the Civil Guard, that's the bottom. The way in the whole history of the Civil Guard is to have a military disciplinary regime; that's the way. But the bottom influences the shape. We can't separate them at all. That is why the internal operating structure of the Civil Guard is not the same as that of the Army, it is not part of the Army and it does not have the same structure. He said earlier, I think with wise words, Mr. Guillaumes that the way a police officer operates is not the same as that of a military officer. He's explained it very well. That is why there are changes in the organizational structure of the Civil Guard that are not the same as what happens in the Armed Forces. I will cite two examples from the previous legislature. One, the suppression of the arrest warrants. The Civil Guard has no sanction of arrest, under its disciplinary regime the sanctions of arrest have disappeared, the deprivation of liberty has disappeared as an internal sanction and this has not produced any less effectiveness of the Civil Guard. I imagine that you will not agree to say that the Civil Guard is less effective, that it has lowered its effectiveness. I do not think that that opinion could be shared, even though arrests as an internal sanction system have disappeared from the Civil Guard, even for serious offences. However, there is an arrest penalty in the Armed Forces, even for minor offences. I repeat, in the Civil Guard, not even for serious faults; in the Army, even for minor faults. The other element that gives it a different form of functioning was precisely this article 7bis to which I referred earlier, and that is that in the previous legislature it was concluded that the Military Criminal Code, as a general rule, should not apply to the Civil Guard, which does not mean that there would be impunity because it would be governed by the ordinary Criminal Code and its hypothetical criminal actions would be judged by civilian judges, not military judges. This conclusion was reached that the Military Criminal Code was not applied to the Civil Guard as a general rule. What does the Government Bill do, the one that the Government sent last year? What article 1.5 does is to change and reverse that rule, and to say: as a general rule, the Military Penal Code will apply, with certain exceptions. It reverses the rule, the general rule goes from the non-applies to the self-applies, which is a very important change in philosophy. In our view it is an involution and that is why we, before the summer, when there was a debate on it, voted against Article 1.5. I then asked Mr Ferrer - he is still in time to answer me - why the Government sent us this bill with Article 1.5 breaking the consensus of Article 7bis still in force in the previous legislature. Why? What is the reason for moving from consensus to dissent when there was a very important agreement in this area between the large parliamentary groups? He didn't answer me. Today he will surely say that the Civil Guard has a military character. If we already know and we have not proposed that I stop having it. It has nothing to do with it, but its internal mode of operation does not have to be identical to that of the Armed Forces. And above all, why is that agreement of the previous legislature not maintained in this one? Why does the government break it and change that general rule? Another big question, a mystery: why did you vote yes to Article 7bis in the previous legislature, because you agreed to this article to change it now? Not content with this, the Senate has adopted an amendment on Article 1.5 itself, an amendment on the Government's amendment; that is, they have amended themselves and in the Senate the Government has amended what it has brought here - because it does not seem hard enough, it is known - and what is coming now, what we are going to vote on this afternoon, is an amendment of the People's Party adopted in the Senate in which it is still more rejected, the application of the Military Penal Code to the Civil Guard is further tightened and leaves virtually no room for the non-application of the Code, practically in all circumstances the Military Penal Code will be applied, practically in all cases, except some that are clearly statistically minority. And I'm going to ask you the same thing again: why did they make that turn in the Senate about what came out here? Why do they do that? What has happened in a month so that you want to change your own Congress text in the Senate? What pressures have there been for them to do so and, if there have been such pressures, what have there been for such a surprising and surprising change to further harden the application of the Military Criminal Code to the Civil Guard? Perhaps in the background there is perhaps a compensatory element, perhaps. Since the deprivation of liberty has disappeared as a sanction in the disciplinary regime, we are going to raise it to the penal regime; since we cannot deprive it of liberty by disciplinary means because the sanctions of arrest have disappeared, we are going to increase the capacity to deprive it of liberty by criminal means; compensation or, better, an imbalance that makes no sense, because it would logically have been to accompany that philosophy with an adaptation and modulation of the application of the Military Penal Code to the Civil Guard. What they have done has been to further denaturalize the Civil Guard, to denaturalize it from its essential function, which is to preserve freedoms and rights and to guarantee citizen security. Basically, what is here is the expression of an authoritarian drift from the Ministry of the Interior, which has sponsored this change; an authoritarian drift that we have suffered in this legislature, especially in the last sections of it: Private Security Act, Citizen Security Act - the so-called gag law - and this very article 1.5 which further expands the cases of application of the Military Criminal Code to the Civil Guard. A maneuver, Minister, very clumsy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u142	Mr. López Garrido, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u143	I'm done. A very clumsy maneuver, devoid of political meaning, lacking, if I may, political fineness, because this article 1.5 has the days counted. This article will change when the Government changes because it has broken the consensus, and that is what seems to me to be a clumsiness from the Government's point of view in this matter that must be looked at with a sense of state. There was already a consensus and you break it arbitrarily or capriciously, absurdly. In short, Madam President, the People's Group, the Government, has broken the consensus reached in the previous legislature on the application of the Military Criminal Code to the Civil Guard. We are convinced that we will rule in the next legislature and we will restore that consensus. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. López Garrido. For the People's Group, Mr Ferrer has the floor. I would like to thank the interveners who stick to time because of the agenda and the time it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today the amendments introduced by the Senate in the Organic Law of the Military Penal Code, which are exclusively concerned with one subject, come to this House. In order to give concrete expression, I will tell you that the issue before you is not whether or not the Civil Guard is subject to military criminal law, but to what extent it is. I am already telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not agree and this is obviously a problem, because in a country that built its way to democracy around the word consensus to the point of identifying the good policies with those that adhere to this concept, disagreement, the disparity of criteria has very bad press and worse image. However, that is, ladies and gentlemen, an opinion that I do not share, because consensus and dissent are the two sides of the same coin; the discrepancy is as legitimate and healthy for democracy as compromise is and, if I am in a hurry, it is the logical result of coexistence in this Chamber of disparate ideologies, which is the very essence of the parliamentary system. Having said that, I would like to convey to you my concern, which is that this will be the last debate we will have on the Military Penal Code; therefore, the last image that will be stuck in our retinas, and with this we could convey the feeling that there is a deep disagreement within this House regarding the Military Criminal Law, and nothing would be further from reality. For months we have negotiated to the point of exhaustion, and I would like to thank the spokesmen of the Socialist Party for their efforts in this regard. The consensus reached covers practically the whole of the law, with the exception of a single article, precisely the one that has been amended in the Senate. The result of this effort, ladies and gentlemen, the impulse of the Minister of Defence, has given rise to the most advanced Military Penal Code in the countries of our environment. It has been reduced to half by promoting its subsidiary character in relation to the Common Penal Code and yes, some types have been increased, Don Álvaro, and I will tell you which ones. Military jurisdiction had been reformed by transferring the appointment of military judges to the General Council of the Judiciary, which enshrined its independence. The prevention and punishment of violations of international humanitarian law has been included. The obligations arising from the ratification of the Statute of the International Criminal Court have been assumed. New criminal figures have been added for the criminal protection of the exercise of the rights and freedoms of the military. Sexual harassment, attacks on privacy, personal dignity and at work, and any kind of discriminatory act, have been criminalized. Conditions for the enforcement of sentences have also been improved, and a long time and so on. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very broad consensus, and the Organic Law of the Military Penal Code is the daughter of that agreement supported by the majority of this House. Now, as I was telling you, we disagree in an article, one that defines the extent to which this penal code applies to members of the Civil Guard. Let me address two issues in this regard. First, it has been said that the People's Parliamentary Group has amended itself in the Senate, has amended the text submitted by the Government. Right, no doubt. But, in our view, that text has improved, it has contributed decisively to clarifying and completing its wording, and therefore the cases of application of this regulation to the members of the well-deserved institution, which in our view avoids confusion and contributes to legal certainty. But it has not done so in a whimsical manner, ladies and gentlemen, the new wording is better suited to the will of the legislator expressed in the third and fourth preambular paragraphs of the law, but above all it reflects and strictly adheres to the interpretation of the former Article 7bis by the Fifth Chamber and the Conflict Chamber of the Supreme Court, which in its repeated jurisprudence states that the Military Criminal Code must be applied at all times to members of the Civil Guard when they carry out acts affecting the legal assets of the Castrian order, mainly rooted in discipline, hierarchical relationship, internal unity and cohesion or the performance of functions and the fulfilment of essential duties which cannot be regulated in the police services. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental debate on this issue, and we cannot ignore the fact that a good number of the members of this august House claim that the Civil Guard loses its status as a military corps, loses its military character. Some would do so by royal decree from today to tomorrow and others are more likely to strip the institute gradually of all the characteristics and attributes that give it its military status until the matter falls as ripe fruit. In the subconscious or in the imaginary of one and the other lies the idea that the military character of the Civil Guard is an anomaly, an old Spanish singularity, something like the combs. Hard of what? Authoritarian regimes and dictatorships of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a big mistake. Bodies that combine military and police status are a thing of these times, they are known as gendarmerie bodies and are so of these times that they are being empowered by all countries, including Spain, that have them. It does not constitute any anomaly, it does not constitute any Spanish singularity. A look at the nearest neighborhood allows us to observe analogous bodies, identical, in Portugal, France or Italy, and all serve fully and deeply democratic regimes and have their origin in them, as in the case of the Civil Guard. In fact, the only difference I see is that, in my modest opinion, the Civil Guard is the best gendarmerie body in the world. Do you know why in Italy or France you do not intend to withdraw the military character from the Gendarmerie or the Carabinieri? Precisely because, as in the case of the Civil Guard, his status as a military corps is in his own raison d'être, is his own raison d'être. It would make no sense to separate two police organizations that were exactly the same. Therefore, if these bodies were to lose their military character, they would be immediately absorbed by their corresponding police officers in each country and would simply disappear, which seems to be the goal of some. I will end by asking you the same questions as I asked you in June, and I will do so, ladies and gentlemen, because I consider them the fundamental question and because I am convinced that if you answer them with your hand in your heart today we will not have this debate. First, do you honestly believe that the citizens of this country want the Civil Guard to disappear? Do you think that is a majority sentiment among the people of our country? Are you really convinced that the civilian guards want the disappearance of your body? And, finally, do you think that we would be serving our country by depriving the state of an instrument like the Civil Guard? I beg you to answer them. Avoid prejudice, do it honestly and honestly, and you'll see how soon we're done with this discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Ferrer. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 39/2007 OF 19 NOVEMBER ON THE MILITARY CARRIAGE. [[File number 121/000124]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u147	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill amending Act 39/2007 of 19 November 2007 on the Military Career. The Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy has the floor, Mrs Lozano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Soon again. My group simply wishes to underline in the conclusion of the processing of this law something that we have repeatedly repeated throughout the debate and that the most valuable asset that our Armed Forces have is not their armament, it is not their facilities, it is their men and their women, and not because of the extreme sacrifice that we all know can lead them to render their services in the Armed Forces, but even because of the small daily sacrifices that simply mean a transfer by an immediate need for service and, therefore, a forced separation from the family. Finally, thousands of small things that when we talk closely to the men and women who are part of our armies, are much better known. Precisely because they are that valuable asset and because this Military Career Act is the one that affects them most directly in terms of their professional dreams, expectations and legitimate ambitions of having a career within the Administration and in particular within the Armed Forces, it is because we think that it had to have been done with special care, with special attention and even with special, I would say, dear, because it is the law that allows them or not to plan with certainty and with a minimum of predictability a career that, like other careers of the Administration, such as judicial or diplomatic careers, must have that predictability, since, in contrast to a job performed in the private enterprise, there is agreement that remuneration is lower but stability is greater. This did not happen when the previous law was reformed, in 2007, which did not put all the interest and all the care that should be put, and this has been recognized in the work of the subcommittee and the Commission by the Members who were here at the time. That law created numerous grievances, has been the source of thousands of resources, particularly of the non-commissioned officers, who are particularly affected by the changes introduced in that law and, in short, has caused immense frustration. With the continuing work that has been done, first, through the Sub-Committee on Defence and, then, in the Commission, where we have been listening to highly-accredited representatives regarding the problems currently presented by the law and the reforms that have to be done, we thought that it would be possible to respond to all these frustrations, but unfortunately it has not been so. Regrettably, the main problems raised by the law have been left unresolved. It was a priority to resolve it, as I said, for them, for the men and women who work in our Armed Forces, but also for all the others, because a country that does not have functioning institutions, solvent public institutions, whose bodies of officials do not work in good conditions of motivation, incentives, etc., is a country that cannot be strong and modern. That is why we thought it was a magnificent opportunity to improve the working conditions of the military. That's not how it happened. Nor has the passage of the law by the Senate changed the original bill in any way, and my group will therefore vote against these amendments again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the Parliamentary Group of IU, ICV-EUiA, CHA: The Plural Left, Mr Sanz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Military Career Act is coming back from the Senate today, and with this procedure we are consummating what we could well call the chronicle of a disillusionment announced. Ladies and gentlemen, today, as much as it is intended here to transfer public opinion, workers, men and women of the Armed Forces, what is being done is to correct and remedy the grievances arising from the transitional regime of the law so far in force, the truth is that that is not true, and it is not true because it is not possible, since in the drafting of this law, which today brings here the professional right to a military career, which should have been one of the key elements governing the debate, has not existed. On the contrary, what we have had once again is a law exclusively drafted and oriented from the point of view of defence needs, which, on the other hand, we have also demanded in many cases to put on the table and to debate. Moreover, as we have already said in the previous point, it is a law subject to the same lack of objectivity and taxivity as other laws cooked by this ministry and which we have already seen throughout the legislature. Therefore, the result cannot be anything other than one more of the same, one more of the same bitter, Minister, a loss of the opportunity to provide a legal framework in conditions for the personnel of the Armed Forces, a legal framework with modernity, justice and the rights of a professional army of the twenty-first century. Mr Minister, elements such as the excessive abuse of the regulatory figure, which has never been developed or which, if developed, develops in an opaque manner and without any participation, or the refusal to address issues such as the arbitrariness involved in maintaining the system of assessments for promotion or discretion that characterizes IPECs show that this ministry continues to consider that in the field of defence, discretion and lack of objectivity are consistential. Look, to show you a button, Minister. Do you know how many references to regulatory developments appear in the current law, how many things are unsolved and refer to regulatory developments? Exactly seventy-seven, fifty-five of them related to personnel issues and nineteen related to military education issues. Do you know how many regulations have been processed from those seventy-seven references? Only thirty-three: twelve related to personnel matters and twenty-one related to military education matters. What does this mean? For this means that the vagueness of the norm is grass paid for its lack of objectivity. It is indecent that basic career issues remain pending regulatory developments and these developments are never completed. Minister: Mr Romanones has been left behind. You make the law, but then you don't make the regulations and, as I told you, pasture for arbitrariness and pasture for defencelessness, which is really going to carry this law along. Because it is similar to the previous one and because it will once again be an inexhaustible source of disappointment, frustration and litigation. Just like the previous one, exactly the same. What happened to the previous one? That has provoked thousands and thousands of appeals in the courts, and with this law we are going to reproduce the same thing again. But the most regrettable thing is the irresponsibility involved in not responding to the problems that have been identified once they have been heard. And I will also refer here to the work of the study subcommittee which was set up precisely for this purpose. The work of this subcommission has been of no use, it has been of no use for what has been unanimously expressed by the professional associations of the Armed Forces Staff Council, it has been of no use for the messages given by the Military Life Observatory, because what is to be approved here today has gone from something else. It was not based on the work of that subcommittee or on the conclusions of the parliamentary groups, it was based on its ministry, the Ministry of Defence, which had preferred to make some very slight modifications which really did not change and which did not satisfy anyone in depth and which perpetuated the problems precisely so that nothing changed. Our position is obviously to reject the whole rule because there are many issues that remain unresolved or that remain in limbo again. There are very few changes that can have a positive effect - then I will talk about the amendments that we are discussing today - but the fundamental problems are still there: what is going to happen to the IPECs, what is going to happen to the assessments, what is going to happen to the unrenewed commitments, to the military troops of troops and navy and to those who are waiting for unemployment in principle, to whom they were promised an internal promotion and for the moment their only internal promotion is the street, what is going to happen to the system of protection of the personnel of the Armed Forces, how are they going to solve the problems that are undoubtedly going to generate the duality that it entails, and the grievances that it is going to carry, that some military personnel are subject to the general social security regime and others to the regime of the Armed Forces itself. What's up with the NCOs? What about officers with truncated careers? All these issues have not been resolved, there were concrete proposals for a solution, and you did not want to take them up. This law aggravates these issues. It is true that on some specific issue that is presented in the proposals that will then be voted on the position of our group will be favourable because they modify or propose minimal progress that could have positive effects. However, we would like to highlight an issue that concerns us and refers to the situation of victims of abuse, harassment or sexual assault. We consider from the Plural Left that the victim's right to request a transfer obviously must exist, of course, but we believe that the rule should guarantee and prevail that it is, in this case, the victim who must leave the unit. And that is not reflected in the text, nor is it reflected in the technical amendment which makes reference to this particular issue. It is a question of approach and philosophy and it is a question that we are also defending in the debate that is now taking place on the protocol to act in cases of harassment within the Armed Forces and, therefore, it is a position that leads us again to vote negatively because we believe that the unshared philosophy - which you maintain - is not the right philosophy. In short, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a law which does not respond to the Armed Forces we want and which calls into question, Minister, that the Government is concerned about the people who make up them and who work in them, which are obviously, from this rostrum, the central and fundamental element of the Spanish State's Armed Forces. Of course, The Plural Left cares about these people. We consider that they deserve a decent career and this law does not guarantee it. As we said in the previous debate, we are convinced that in a few months you will leave the Government and we will be able to address the debate on a new law of military career, a law that, considering security and defence, does not forget the people who make it possible and your right to a decent career. In that debate this has to be the central element and not as it has happened with this law that they will pass today. The law that we have to pass must be made from dialogue and not like this, from imposition, a law that adapts to the new reality, to that new society and that serves to promote, as it cannot otherwise be, an alternative model of defence. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. For the Convergence and Unity Group, Mr Guillaumes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u152	Thank you, Madam President. The same can be said of this law as of the previous one, which has improved some things. The gender perspective is incorporated, which is very well, and there is also an element of recognition of rights and freedoms that is appreciated for having been incorporated into the norm. Now, said this, little more can be said in favour. It's a missed opportunity. The previous legislation, if we look at its contentious impact, was a small disaster. If my numbers aren't bad, it generated about 10,000 court proceedings of injured personnel and collectives. Let's not talk about the SGAE collective or the complement officers - someone has said it here - some people who by definition have a university career and are in a fringe within the army that is not saturated, could continue within the profession, but are forced to leave at a very difficult age to join the labour market. They are paid a certain salary and against all logic - a business logic, Minister - this collective that is needed, that is formed and that if you are told that you are also going to pay a significant part of your salary, you do not take advantage of it and you are left out, trying to look for a job, unless you want to live on what is left of your salary, at a very difficult professional age. Frankly, you don't understand. Why don't you take advantage of the army's assets right now? We could also talk in general about qualified staff. What does Zaragoza Academy have that makes it so exclusive? Why can't they have access to certain promotions, I don't mean by antiquity anymore, what was called chusquero, quite the contrary, people who have several careers, who have careers of absolutely essential utility for the army at this time, people who have masters, postgraduates, etc.? All this will serve nothing beyond a limit if you have not been to the Academy of Zaragoza, beyond a limit you will not be able to ascend. It doesn't make sense. Why don't you take advantage of it? What company does not take advantage of the quality of the people within the organization? The existence of a monopoly makes no sense. We always talk about trained people who've earned it. We therefore believe that excellence is not taken advantage of in this law and that groups that are right are not recognized. This we understand makes no sense. Why has this law been made if in the end it has not solved most of the problems it had to solve? We were waiting for this procedure, as in the law we discussed earlier. Mr Xuclà, spokesman for the Defence Commission, has an expression that defines him very graphically. He says that parliamentary hope is the last thing that is lost and lost when the Senate's amendments arrive. That is no more or less what has happened to us with the previous law and this one. Minister, we expected more. I ended up like I started. I insist that there are two substantial improvements - knowledge of law and gender perspective - but otherwise I have to repeat my last sentence of the previous law debate, it is a great missed opportunity. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Rodríguez Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group to establish a position on the amendments introduced in the Senate to the bill amending the Military Career Act. Before analyzing the changes introduced, it is appropriate to go back a bit and remember where the origin, scope and objective of this partial reform of the Military Career Act is, which today ends its process. This law originates from the mandate that was included in a final provision - the twelfth - of the Armed Forces Rights and Duties Act adopted in September 2011. It called for the Government to amend the issues covered by the transitional period of the Military Career Act, following the advice of the Defence Commission. In particular, it called for the analysis of issues such as promotion and change of scale, promotion regime, seniority, transition to reserve status, academic recognition, as well as the situation of staff on disability retirement. The first thing to note, therefore, is that we are dealing with a partial reform of the Military Career Act, which is confined to the transitional regime of the law and whose purpose is to correct certain dysfunctions detected in the application of the law and to give concrete expression to other aspects in the light of the experience of these years. A subcommission was set up within the Defence Commission to draw up the preliminary opinion provided for in the Act, where various appearances were held. Today, I would like again to acknowledge and thank the work that has been done and, in particular, the contributions of professional associations, experts, collectives, entities representing persons with disabilities, members of army headquarters and those responsible for the Ministry of Defence. As is well known, in our view the initial text of the opinion fell far short of the expectations of many groups and the Socialist Group itself. That is why we tabled a particular vote with twelve points with proposals which we thought should be included in that opinion. Finally, a more reasonable agreement could be reached in the final opinion that was adopted. Well, on the basis of that opinion and the proposals of our particular vote, we have drawn up the amendments that we have tried to incorporate into the draft law submitted by the Government. All these proposals have been made in the interests of the collectives and people affected by the transitional regime, but also taking into account the needs of the armies, the defence and the proper development of the Military Career Act. We have tried to do so as we try to address all the issues relating to defence: with the utmost responsibility and the utmost rigour. One point to remember is that an important part of the problems that led to the adoption of the Military Career Act are related to amendments that were adopted in this House for the transitional regime of the law that the previous Government referred. I would like to say with this in mind that in such complex matters as the military personnel regime and the development of the military career, it is first and foremost appropriate to increase prudence and measure the impact of what is proposed. Turning now to the amendments that come from the Senate, most of them relate to issues that had already been agreed in Congress and that were not included in the final opinion by omission or error. Some duplications have also been removed, such as in the case of honorary jobs, and some technical reforms or improvements have been incorporated that do not substantially alter what has been agreed in this House, with which there is no change of view or reason for the change of view by the Socialist Group. However, I do think it is appropriate in this process of finalizing the law, to refresh some of the changes that have been introduced in the draft law thanks to the amendments that we have tabled from the Socialist Group and from other groups and that have been negotiated with the People's Group in the process of Congress. First, we have strengthened our commitment to the internal promotion of the shift in the scale of non-commissioned officers. Our objective was to have a reserve of 20 per cent places for non-commissioned officers of the new officers' places. In any case, there is a clear mandate for internal promotion, in addition to something important, the Military Life Observatory will have to report on the implementation of these aspects. That is, we will know whether the processes of promotion of non-commissioned officers are working properly and whether there are difficulties in any army. There is no doubt that from the Socialist Group we will push all the necessary measures to ensure that these avenues of promotion work. On the other hand, through our amendments, we have managed to extend and introduce more favourable conditions for military personnel who are on reserve in application of the sixth, seventh and eighth transitional provisions of the Military Career Act. In the case of the seventh, which affects the non-commissioned officers, the criterion has been unified so that the pass to reserve and the promotion to lieutenant is at fifty-eight and fifty-six years, as the case may be, so that they do not suffer any hardship or loss of trienniums or passive rights even if they have remained in service longer. The award of the honorary promotion has also been expanded for those officers and non-commissioned officers who retire due to insufficient psychophysical conditions, although it has not occurred in an act of service. A provision has been included for the development of something referred to above, the regulation of second specialties of military personnel, which is important for the non-commissioned officers, for the career of the non-commissioned officer, but also for other cases, for example for staff with limitations, so that they can continue to operate within the Armed Forces. With regard to the military complements, an amendment had been introduced that promoted the ways in which they could remain in the Armed Forces in order to make better use of their experience and knowledge. Finally, since it has been mentioned in this rostrum, I would like to refer to a block of amendments which, although they did not specifically refer to the transitional arrangements, we did find it essential to introduce them. These are proposals concerning the prevention and prosecution of cases of harassment, abuse or sexual assault that contribute to and complement changes to the new disciplinary regime and the reform of the Military Penal Code. I'm going to refer to them. Section 101 of the Military Career Act has been amended to strengthen the protection of potential victims of these abuses, so that when the complaint is admitted or a disciplinary case is initiated, a change of unit may be requested. Article 92 has also been amended so that promotion assessment processes should report on the procedural status of the persons assessed. Finally, we have amended article 111 of the Military Career Act, so that an urgent procedure will be established by regulation to suspend military personnel in cases of allegations of harassment, abuse or sexual assault. I believe, Mr Sanz, that measures have been introduced and that they are incorporated into the law. We understand that these changes, together with the protocol for the prevention of sexual harassment and care for the victims of the Armed Forces, Minister - which we hope they will approve as soon as possible - as well as those amendments to the disciplinary regime of the Military Penal Code, are positive changes. We hope that they will serve to prevent, prevent and prosecute with complete force all crimes of harassment within the Armed Forces. For all these reasons, for all these changes that I have tried to summarize, my group is satisfied with the outcome of the process of law. Are we totally satisfied? Perhaps not entirely satisfied; we would have liked, among other things, to have included a provision on multiannual programming of places. We would also have liked to see strengthened mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring the evaluation processes and the personal reporting processes of military personnel. We would also have liked more concrete action on the issues of promotion of military personnel, as I have already pointed out, and we would have been more in line if mention had been made of the equalization of the CNI officers in relation to the rest of their colleagues in matters affecting the transition to the reserve. Finally, we would have liked this information process on the promotion of non-commissioned officers to have been incorporated into the Act on the Rights and Duties of Members of the Armed Forces and would not have become a mere additional provision of this Act. This is all part of the negotiation and we are aware of the majority in the House. Despite all this, I insist, we believe that significant progress has been made in the transitional regime, which was the subject of the law, with regard to the initial draft that the Government referred. That said, the job doesn't end here. We are aware of the work of modernization and transformation of the Armed Forces that have made governments of different signs since the recovery of democracy, with a clear objective: that our country has modern armies capable of securing our defence and our security. These are changes and transformations that we value positively, but we also know that it is necessary to continue in that process, that things remain to be done. In this spirit we have tried to contribute to this partial improvement of the Military Career Act and will continue to address as many reforms as necessary in the future. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. For the People's Group, Mrs Navarro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our military, whether it rains from the top or the sun burns, are willing to go out and play their lives 3,000 kilometres from their homes without receiving much explanation. I will also tell you that when bombs rain from the sky, not water, and when around you what you are listening to is the whistle of the bullets, at that time the only thing you can do is to tighten your teeth and get out of the hole; and if the thing goes well, you will have an enamelled cross, but if the thing goes wrong, the cross will be made of wood. [[Applauds]] Therefore, and leaving aside the vocation, the call of duty and patriotism, there is only one mechanism to compensate them, which is nothing more or less than promotion, promotion and, ultimately, military career. After a long and hard journey, this law of the Senate returns to complete its processing here with the incorporation of the amendments approved in the Upper House. For this reason, it is fair to thank the efforts and eagerness of the political groups to achieve a result that seeks to prolong and improve the adverse effects generated by the Military Race Act 39/2007. As has been said on numerous occasions, after many avatars, because of the complexity and high degree of controversy that occurred both among the military groups and between the opposition, the parliamentarians who handled it in 2007 stated that they had received a huge number of mails and requests for meetings from persons affected by this law. The difficulty of processing is clear from the fact that it took a year from the bill's inception until it was finally passed, and in this case thirty thousand contentious-administrative resources were generated. There is no need for great mental brilliance to know that it was not very popular among its recipients and neither did it seem to us a satisfactory law. That law was born, in our opinion, without having matured the necessary to come to an end. It lacked the necessary study and reflection for such an arid and important matter, possibly motivated by the excessive legislative zeal on the part of the PSOE in matters relating to the Armed Forces, especially with the desire to change what was done in previous legislatures. This law was the third that decisively influenced the career expectations of members of the Armed Forces in just over fifteen years. This 2007 rule generated uncertainty, mistrust and professional disorientation, as well as insecurity and frustration among members of the Armed Forces and also among those who intended to be. Three years after the entry into force and given the disastrous nature of this law, the People's Group, taking advantage of the processing of Organic Law 9/2011, on the rights and duties of members of the Armed Forces, to which the spokesman of the Socialist Group referred, made it a condition that it should include a six-month period in which the Government would refer to the Congress of Deputies a draft law for the reform of the transitional regime of the Military Career Act, for which the Commission for the Defence of Congress should issue an opinion on a preliminary basis that would address the different elements of the transitional period of the law. But the dissolution of the General Courts prevented this change from taking place within the required time frame, while the economic crisis and the risk of intervention of Spain made this priority a second place, so the creation of a subcommission for the reform of the transitional regime of the Military Career Act was delayed until November 2012. The subcommission's work was very hard. The sessions were expanded several times, so that we could hear - as has already been said in this rostrum - all the parties involved and have the best possible visions. The final report of the subcommission was approved by the Defence Commission on 9 September 2014 by a large majority. Although initially the People's Group intended to amend Law 39/2007 of the Military Race, the time that this law had been in force, which was almost seven years, led to the fact that if it were finally decided to draw up a new one, it could fall into the same defects that it had fallen into in 2007. At the same time, the rights acquired during these seven years in force threatened to cause another 30,000 disputes, and if the law was changed, it did not guarantee that the 30,000 previous disputes that already existed would be resolved. The threat of chaos in the Armed Forces, as well as the need to give professional stability to the military, has led the People's Group to take the decision not to draft a new law, but to modify the existing one in those main points and in those areas where it was obliged to do so by the mandate of Organic Law 9/2011. In this regard, efforts have been made to reach the maximum consensus, both in the drafting of the draft law and in the previous meetings of the subcommission. I take this opportunity to thank the groups for their effectiveness and also for the great effort that has been made, which has resulted in a bill to reform the Military Career Act, which I insist, although it does not solve all the problems created or all the injustices that could arise from the emergence of the said Act, it does bring important improvements, as has already been said in this rostrum. But I will insist that it is very important that we have made a battery of measures to support victims of sexual harassment, a subject on which all groups are particularly aware; that military personnel are effectively linked to retirees in special circumstances through their voluntary assignment to the Armed Forces, allowing them to achieve successive honorary promotions with special consideration for the act of service; that retired non-commissioned officers who are unable to avail themselves of the tenth additional provision of the Military Career Act are allowed to do so; that the conditions for promotion as they move to the reserve situation, adjusting them in accordance with the experience of implementation since the entry into force of the law both of officers and of non-commissioned officers; that the deadline for fulfilling the requirement of more than thirty-three years since entry into the Armed Forces for the voluntary transition to the reserve is extended by two years for certain bodies and scales, and that the ambiguity of the previous text is clarified. Access to the permanent status of the complement military is facilitated. Staff who went directly to the retirement situation without going through the reserve situation are granted an honorary job, provided that, when they moved to retirement, they had twenty years of service since becoming a professional soldier and, in any case, for those who did so in the course of their service. It is also worth noting the recovery of casualties in training centres, the assessment of merits in training processes, the need for specialization on the basis of certain jobs, the need to regulate regularly aspects related to assessments and procedures for the transition to the situation of suspension of duties, the provision of destination and commissions in exceptional circumstances, the unification of criteria in the resolutions of resources related to psychophysical conditions files, the system of calculation of periods of casualties, the moment of acquisition of the status of military troop and navy. However, ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate once again that we are aware that many things are still outstanding; that there are problems to be solved, that there are just concerns and that they have not been satisfied. Many of these issues can be resolved through management, which is the third step to which we are committed, and we will continue with the work that allows us to comply with those claims that, being fair and reasonable, did not require their inclusion in the legal text. But today we can say that we have fulfilled the legal mandate by collecting the Organic Law 9/2011, on the rights and duties of members of the Armed Forces, as well as the objective pursued, which is nothing but a positive result for the military and for our Armed Forces. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- The Minister of Defence, Morenes Eulate, asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs Navarro. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak only to thank you for the work you have done over this time. I know that consensus has not been possible in everything, but in what has been possible I would especially like to thank you today. And, if I may, I would also like to thank the teams of the ministry itself and all those who have intervened, because this which we are debating today, both the Military Penal Code and the Military Career Act, are two key aspects for our institution of the Armed Forces. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u159	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u160	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector. Mr Olabarría has the floor on behalf of the Basque Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. With regard to these Senate amendments, which put an end to the legislative iter of another important bill, we have to quote Jöel de Rosnay again. We have quoted him in the debate on the Criminal Prosecution Act and we have to quote again his reflections on what he calls with relevance and lucid political fluidity, political fluidity. In his reinterpretation here in the Congress of the Deputies Don Cayo Lara has redefined it as liquid politics, that is, politics without foundations, without requirements, without solidity and without acceptance of the requirements of the dogma of the legal order. Unfortunately, we have to be very critical of this bill. On the part of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress - I don't see any minister, although surely there will be a person who will reply to me and then quote me - it is usually done very often or with recurrence manifestly false invocations. It is often said that we live in the most centralized state in the European Union. Formally, ours can be a centralized State and the Constitution provides for and enshrines the operative principle, in Title VIII, which distributes powers between the autonomous communities and the State, articles 148 and 149, but this is merely a formal and moreover false invocation. The degradation of the autonomous process has been of such magnitude and through so many instruments that we really live in an almost unitary and highly centralized State. What are the procedures? Multiple. Such as disorbiting the bases of the State, when the State has the competence to dictate the bases of the legislative development powers of the autonomous communities. To overstate the framework legislation of the State when it can correlate the legislative powers of the autonomous communities. Overwhelming the possibilities of intervention of what is called high State inspection, which, being a meta-legal concept, nevertheless works very efficiently to cut down on competences. To detract from the narrow meta-legal concept of the general guiding principles of the economy; concepts that are not part of the legal system but are para-legal, such as budgetary stability, by virtue of rules of stability imposed by the European Union that are not a source of law but nevertheless correlate and reduce the competence of the autonomous communities. And the CORA, Madam President. CORA is the true exterminator angel of the device principle that configures the legal order. Everything that has been born and is the son of the CORA constitutes a competitive invasion and a reduction of the competitive acquis attributed by the Spanish Constitution itself and its statutes of autonomy, ultimately by the block of constitutionality, to the autonomous communities. We see this with particular brutality or with particular clarity, by using a more forensic parliamentary expression, in this law. This law, with regard to the CORA and the requirements of the configuration of a legal regime for public administrations, does not refer to the public administrations over which this institution, the General Courts of the State, could be competent, the State public administrations and their corporate bodies, their institutional bodies, their organs or corporations governed by public law, semi-public law and their public societies, but also to the autonomous communities, and does so even in violation of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. The jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court - I am referring to the amendment number 107 of our group in the Senate to article 49 - is the true paradigm and clarifies what happens with a law of these characteristics. The amendment does not deny that the State, through article 149.1.18 (a) of the Constitution, has exclusive powers to determine the basis for the functioning of public administrations, not the basis for the capacity of the autonomous public administrations to set up institutional bodies, but their functioning. In fact, and reproducing the expression of the Constitutional Court in its foundation No. 13, Legal basis for public administrations, we must remember that in its organizational and operational aspects all public administrations must accept what the State dictates in order to determine, if not exclusively, principles which must be developed by the autonomous communities and which guarantee the unity or equality of citizens and the functioning of the administrations throughout the Spanish State. However, the Constitutional Court itself has refuted this jurisdictional criterion which it confers on the State in respect of the legal regime of public administrations in relation to its capacity to establish basic principles and rules on the organizational aspects and functioning of all public administrations, with other subsequent judgments, in particular Judgement 49/1988, 225/1993, 197/1996 and others, whose legal bases it might cite, Madam President, stating the following: The State may establish the common normative denominator that encloses the bases and from which each autonomous community with legislative development powers can regulate the matter according to its peculiarities and interests, but it cannot do so with such a degree of detail and in such a complete or complete way that it practically prevents the adoption by the autonomous communities of its own policies in this field by exercising its legislative development powers. This is what happens with this law, Madam President. The determination of the bases of the State in terms of the organization and functioning of public administrations, so finished, so prolific and so developed that the normative competence that the Spanish Constitution itself confers on the autonomous communities, remains empty of content, is completely sterilized. And since in this law everything is inspired by this disturbing principle of constitutional jurisprudence - see, a group like ours that is a reference of authority is using constitutional jurisprudence - we will vote negatively on all the amendments tabled by the Senate in relation to this bill. There are other issues that deserve to be considered, although I will do so more briefly than the previous time, Madam President. Why and on what basis should agreements between the Autonomous Communities and each other or with the State be referred to the Senate for assessment and evaluation? But aren't we almost all in agreement here that the Senate is a second reading chamber and that perhaps the best thing to do with it is its political amortization? Are we going to assign you such relevant powers as the evaluation and regulatory control of agreements signed between the Autonomous Communities? [[The Lord]] This, of course, deserves much deeper reflection than the mandate contained in this bill. Finally, we are going to ask for something that is recurrent and that we always ask that we have the opportunity to do so, which is the amendment of articles 23 to 25 of the current Lofage, of Law 6/1997. In short, what are we asking? The disappearance of the delegations of the Government and the sub-delegates. It makes no sense at this point in history that there is an overlap of competent bodies, some State delegates for the powers that the State has not transferred, and others that hold the high representation of the State by virtue of an attribution of a constitutional character. The delegate of the Government is provided for in the Constitution, it is true - article 154 - but the role of ordinary representative of the State in each autonomous community is also assigned to its president - to the lehendakari, to the president, to whom it results by virtue of the relevant denomination - who is the president of that autonomous community, article 152.1 of the Spanish Constitution and in the case of Euskadi, article 33.2 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country. Moreover, the nature of the facts has already made it relevant to avoid duplication - and this is the role of the CORA - that in a system such as that of the Spanish State, which is increasingly operating under territorial conferences, sectoral conferences between the political leaders of the autonomous communities and of the General Administration of the State, these figures, those of the delegate of the Government and the deputy delegate of the Government, are losing increasing legal relevance and are only causing, if possible, distortions and dysfunctions in order to articulate the policies corresponding to each other. From this perspective, and on the basis of these two amendments and some more technical in nature in relation to the configuration of the notice and in relation to the incorporation into the laws of norms with normative effect and other legal technical deficiencies that it would be very difficult to report, Mr President, I conclude here by expressing our profound criticism of a particularly intrusive law competitively, contradicting the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. You warned me the other day not to talk too much about the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u162	Now I have to tell you not to talk about anything because you've already wasted your time and it looks like there's an attempt to get us through quickly.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u163	Our semiotic relationship has already reached levels that are difficult to overcome and I understand you perfectly, Mr President, but I would like to tell you that we are again quoting the liquid policy or the fluid policy and, as the most liquid and fluid policy of the Spanish State is the one emanating from the Constitutional Court, we have no hope and, rather, we have the suspicion that the Constitutional Court could with some ease and with certain opinions - and I will leave it there - modify its own jurisprudence on the configuration of the legal regime of public administrations. We are not autonomists, we are nationalists and we can be even, if I may say so, independentists, but we respect the rules and make an effort of pragmatism to respect the distribution of competences between the State of the autonomous communities, reinterpreted by the Constitutional Court but...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u164	Mr. Olabarria, I assure you, it's not about the content, but it's just...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u165	These are my last words, Mr. President. ... those who don't do this are you, and forgive me for telling you. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u166	Mr. Olabarría, thank you for sticking to the time. Mr Calduch has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time when this law was being processed, our group had reservations about its original wording, which we translated into a series of amendments, most of which did not succeed because they did not have the support of the People's Party. However, at the time we also support this bill precisely because we understood that, despite the shortcomings, it did have content that contributed to rationalizing the functioning of the public sector, which is lacking in this country. Yesterday, in an intervention I had in connection with the Labour and Participating Societies Act, I complained that the Senate had simply acted as a style corrector and, in that sense, the fundamental amendment that it was making really did not change anything about the law significantly. I thought it was the worst thing we could expect from the Senate, but no. In view of the amendments to this law, we have - I have to admit, to my surprise - had a worse role than to introduce amendments which further damaged the already questionable wording of the law. I will begin with the contradiction between the last paragraph of the preamble, which appears as amended, and the 17th final provision, paragraph 2, which appears as a new text. The last preambular paragraph states: Finally, progress can be made in the budgetary rigour of consortia, etc. And when we go to the 17th final provision, paragraph 2, what is literally said is: The consortia created by a unique law approved by the General Courts prior to the adoption of this law - which we are dealing with - will continue to be governed by their special legislation until the aforementioned regulatory adjustment takes place. That is to say, the consortia that are intended to rationalize with this law will continue to be regulated with the previous legislation without specifying any specific, specific time limit, in which those consortia created with the previous legislation - which comes to be modified by it in order to introduce rationality - will have to adapt within a certain time. If that is really moving forward in the budgetary rigour of the consortia, it is that I have the wrong legal concepts. The other part of the substantial amendments, because there are a lot of purely technical amendments, has to do with us finding ourselves again how the meaning of this law is distorted. For example, article 3.1(a), which specifies the scope of application of the law, the original version referred to the entities which, according to the law, comprise the Social Security Administration, and the amendment introduced by the Senate already refers only to mutual partners with Social Security; that is, that this is about the budgetary and functional rationality of the public sector, as far as social security is concerned, it should not apply to all social security, only to mutual partners. I believe that this is an example of an amendment which leaves the functioning of social security at its dawn when it comes to the application of this law. The same could be said with regard to the third additional provision, which in its original version referred to entities that were not considered contracting authority and, oh wonders!, by the intervention of the Senate, which are generally entities that do not have contracting authority, become entities that aim to promote the internationalization of the economy and the company. This second category may fall into the first category, but not the other way around. In short, our parliamentary group believes that the amendments that the Senate has substantially introduced - not the technical amendments -, far from having contributed to improving the law, have contributed to making it worse. Unfortunately, in addition to being an exceptionally expensive style corrector for the pocket of Spanish taxpayers, above when it doesn't correct style, it does it wrong. In spite of this, we will continue to think that if we have to choose between the greater evil of not having a law that rationalizes the public sector economically and functionally and this law, we will choose the lesser evil, that is, we will support the law despite the reservations that I have just pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. Mrs Castaño has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the amendments to all the draft laws on the legal regime of the public sector and on the common administrative procedure of public administrations were debated in this House at the end of June, we already indicated at that moment that we were faced with rules of special importance and that we felt that it was not appropriate to solve in a quick, simple and run-down reading a complex and clearly important articulation. Vanished desire. The approximately 208 amendments tabled in the process in Congress and the nearly 300 amendments in the Senate have been seen in a pen, without just having time to read them, and have been resolved with unusual speed. The text back to this House today for the debate on the eight amendments incorporated by the Senate. The Common Administrative Procedure Act has made an even faster journey and, if I am not mistaken, it has been definitively adopted and is only pending publication. Well, I am already telling you that our group, the Plural Left, is not going to support the amendments and is not going to do so because, of course, it does not change our assessment of the text obviously by those amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector regulates nothing more and nothing less than the bases of the internal functioning of each administration and the relations between them. In our view, therefore, it would have been essential, given that the Spanish State is, in the Constitutional Court's view, a composite State, referring to the particular design of the Constitution and the distribution of powers between the various constitutionally constituted territorial entities, it would have been essential that the drafting of this rule should have been based on respect for the different areas of competence, that dialogue between the different administrations should have been fostered and that consensus should have been sought with the various actors involved. Vana aspiration too. Unfortunately, it has not been so. The regulation of inter-administrative relations has been and is being done unilaterally. The rule, whose amendments are being debated today, limits the power of self-organisation of local administrations and especially of the autonomous administration. As an example, Title II, which covers not only the administrative but also the institutional areas of the autonomous communities, so that the project exhausts the margin of autonomous action, preventing the autonomous communities from taking measures that legitimately correspond to them in defence of their interests and in establishing their own organizational configuration policies. The expansion of the concept of basic regulation of the legal regime of public administrations permeates the entire project, enabling the intervention of the General Administration of the State over other administrations. Another reason for discrepancy, in relation to the text presented, is the regulation that is made of sectoral conferences, a regulation that, in our view, does not resolve the current deficit of these conferences and their ineffectiveness in channelling the participation of the autonomous communities in the formation of the will of the State in matters affecting them. In this plenary I think we have seen seven rules and this is the eighth. Surely the People's Group bench will be very proud of that. They already have seven more laws in their possession, or they will have within a few moments, seven bites in their buttocks, but don't be fooled because they already know that quantity is not synonymous with quality. It has been said many times over these days that this legislature is about to end and will certainly not be remembered by the quality of regulatory production. This legislature is probably to be remembered for the urgent and overrunning handling of matters, for the contempt of Parliament's work, for the disinterest, when not the contempt for the arguments of the contrary, for its absolute absence of dialogue, for its manifest inability to understand the rest of the groups and for its absolute loneliness. And they will also be remembered for their ability to cleave to truly serious and dangerous limits for coexistence in relations with the autonomous communities and for disregarding the work that has been done since the municipalities. In this sense, this law is more of the same. Therefore, they will not count on our support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castaño. Mrs Sayós has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u171	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I must say that today is a festival. It is not only a festival with regard to the previous items on the agenda, especially the first item on the amendment of the Constitutional Court, but it is also a festival at this point, with this bill regulating the legal regime of the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning the representative of the Group of the European People's Party was reluctant to express political arrogance towards an elected person when the item on the agenda to which I shall not refer was discussed. It seemed to me a total and absolute disrespect. Having said that, let us consider the draft law that is the subject of this debate. I must note that nothing has been resolved in the process of the Senate. The tics are still in writing. That which began to transform Law 30/1992 into a single text, ended by enacting two bills, the Law on the Public Sector Regime, which was the subject of this debate, and the Law on the Common Administrative Procedure. Gentlemen of the Government, I told you at the time and I repeat it to you again. Recycle your knowledge of law and apply to constitutional and administrative law. Why? I'm going to explain it to you differently from how my partner did it, Mr. Olabarría. You appeal to article 149.1.18 (a) of the Spanish Constitution as a legal basis for regulating the legal regime of public administrations, the principles and the system of responsibility of public administrations and the sanctioning power. Well, in its day, this Parliamentary Group on Democratic Convergence has already questioned the basic character of the text. Except for the preliminary title which, in nuances, could tend to that basic character to be regulated by the State, the rest of the article lacks that basic character, already then and now also. This rule goes beyond the basic principles and rules, from what are called bases of legal regime and notoriously invades autonomous competences, as well as violates the principle of local autonomy guaranteed by the European Charter. This is based on several rulings of the Constitutional Court. Yes, you have heard well, the Constitutional Court, that court that issues judgments and that you, when it is another body other than the State that must comply with them, evoke all its arsenal as if it were a criminal and, instead, when it is the other way around, when it is the State that fails to comply with them, whistles and looks elsewhere. Well, it's that court that's sadly in fashion, especially this morning. As I said to you, several Constitutional Court rulings have carried out a compendium of their own general doctrine on the scope and content of State powers on the basis of the legal regime of public administrations. I will quote only two: Judgement 130/2013 and Judgement 31/2010. These two judgments clearly establish the scope of the State's powers in these matters and do not comply with them today. We warned him in his day, but they have forgotten our amendments and those of my fellow Members from other parliamentary groups. In conclusion, with this law you do not modernize administration in general; on the contrary, you generate more uncertainty and legal uncertainty. With this law they go beyond the basic regulation that belongs to the State. With this law there is a clear invasion of autonomous and local competences, although we are not surprised, because we are already accustomed to these fears. This law imposes a number of obligations on both the regional and local administrations, but does not provide them with any funding system. This law allows the State to enlarge the General Administration of the State, while the other administrations, the autonomous and the local, are bearing the weight of the reduction of their public debt and part of the state public debt. I could continue with this law, with many others or with many other acts. That is why this Parliament's Convergence Group is going to vote against it. Therefore gentlemen of the PP, Mr Minister - even if I am not - and Mr Rajoy - neither - I am now the one who has the misunderstanding to say that you are arrogant politicians when it comes to legislating and throughout the legislative process. This law, or the multiple royal decrees laws, are a festival of it. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Outós. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Enrique Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing has happened in the Senate that changes the judgment that this bill deserved from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I explained it on his behalf in the full debate held in this plenary on 25 June and I also did so with my colleague and friend of many years ago, Manolo de la Rocha, in the debate in the Commission on 21 July. So I refer to what the corresponding 'Diaries of Sessions' reflect. I do have to remember that the process in Congress was backed up by merely cosmetic changes in its articulation, thus rejecting any substantive amendments from all groups. The fate that has followed in the Senate has been the same; it only returns this project to Congress because the Government has felt the need to exclude from the initial rigidity of the text some assumptions, especially in economic and budgetary matters, and it has also introduced some retouching with regard to the entry into force of some precepts which, by incorporating again issues outside the specifics of the law, introduce amendments in various laws such as the Competition Act, the General Subsidies Act and some others that thus escape the general rule of the draft that, as you know, delays its entry into force to a year in view of its publication. There is, therefore, no new relevance to the substance and much less acceptance of some approach formulated by the opposition. Although some of the amendments could be described as neutral, since they are not an organic law and therefore not subject to an overall vote, we can only do two things to express our appreciation: to vote against all the amendments incorporated in the Senate and to reiterate our position unequivocally against this reform. That's how we're gonna do it. There is probably someone who despises this view for understanding it conditioned for political reasons. The problem for those who think so is that our opinion coincided literally with that of the Council of State, that in its mandatory report on the draft held that - and I am opening quotes - this draft law on the legal regime of the public sector does not represent a positive step forward - I repeat, does not represent a positive step forward - with regard to the current regulation on the organization and functioning of public administrations. I cannot and do not need to reiterate the detailed arguments that justified and justify this negative vote today. I will confine myself to three reflections that I am particularly interested in. First. One of the most surprising developments in this project is that the legislative and regulatory activities of the Government are subject to two conditions: one, which has been re-critically criticized by the Council of State and which sees in it even risks of unconstitutionality, is that which subjects and conditions to a prior activity of the administration the exercise of the normative capacity that the Constitution recognizes directly to the Government; the other is that it obliges the Government to approve, on an annual basis, its regulatory programme for the following year, so that if it decides to adopt a rule not included in it, it will be obliged to justify beforehand the why and for what of its decision; justification that already some argue that it may be subject not only to political but also judicial control. I ask the question now: Why and why this rule, what do we gain, what risks we run, who benefits? Because of course the objective of this policy schedule is not planning. It is not because the plan has a caution, which in its case is a trap: decrees laws are excluded from the normative plan. I call it a trap because the government's legislative activity to this day, October 1, adds up to 236 rules with law rank published in the BOE, of which 83 - that is, 35.2 % - are decrees laws. What a percentage! There is no comparison with 17.3% of President González or 6.15% of President Aznar. I am not argued by anyone with the exceptionality of its current period, because, with regard to decree-laws on the total number of rules with the rank of law, they exceed by almost 10 points the percentage achieved by the Government of President Rodríguez Zapatero, although it had more than half of its mandate under adverse conditions. Second thought. Throughout the process of processing the law, as well as the Law on Administrative Procedure, no one from the Government or its group has spoken a single word to justify the brutal reform of the law of the Government; no one, not a word. The law of the Government is a 1997 law - I insist, 1997, and I don't need to be more explicit because everyone understands what I'm saying - and no one has done it. Consequently, there has been even less one who has explained why this draft changes the legal status applicable to the Presidency of the Government to date. At least in this you will understand that I am particularly fond and qualified to speak of the Presidency of the Government. I know something about it. What are they pursuing with this change? Have you measured the consequences of a precept such as article 57 of the draft that we are going to approve, which, under the heading - literal - The Ministries, begins by saying: The General Administration of the State is organized in the Presidency of the Government and in ministries? Will the Presidency of the Government be a new ministry or something else? They do not refer to it again in the rest of the article, so we do not know what all this means. Many years ago we distinguished what government and administration is. It is a healthy and essential administration. You have ended it without explaining, without justifying the objectives, without measuring the consequences. I ask you: has the Presidency of the Government been bureaucratized to see it as part of the General Administration of the State? The last reflection I want to do seems at first glance to be a reflection of method, but it is of substance and it is really the one that matters most to me. I will say this with force, but with bitterness: they have never had the slightest will to seek an agreement with the groups of the House on this bill, ever. They haven't made a fool of trying. There was no contact between the presentation of the draft and the beginning of its processing, no contact for the full debate, no real work in the paper and nothing in the Commission either. In a project like this, that attitude is in my opinion - I'm sorry - unforgivable. It is because this project, like his Siamese brother, concerning the common administrative procedure breaks the regulation maintained for twenty-three years - that is, by governments of three different presidents prior to Mariano Rajoy - no more or less than on how power is organized and how it is exercised. I am referring to concrete power, which affects citizens in their daily lives, in everyday life. It seems that this change, this situation, would merit an agreement that, as has happened during those twenty-three years, would allow beyond concrete reforms the bulk of the normative model on the organization and functioning of ordinary power to combine laws passed by governments of the opposite sign. This is to bet on stability, on dialogue, on integration. They didn't care about that meeting. It is not the only case in which they have resolutely sought confrontation or at least ignorance rather than agreement, but to do so within the scope of this project is to bet that the government that replaces its own, when this happens, will dismantle what we are going to approve today. It is not in my opinion the best way to govern or legislate or expose to the citizens the meaning of our work - we do, and it is hard sometimes - but this is only my criterion, as it is only his responsibility for this project. It remains for me to recall, as I did on 26 June, that the entry into force of this law in October 2016 will allow it to be repealed or a substantive amendment made. We will. We'll change it or we'll repeal it. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u174	Thank you very much, Mr Serrano. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the word doña Rosa Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u175	President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to end the legislature; a very complicated legislature, marked by the biggest economic and social crisis in Spanish democracy. The People's Party Government, supported by my parliamentary group, has bravely faced it, with hard and serious work, but above all with tremendous responsibility, driving a comprehensive package of unprecedented reforms, starting with the Budget and Financial Stability Act to put an end to imbalances and continuing with the labour market reform essential to put an end to what the Socialist Party Government has done, leaving 3.5 million unemployed in our country. Today, one of every two jobs created in the European Union is created in Spain. Today there are 17 million occupied. That's the reality. Alongside labour reform, we should remember the reforms that have fostered the competitiveness of our economy and the unity of the market. I would also like to recall the reform of the pension system, which is also part of this group of structural reforms that have guaranteed pensions for present and future generations. There is another group of reforms of important political importance, such as the Transparency and Good Government Act, which we have already in Spain for the first time today, which seeks the maximum control and exemplaryness in public action and has also affected the punishment of irregular behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the public administration could not be postponed. It was urgent to act because the strong imbalance in our public accounts had pushed us away from the deficit targets and placed us at the door of the rescue. Likewise, the lateness of the general government without liquidity left thousands of businesses in economic suffocation; some even had to close. To deal with this dramatic situation, it was necessary to take very difficult measures to save public expenditure and to resize its structure in order to adapt it to the real needs of the public administration. The Supplier Payment Fund was a very important star measure that meant paying nine million invoices for 261,000 suppliers. It also supported the territorial administrations, autonomous communities and municipalities that had accumulated invoices, which thanks to the Supplier Payment Fund could be paid; and, more importantly, the majority were health and education. In short, he saved our welfare state. These measures also introduced austerity that affected public employees. I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge his enormous professionalism and dedication that have undoubtedly been key to being in economic recovery today. The efforts made are already being returned to these public employees and civil servants. This very morning the Royal Decree-Law 10/2015 was debated in order to be able to return another part of the extra pay, which have already recovered for the most part and which will end up recovering next year. Ladies and gentlemen, only with modern, efficient, agile, transparent and economically sustainable public administrations that make full use of their capabilities and technological capabilities, that avoid duplication between administrations - which means so important - will we really be able to offer quality public services to citizens. I would like to stress the importance of the work carried out by the CORA; this very important X-ray of our public sector which has enabled us to promote more than 220 measures to simplify and, ultimately, to speed up the functioning of our public administration, reduce the burden on citizens and businesses, especially for the opening of new businesses, eliminate duplication and improve cooperation with the public administration. [[Commission for Public Administration Reform]] All of this has resulted in savings of more than EUR 29 billion and the abolition of 2,900 public entities. If savings are important, it is even more important to introduce a new model in the public administration that gives it an effective and modern new legal framework. This is precisely what this draft law on the legal regime of the public sector deals with, in addition to which new and important criteria of action are already incorporated for the administrative units; criteria that Spanish society is demanding today, such as transparency, citizen participation, planning and direction by objectives. With this bill, a fully electronic, zero-paper and interconnected public administration is involved. The creation of new bodies may only be made after verification that there are no other bodies. Transparency is increased by creating new public administrative registers, so that any citizen or company can know which public entities exist. The administrative structure is further streamlined and for the first time a system is established for the supervision, control, evaluation and extinction of public bodies. Information between administrations is improved to avoid duplication, to improve coordination. In short, it has an impact on greater control, on greater discipline of administrations in order to strengthen fiscal consolidation. Ladies and gentlemen, only more modern, more efficient and therefore more efficient administrations will be responding to the constitutional mandate and what the citizens are ultimately demanding of us. We are in the final phase of this bill with the introduction of the amendments that the Senate has made, which we consider to improve the law technically. Ladies and gentlemen, neither the Council of State nor the General Council of the Judiciary have seen any unconstitutionality in the law in their reports. The above-mentioned project is a very valuable tool to ensure that the Administration fulfils its obligations. We have heard old-fashioned topics from nationalist groups here. The State has sufficient jurisdiction to declare the parties to the dispute to be basic under article 148. With regard to the regulation of agreements or to greater control over agreements and consortia, these are recommendations which the Court of Auditors itself has made. We are therefore adding more elements to improve control and, therefore, all the information on these conventions. As I said, this project is a very valuable tool to make the lives of citizens easier, so that we can respond quickly and adequately to what we are being asked for. Let's not be wrong. Spain now has very positive economic forecasts, above 3%; we are in the middle of economic recovery. We need our country to consolidate this path of economic recovery. We must all be involved in this task; but, ladies and gentlemen, it gives the impression that some people do not want it to improve, do not want us to really follow the path of improving, in short, our country and the quality of our citizens. The aim of these reforms is not to repeat the problems we have seen in the past. I am therefore not surprised that the Socialist Group does not agree with this law which improves our administration. When they ruled, they destroyed the Administration; they left bills, deficit, lateness. That is the Socialist Party's endorsement of its management at the head of the administration. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is a good law and that it will make it possible for this country to continue in economic recovery and job creation, to become more competitive, to have better services, better administration, which are ultimately the priority objectives of the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u177	There is an opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, in particular the Headquarters Convention between the Kingdom of Spain and the World Tourism Organization, done at Madrid on 25 June 2015. I am told that on the part of the groups there is no request for intervention. I therefore ask the House whether we can give it for approval by assent. [[Consent]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u178	We turn to the point concerning opinions of committees on legislative initiatives, in particular the draft organic law on privileges and immunities of foreign States, international organizations based or based in Spain and international conferences and meetings held in Spain. In order to defend the amendments made, the Socialist Group, Mr Moscoso del Prado, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this law sets out the position before the Spanish courts of third countries, international organizations, conferences and meetings held in our territory, and also of heads of State and foreign ministers. It also provides for the immunity of warships and ships and aircraft from other States, as well as the Armed Forces belonging to other countries that are in Spain or transit through our territory in a transitory manner. It is a law that culminates in a legislative package that has taken place in this legislature and that has been promoted by the PP Government: the Law on Foreign Action, the Treaty Act, the Regulation of the Diplomatic Career and, in this case, this law, processed by the urgency procedure, without specifying that urgency - then I will return to it -. As you know, we initially tabled a return amendment, because we did not agree with either formal or substantive issues of this law, but we withdrew it because the Government, seeing that we were presenting it, called us. That call, produced and provoked by our return amendment, clearly demonstrates the will for dialogue and the legislative technique that this Government practices and that supports the majority group: no dialogue, no consultations, and if any group presents a return amendment, then it calls to speak. As with previous laws, the Foreign Action Act and the Treaty Act, a great opportunity has been missed to legislate allowing for greater participation of these Chambers in the design of this country's foreign policy. So we have a minister, Margallo, a legislator, but also a little dialogue minister or the roller minister, as my colleague, Mr Àlex Sáez Jubero, who is at the Council of Europe today in Strasbourg, would say. So we have tabled an amendment, we have withdrawn it and then in the Commission, seeing that the final draft included many of the recommendations made by both the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary, we have decided to support this law. This correction demonstrates the risk that is assumed when this Government legislates without consultation and without responding to the mandatory opinions claiming urgency when there is not, as it has done with other texts, such as the one we discussed this morning on the reform of the Constitutional Court. The need was dubious and there was no compelling cause for it to be forced to do so on an emergency basis. It is clear that there were justified reasons, for example, that the United Nations Convention on Immunities of 2 December 2004, as recognized by the Council of the Judiciary itself, is not in force and appears not to be in force for many years because only seventeen States have ratified it. That is why, as the Council recommended, once this treaty comes into force the law itself should provide for its withdrawal, and the Government has also included this. Again, there is a recommendation that improves the project and demonstrates the hastyness of doing so without taking into account the preceptive opinions from the outset. We have tabled a number of amendments, many of them technical ones, some of which I would like to highlight. Firstly, Amendment No 14, on which the Group of the European People's Party has submitted a compromise that we are going to accept. This is an amendment that seeks to distinguish immunity from jurisdiction from immunity from enforcement, so that the judges and courts of one State cannot be tried in another State and so that the trial for States and persons with that guarantee is not enforced. Although we accept this amendment, gentlemen of the PP, this compromise amendment does not contribute anything, since as the law establishes it can only regulate immunities in Spain and not in third countries. Therefore, you have good will, but your amendment contains no substance in the text of our initial amendment, so I move on to the next amendment. You also accept Amendment No 20, which is important but does not limit, as you also said, the permanence of responsibility, for acts prior to taking office, to criminal responsibility. We have another amendment, number 17, which requires that civil liability should not lapse when there are punishable offences; it is intended that when immunity occurs that does not mean that States cannot assume civil liability for crimes for which immunity has effect - this is an important issue. Amendment 18, which we keep alive, proposes to include the offences of terrorism and corruption as conduct that cannot fall under immunity for acts inherent in the exercise of its functions; terrorism and corruption, crimes that do not appear in the original text. I am also very interested in Amendment No 21, which would require that, if parliamentary control is accepted, decisions are taken to allow troops from non-NATO third countries to be in our country. We are not asking for ex ante parliamentary control but ex post and, of course, for important decisions on foreign policy and security policy, in order to go, as we have asked throughout the legislature, making progress in the democratization of foreign policy, something that has not happened with this government; we have retreated. With Amendment No 17, we propose the creation of a compensation fund, so that such civil compensations can take effect and be exercised when they take place. Finally, we introduce Amendment 24 on universal jurisdiction. This issue of universal justice is not just one of my group. Even the General Council of the Judiciary recommends that the absolute destruction that has been done in this area since the adoption of Law 1/2014 - I would like to recall the debate in this House on 16 December in which my colleague, Mrs Soraya Rodríguez, defended the urgent repeal of this reform - has placed us, as a country, in an unacceptable situation of backwardness in the fight against human rights violations and with impairment of universal jurisdiction. This must be corrected, because we are a country in which we can no longer speak of defending human rights, but of situations of impunity when very serious crimes are committed against humanity. The reform has placed our country in a worse position than the pre-democracy; crimes such as genocide, against humanity and against property and persons in the event of armed conflict can go unpunished because their persecution is severely limited. The same applies to crimes of gender-based violence, sexual integrity, trafficking, apart from those that affect minors with serious attacks on their integrity, such as genital mutilation, for which you have included a requirement of persecubility that makes it very difficult. Therefore, this amendment is fundamental and we very much regret that this legislation is not being used to rectify the very serious damage done with Law 1/2014. Finally, we are told that you accept Amendment 25, which would include in the explanatory statement that parliamentary control of external action should be strengthened; however, this amendment has no effect because in the only article in which such parliamentary control is introduced - Article 21 - you do not accept it. With this, it makes no sense to speak in the statement of reasons for strengthening parliamentary control and then in the law to forget about this issue. It's a toast to the sun; honestly, it's something very unserious. I'm finishing up. We therefore have a legislature with three laws that have taken three steps of the People's Group without the opposition and without just accepting amendments. We also have a universal justice reform that puts our country in a very committed international situation in the field of the defence of human rights and in very different situations, worse than we have traditionally been. We believe that it is approved by the urgent procedure, but it was neither the proper way nor the right time. I would also like to remind you that the violations of the legislation adopted in this legislature are permanent, for example, that of the Foreign Action Act. We have introduced an article in this law among all of us which provided for the ambassadors to appear before the Committee on Foreign Affairs in some cases. You have had a unique and unrepeatable opportunity to demonstrate your willingness to exercise parliamentary control over such appointments with that of the ambassador to the OECD, former Minister Wert; a political appointment that could have been the test of fire for your law. You have wasted your opportunity, and that law, without this appearance, has fallen into the sack of laws converted into wet paper. I assure you that in the next parliamentary term, ambassadors, whether political or not, will all pass through the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u180	Thank you very much, Mr Moscoso del Prado. Mrs Lozano has the floor to set her position on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u181	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as this draft organic law on privileges and immunities has finally been tabled, it is essentially technical in nature. Their gaps and shortcomings were identified in a timely manner by the advisory bodies and also adequately reflected for the most part in the draft law that was discussed in the Commission and that we are debating here today. This legal text does not reflect substantial changes in the application of the law in these cases of immunity and privilege of foreign States, but rather gives legal form to what has already been practiced by custom. Above all, it is a matter of having domestic legislation and having it ordered, since, obviously, judges so far could apply international treaties, international law. In fact, the Organic Law of the Judiciary and the Civil Prosecution Law contained such a reference to international law; however, the fact that we have domestic legislation seems to us to be positive and to facilitate that greater order, precision, concreteness and systematization of all these assumptions also seems to us to be positive. Whatever it is to bring clarity to the forest of laws always seems to us. From our point of view there are no substantial legal changes, however order is placed. Above all, it seems to us relevant, even if it may seem to be a smaller issue, that it should be easier for Spain to be the seat of international organizations and conferences, even if it is only by helping us to emerge from that ensimism that we sometimes have as a country, from that ensimism that presides at times at political debates when we worry too much about our little things instead of getting involved in that global world and in that interconnected world, which is the world in which we live and in which future generations will live much more than we do. I wanted to make reference in my group's general agreement with this law to some considerations made by these consultative bodies which have not been included in the text and which, from our point of view, should have been, particularly the observation of the Council of State respecting the armed forces of a non-NATO country, since the draft law states that such visits will be conditional on the signing of a specific agreement between the Spanish Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the country concerned, always speaking of non-NATO countries. It seems to us that leaving it in this sphere of generality, with this diffuse character, being a law that precisely tries to order, clarity and precision, contradicts the very spirit of the law and it would have been pertinent to specify the conditions of that visit in the text of the law. It also seems to us that the recommendation of the prosecution to define precisely the two immunities, that of jurisdiction and that of enforcement, should have been taken into account, as well as the definition of a State ship, which is a concept that is defined with impreciseness. This would improve the quality of the law and should have been included. Finally, I would also like to make explicit with regard to the various amendments that we will then vote on, the particular interest with which my group will vote in favour of the Socialist Group's amendment on universal jurisdiction. We know that this amendment is not going to go ahead, last year we had an intense debate in this House not only within the Chamber but also with civil society organisations in rooms outside this Chamber. It has been a matter of intense debate, my group has opposed that reform of universal jurisdiction, which drastically curtailed it and limited the scope by which Spanish judges and courts could act in the case of crimes against humanity, war crimes, genocide and serious human rights violations. We strongly opposed that reform and therefore recall it here again when we spoke of privileges and immunities of foreign States. Despite that reform last year, we believe that the vanguard role that our country has played internationally in the exercise of this universal jurisdiction does not end. We are confident that this can be changed and that Spain will once again have universal jurisdiction to the extent it has had and to the extent of the role it has played internationally. That is the commitment of my group and that is why we will continue to fight, apart from agreeing with the spirit and the general letter of this law, and we will therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u182	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lozano. For the Plural Left Group, Mr Nuet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u183	Thank you, President. This project has a long name, and I will repeat it because it is worth reading again. It is called the Organic Bill on Privileges and Impunity of Foreign States, International Organizations with Headquarters or Office in Spain, and International Conferences and Meetings held in Spain. When you've just read it, you're tired. I believe that the title says something; what comes to say is that we are faced with a number of institutions and a number of really complex situations, and some of the sectors I have mentioned at this time have already achieved consolidated international regulation, while others are still in a situation, we could say, of fragmentation and indeterminateness, in a certain legal limbo. What this project is really trying to do is to sort out the various existing initiatives and, above all, fill a series of gaps and situations that are not regulated today and that exist in a multiplicity of cases. For us there is also a very important article in this bill. You know that the arrest of General Augusto Pinochet for British justice in London on 17 October 1998 to initiate a process of extradition to Spain for war crimes and violations of fundamental rights marked a real milestone in what has been called the internationalization of criminal justice. It was a very specific situation of what we are now regulating: a head of State - in this case a former head of State - who visited a foreign country and found himself with a legal application based on the crimes claimed in his country of origin. Well, it is important that we enjoy an article 29 - and I say it with joy - because, no doubt, if an article of these characteristics were not in the law, it could not be voted on by my parliamentary group, and the spokesman for the Socialist Group referred to it in the past. What does this article say about international crimes? He said that the provisions of the present title would not affect Spain's international obligations with regard to the prosecution of international crimes. Therefore, although it is true, it is an excessively lax wording, we have considered it positive that it is at least present in the drafting of the law. It is also said that it will not affect Spain's commitments to the International Criminal Court. Therefore, we welcome regulation - we think it is positive - and we also welcome this exception without which we could not understand that people affected by international crimes could walk freely through our country, despite the many immunities they have in their legal status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. For the People's Group, Mr Beneyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this law of such a technical appearance, it is becoming a corollary to what has been a very complete legislative programme throughout this parliamentary term. It has been the legislative period in which more laws have been adopted in the field of Spanish foreign policy. In fact, the legislative framework in which the Spanish foreign policy will have to be moved from now on has been completely re-created: the Law on Foreign Action and Service of the State, the Treaty Act, the foreign action strategy, which is going to mean permanent control by this House over foreign policy, is progressing in the parliamentaryization of foreign policy in a very remarkable way, and today we bring to this House - the Government with the support of the People's Parliamentary Group - the law on immunities and jurisdiction. I would like to point out that all the legislative initiatives, all the activity carried out by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in this House, the activity carried out by the Government has always, absolutely always, been presided over by the idea of obtaining maximum consensus with the parliamentary groups. All the laws have been the subject of a thorough analysis and discussion with the parliamentary groups in this House; we have taken into account, where reasonably possible, the amendments tabled by the opposition groups and, again in this law, I am pleased that we can accept some of the Socialist Group's amendments - paragraphs 19, 20 and 25 - and that we can have a compromise amendment with paragraph 14, also tabled by the Socialist Group. The emergency procedure is simply for the law to be passed; it obviously has no other functionality. It is also very important to have heard, as it could not otherwise be, the mandatory opinions of the consultative bodies which, as has been pointed out by the spokespersons of the other groups, have had timely recognition and acceptance in the text finally presented. Let me briefly point out some of the main points of this law. It fills a gap in the Spanish legal system that to date contained a generic revision of international law and customary rules. It responds to the Constitutional Court's recommendation for greater legal certainty. It determines in a concrete way the position before the Spanish courts of foreign States, international organizations with offices or offices in Spain, international conferences and meetings to be held in our country, heads of State and Government and foreign ministers of other countries, warships and vessels and aircraft belonging to the State and armed forces belonging to another State that are located or transit through Spanish territory. Therefore, what it introduces is clarity, as it has always wanted and carried out this parliamentary group throughout this legislature; clarity, precision, accuracy, respect for international legality at all times, taking into account the conventions, primarily the United Nations Convention, which has not, however, entered into force, as it is known. The Government completed the normative framework on international law, improved legal certainty for citizens and facilitated the work of judges. It also improves the image of Spain as a country, following in this to other countries in our environment, with a clear, predictable and solvent legal framework, favoring the installation of offices and headquarters of international agencies and the collaboration of their Armed Forces with those of other countries. It should be borne in mind, as I pointed out, that there is no regulatory instrument governing the matter. There are only generic references to international law and customary rules that do not provide a satisfactory response and lead to dysfunctions in practice. The purpose of this law is to ensure full compliance with international law. It does not confer new privileges or immunities, but rather collects existing ones. The obligations acquired by Spain in the international sphere are incorporated into domestic law, incorporating the provisions of the 2004 United Nations Convention on Jurisdictional Immunities of States and Their Property, ratified by Spain but which has not entered into force; it must be ratified by thirty States and it does not appear to enter into force at an early date. It also includes everything that has not been legislated to date: immunities of the foreign State and its representatives, other immunities arising from the intensity of cooperation between countries such as visiting armed forces, international agencies, ships and aircraft, as well as international conferences and meetings. It regulates immunities between the Spanish courts, based on a clear doctrine: that the equals do not have jurisdiction over each other, par in parem non habet imperium, which applies both to jurisdiction and enforcement. This principle, well established in international law and derived from the sovereignty and sovereign equality of States, initially recognizes immunities in favour of States and has been extended to other subjects such as international organizations and international conferences and meetings. Logically, matters that are regulated by widely accepted international treaties to which Spain is a party, especially the two major international treaties on immunities, namely the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, remain outside the law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the codification in a single, systematic and coherent text of the legal regime for immunities will facilitate its correct application by Spanish legal operators and the fulfilment for Spain of its international obligations. The Government thus completes the normative framework in the area of international law to which they have referred to the principle, ensures certainty in the domestic jurisdictional sphere, is homologated with what has been achieved in other countries such as the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Australia and Japan, which already possess its law, and all this is done with full respect for international obligations and according to the approach estimated by the Constitutional Court. In short, it is a clear improvement in the image of Spain as an active State in international and legally secure, predictable and solvent matters, comparable to the most advanced States. Throughout the legislature, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government, which is supported by the People's Parliamentary Group, have only contributed to our country's systematic and efficient response to the more current development of international law. We have achieved a new legislative framework and have succeeded in consolidating a number of very key international relations for our country with key countries, such as the improvement of relations with the United States, the consolidation of excellent relations with Morocco, the privileged relationship with some Latin American countries such as the countries of the Pacific Alliance, the continuation of the opening up of the countries of South-East Asia with our improvement - the dual year showed - for example, relations with Japan, and our very active presence as members of the Permanent Council of the United Nations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this law puts the end to a legislature that has been characterized by great activity, a desire for consensus at all times and a clear achievement of results in the improvement of Spain's international relations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Beneyto. There has been an anomaly for which I am partly responsible. I thought that there was no representative of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unity who wanted to speak, and that is not the case. Therefore, Mr Guillaumes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u187	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to make it up to you soon. It is not a minor issue to regulate matters at the legal level because these regulations, as someone has said, already existed, but everything that has to do with international headquarters, diplomatic meetings, etc. must be brought to the legal level. Because the truth is that any country, any State has the legitimate desire to become the seat of international bodies, international meetings and international conferences and it generates a kind of, we could say, free competition in the worst sense of the word in this case; a free competition that consists in lowering very often the list of requirements in terms of diplomatic immunities, etc. Therefore, welcome is a law that can deprive any State of such temptations. We understand that the law already incorporated an improvement with the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation in all judicial matters that are pending between the Spanish State and the States that come to such an event. There are other issues that have been incorporated through the Council of State, partly through amendment, but we would have liked judicial notifications to be made between States, a clear determination - this is in part - of which person has diplomatic immunity or not, the identification - this would be important - of which assets of a foreign embassy or foreign State are likely to be embargoed, or, finally, when the State Advocate must act against a foreign representative or international body in a judicial process. In short, many things are regulated; before it was very dispersed and in rules without legislative rank. We understand that this is a great improvement and although it could be even better, it will certainly deserve our support, especially after the incorporation of the compromise amendments accepted in the Socialist Group. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes, for your briefness. I'm sorry I skipped it.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u189	The last item on the agenda is the agreement of the Equality Commission on the report adopted by the subcommittee on the analysis and study of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. We're going to perform a position-fixing shift, intervening in order of minor to major. They have five minutes each, but I ask all interveners to stick to the set time. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mrs Fernández Davila has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the Galego Nationalist Block abstained from the report adopted in the Committee on Equality for different reasons, which I will certainly - and I say for the time at my disposal - explain throughout my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a report which, from our point of view, was particularly necessary for dealing with a matter which is an excruciating and frightening crime, as the various representatives who came to this subcommission and whose presentations are briefly reflected in the above-mentioned report, and which also gives us the opportunity to access all the presentations that these representatives have made in the subcommission. For us, the presentation made by different people, some related to organizations that work directly with prostituted women, women who are victims of trafficking, people who act socially and humanitarianly, as well as those related to persons in the police or judicial sphere, has been of particular importance, because they have expressed with all cruelty the great difficulties they face in dealing with this serious problem in terms of the arrest of criminals, as well as the difficulties in being able to condemn them once they have been arrested. The cruelty with which the difficulties of women living in this underworld of slavery are shown indicates what is happening in our reality. The reality is that, in fact, we are talking about slavery in today's world, which has grown exponentially in the Spanish State in recent years. Although legislation on this has recently been enacted, it has not been enough. In fact, the reform contained in the Aliens Act has not shown that it can solve the problem, even in relation to expectations. If we refer to article 177 of the Criminal Code, it has not met expectations either. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about slavery, human trafficking, which is primarily directed at women and girls who then prostitute, making them live in a situation of sexual exploitation. This does not mean that we are forgetting other forms of trafficking in human beings, those related to labor slavery, begging, organ transplantation, etc. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal shared by most of the participants, which is the need for a comprehensive law, was particularly relevant to us. As we said, the reforms carried out did not have the positive effect that they were expected to have, and it is felt that there is a need for in-depth legislation in the various areas that are facing this very serious problem: the police, the judiciary, the social and humanitarian sectors. That is why many of the participants on this issue coincided. This is one of the reasons why we abstained in the report adopted in the subcommittee, because we did not understand, and so we put it in the debate, that the People's Parliamentary Group maintained such intransigence in relation to the incorporation into the report of different particular votes which presented groups such as The Plural Left, the Socialist Parliamentary Group or the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will also abstain in this report this afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u191	Mrs Fernández, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u192	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. Because while we believe that it briefly reflects the appearances of all those who have participated in this subcommission, we believe that it remains to be seen when it comes to the questions raised by the different parliamentary groups and that it seemed to us not only to be interesting but of great importance to deal with this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u194	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak very briefly from the bench because I believe that the most important things on this subject were dealt with and discussed in the subcommittee that was set up for this purpose. During the months we have worked on this subcommittee we have heard the views of many people, the experiences that have shown us experts from NGOs, institutional representatives, politicians and people who are referent in the social world. All of them have taught us many things and all of them have suggested many things to us. Following the work of this subcommittee, there are five conclusions which my group considers to be substantial. On the one hand, that trafficking in persons, trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation is a problem that we have in our streets, in our villages, we have at our door, it is not something alien, it is not something that comes from afar and happens to other people. It happens to us in our own house. Secondly, we need a law that regulates this matter, that once and for all we limit, define and fix what are the needs, what are the problems and legislate on this subject. Obviously, there will be very different opinions, but it is time to legislate this matter. Because, thirdly and as a result of this very thing, we cannot close our eyes to the issue of trafficking as a dissociated element of its ultimate goal, which is prostitution. Therefore, trafficking and prostitution are two closely linked elements that we must tackle, that we must resolve and decide what proposals we are making on this issue. Fourthly, we must also consider whether something can be done at source, that is, where such trafficking takes place, because these people come to the Spanish State from places of origin where we do not really know whether the police work, whether the services work, what is told, what is told to the people who are being treated and whether the authorities of those countries really cooperate or not. Finally, there are elements in the conclusions of this report that award actions to the General Administration of the State when many of them fall within the competence of the Autonomous Communities and this must be assessed because the competences in matters related to health, with the police, with the penal and judicial institutions, etc., also belong to the Autonomous Communities. It is therefore work that needs to be done. Furthermore, there are some issues that have not been taken into account, some very important ones that have been worked on, and my group is going to abstain from voting on this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u195	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. I also speak briefly from the seat. Indeed, we are faced with the slavery of the twenty-first century, a serious problem that the report reflects abundantly and faithfully. One of the issues he raises that is quite important to us is the need for a national trafficking law, a national trafficking plan that should be addressed without delay. We must not remain alone - although this report has been limited to that - with the issue of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, but open it up to a trafficking plan that addresses other important issues in the field of work. As my colleague has said, we cannot take the issue of trafficking alone and exclusively into account, but we must also address the problem of prostitution and deal with it courageously in order to regulate it in the way that it must be done. On all these issues my group will vote in favour of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u197	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. Mrs De las Heras has the floor for the Group of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. The first thing La Izquierda Plural wants to do is to reiterate the thanks to all the expert persons who appeared in the subcommittee, to the lawyer, to the chairman of the subcommittee and to all the Members we have participated in. By focusing the report resulting from the work of the subcommission of study on the problem of trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation as the most serious, cruel and deplorable expression of the commercialization of the bodies of women and girls, other forms of slavery covered by Directive 2011/36/EU, such as labour, forced marriage or organ trafficking, have been set aside. From our point of view, this has lost the opportunity to address with a holistic dimension the serious human rights attack involving trafficking in human beings with a clear gender perspective, which would contemplate the various aspects and purposes for which it is carried out. We cannot overlook the fact that the slavery of the twenty-first century is the result of this capitalist and patriarchal system, which is now financed and deindustrialized, which causes millions of people to try to flee their countries of origin, impoverished and in conflict, enabling many of them to end up in the areas of leisure and prostitution in Europe and the United States fundamentally. There is no aid that the Government has implemented the ESA 2010 Directive, which allows it to increase the gross domestic product with the benefits of prostitution and gambling. We are deeply sorry that none of this has been taken into account or intended to be included in the report through the particular votes that have been cast. We also regret that this report does not clearly and decisively address the need to work towards a comprehensive law on trafficking that will enable all types and dimensions of trafficking to be addressed, taking into account - I repeat - a human rights and gender perspective, while at the same time allowing budgetary stability. In this regard, we would like to note that the report calls for the development of a plan against trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, which has been introduced recently by the Government. Mr. Alonso has. Of course, it is very difficult not to qualify him as an electoralist, in addition to being totally unfulfilled economically, because the General Budgets of the State for 2016 only provide for a budget allocation of 2 billion euros compared to the 104 billion euros needed for the five years in which the plan is to be implemented; they account for it since 2015 and we are in the last quarter. In short, the efforts made during the time of the appearances and the work of the subcommission of study have not been used to gather forcefully a call to the Government to carry out the necessary legislative changes in certain aspects, such as the Criminal Code, the status of the victim of trafficking and the revision of universal jurisdiction. We understand that the legislative measures taken by the Government during this legislature are already de facto a serious impediment to both the interests of the victims and the prosecution of the crime. We must therefore consider this report as a timid and insufficient advance, which led to our abstention in the Committee, a abstention which we regrettably have to maintain today. [[Rumors]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u199	Thank you very much, ma'am. From the Heroes. For the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union, Mrs Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, today at the plenary session of this House we are discussing the report with the conclusions of the study on trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. At this point, I do not want to follow my speech without regret that the conclusions of another report, which have been very much worked on in the Committee on Equality, the conclusions of the report on conciliation, hourly rationalization and co-responsibility, have not had the opportunity to be debated - although two years ago it was drawn up - in the plenary of the House. We regret that the wish of many Members and of many groups in this House to be able to discuss in plenary the interesting and important work has not been fulfilled. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u201	I'm sorry, Mrs. Ciuro. Please be quiet so I can listen to Mrs. Ciuró. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. As I say, we are here today to discuss the report with conclusions on trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. On this point, I would like to thank all the experts who have come and the work of our lawyer, Mrs Mercedes Senen, who has been very patient and has helped us very much in the development process, as well as all the members of the subcommittee. The conclusions of these experts were in line with the fact that it is very important and necessary to have a comprehensive anti-trafficking law. While it is true that the tragedy of sexual exploitation exists and is very serious, the existence of other forms of trafficking that exploit people and therefore directly violate human rights is no less serious. We think it is very important that we can give the Government, as a result of the forthcoming elections, the recommendation that emerges from this subcommission in drafting a comprehensive anti-trafficking law. However, from our parliamentary group we cannot give a yes to this report, since our particular votes have not been taken, as we asked. We understood that it was necessary, for example, to respect competition. Without scrupulous and thorough competition, there is no effective fight against trafficking. We have passed the legislature by demanding respect for the competences that Catalonia has in the field and in order to be effective it is necessary for everyone to do his or her job. We are therefore in favour of maximum coordination, but against competitive usurpation. [[Rumors]] We also requested in the individual votes that the necessary resources be made available to adopt the various recommendations resulting from the report. Finally, since trafficking is inseparable from prostitution, our third particular vote stressed the need to make legal amendments to ensure that women and girls who are victims of sexual exploitation are protected under Law 1/2004 of 28 December on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence. These particular votes have unfortunately not been incorporated. We regret this and therefore cannot vote in favour of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ros has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, when we created this subcommittee, the Socialist Parliamentary Group said that it was an opportunity to address the last slavery of our time: sexual exploitation. We want to call for a comprehensive policy aimed at defending human rights with a gender-sensitive and age-sensitive reading in order to demand strong and decisive action from the Government and to continue the path opened up by socialists in previous legislatures. Trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation is one of the most cruel manifestations of gender inequality and violence. It is a violation of human rights that violates the freedom, integrity, health, life, security and dignity of persons. In addition, as all respondents said, there is a direct relationship between trafficking and prostitution. Most women who engage in prostitution are not prostitutes, but prostitutes, are slaves to whom they are sold as if they were an object. Ladies and gentlemen, this report by the subcommittee represents important progress. The first question posed by the Socialist Group to each participant was whether it considered a comprehensive anti-trafficking law necessary. The answer was blunt: yes. We are therefore pleased that the first recommendation is the need to draft a trafficking law, but we call for a comprehensive trafficking law against trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, with preventive mechanisms; a law that reinforces the ex officio prosecution of the crime, including pimping, even if permitted by the victim; a law that prevents sexual advertising and implements social protection and comprehensive recovery services and programmes for exploited persons. The report also reflects the Socialist Group's proposal to eliminate advertisements for prostitution, but we would have liked more courage and boldness, because all groups agree to move forward to eliminate advertising from prostitution. The report also addresses what to do with clients, because sexual exploitation cannot be stopped without ending demand. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must move on to the facts. For the Socialist Group there are limits that cannot be ignored and which the representatives have endorsed. That is why we are voting in particular on three points. Firstly, we call for prostitution not to be accounted for in GDP, because it is irrational and contradictory. Prostitution is a lucrative business controlled by international mafias who trade with women, weapons or drugs. Secondly, the report does not reflect our proposals for improving and protecting asylum and shelter. Thirdly, the recommendations of the respondents on the Universal Justice Act, which prevents the prosecution of transnational crimes in trafficking in human beings, are also not included. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group's priority is to end the sexual exploitation of women and girls, to end the networks, to end the mafia, to protect and assist the victims. Cooperation with countries of origin must be ensured and citizens must be made aware that trafficking was an illicit and cruel trade. On 12 December 2008, the Socialist Government adopted the Trafficking Plan, the first comprehensive instrument. It has been a starting point that pays particular attention to victims, the persecution of traffickers and awareness-raising campaigns. This plan was completed at the end of 2011. We have often asked the government to refer its assessment, assessment and conclusions to Parliament, and now that the legislature is over, the government is presenting the new plan. It is better late than never, but we doubt their credibility because of the delay of these four years and because there is no additional budget for their implementation in the first two years. They have spent the past legislature advancing plans that are only a curtain of electoral smoke. You say but you don't. The PP has said no to an amendment to the Socialist Group's budgets calling for EUR 1 million for the care of minors who are victims of trafficking. They close their eyes to an increasingly frequent problem, as the police, the prosecution and specialized organizations have reminded us in the subcommission. In three years the demand for girls has been triggered. Society must be made aware that buying prostitution services favours the mafia. Businesses that are established around sexual exploitation must be increasingly hampered, as the respondents have advised us. We cannot allow a significant number of women and girls to trample their rights and become commodities to benefit pimps and networks. That is why our efforts must go to combat sexual exploitation, to pursue these mafias and pimps, to promote the dignity of these women, to guarantee them alternatives and that all people living in Spain can live with autonomy and without domination. I'm done. The unity of all in order to act, a firm commitment against trafficking, is essential. The subcommission's report is a good start, but we must move forward and comply. We will not vote against it, but not in favour, because for the Socialists there are responsibilities which the Government has to carry out and which have not been included in this document. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Ros. Mrs Quintanilla has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the debate in the various parliamentary groups, today is an important day. On October 1, 1931, a woman obtained the right of women to vote. We're talking about Clara Campoamor. Therefore, although the debate may be sour at some point, we have to remember that today we are talking about women's rights, and today we are talking about women's equality. That is why this report is so important in the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. I would like, of course, to thank the non-governmental organizations that are with us this afternoon, and I have said so during the work of the subcommittee. [[Applauds]] Thanks for being here. Thank you for saving women victims of trafficking. Thank you for the work you do every day to get these women to break their chains with traffickers and mobsters who use women's bodies for their personal gain. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that some parliamentary groups have said that they are going to abstain in this report, you know that we have worked hard, you know that it is a rigorous report, you know that each of the parliamentary groups has made the best of themselves and that is why I would also like to thank all the parliamentary groups and also all those who have appeared in the Commission. This report was born with a cross-cutting approach and a gender approach. Trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation constitutes a form of violence against women as a result of social construction in both the countries of origin and the countries of destination and places women in an unequal position. Greater prevention and awareness-raising against trafficking must therefore be carried out. Today we have to talk about creepy data. Trafficking moves in the world $38 billion. In Spain it moves 1.8 billion euros and, moreover, we have become not only a transit country, as we were a few years ago, but also a destination country. Furthermore, we are talking about an international crime, a crime that clearly violates the human rights of women and girls, because today we have to talk about girls and minors. Throughout the work of the subcommittee we have seen how the participants have valued the work of the Government of Spain. The participants have appreciated all the work we have done over the years, not only with the Palermo Protocol but also with the Warsaw Convention. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs De las Heras and each of the people who preceded me in speaking, we have worked not only at the political level, but also at the legislative level. We have collected, because we had to do so, in the Organic Law on the Reform of the new Criminal Code in a stronger and stronger way the trafficking of human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation and we have more protected the victims through the Statute of the Victims of Crime and the numerous regulations and legislation that we have adopted in this legislature. Today we are joined by the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, and we have included in the plan of measures which are also included in this report. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. This report is serious, rigorous and establishes a trafficking law as the first point. Why do you not vote in favour of this report when we have a specific law on trafficking? We collect the greater coordination of the State Security Forces and the training of all legal operators; we protect minors in a special way; we provide, in the judicial sphere, greater protection for the victim of trafficking. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important debate. We are faced with a report that is beginning to take the first steps to continue working and combating trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, a difficult and difficult task given the physical and psychological devastation suffered by victims, women and girls. That is why I would ask you to vote in favour of this report which is beginning to bear fruit, the trafficking plan, the Statute of the Victims of Crime and so many amendments throughout this legislature. In addition, we are talking about continuing to work together, because that is what society demands, in a problem that is an international crime and where the victims are also women who came with the hope of a better world and have become sexual slaves.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u207	Mrs. Quintanilla, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u208	I'm done, Mr. President. To talk about this report is to talk about the need to protect equality, because when equality is broken there is trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. Today, with this report, the Spanish Parliament once again makes an unwavering defence of human rights, because to attack trafficking is to attack a form of slavery and a degrading and indignant scourge for the victims. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, vote on this report because we will be voting on the future of the thousands and thousands of victims of trafficking in Spain for the purpose of sexual exploitation. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintanilla. In a few minutes we started voting. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u210	We shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Doña Inmaculada Riera, I ask doña María Carmen Castellano i Fernández if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u211	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u212	Doña María Carmen Castellano i Fernández has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, I would like to make a statement that does not open a debate. This morning this Presidency expelled from the rostrum a Member who did not want to withdraw a gesture made in plenary on the 16th, a gesture which has deeply offended many Members. In view of the Member's unwillingness to withdraw the offence, once expelled from the rostrum and at the request of several parliamentary groups, I have asked the legal services of the House to consider possible additional measures. I hope and hope that such actions will not be repeated in this House again.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u213	We shall now proceed to the vote. First, the proposed Organic Law on the Reform of the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October, for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's resolutions as a guarantee of the rule of law. Amendment to all alternative text No 21, tabled by the Joint Group, Mr Tardà. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 plus 2 telematics votes, 312; 22; 279 plus 2 telematics votes, 281; abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u214	It's rejected. Amendment to all alternative text No 1 submitted by the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 plus 2 telematics votes, 312; in favour, 6; 299 plus 2 telematics votes, 301; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u215	It's rejected. Amendment to all alternative text number 37 submitted by the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence i d ́Unió. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 2 telematics votes, 313; in favour, 113; against, 187 plus 2 telematics votes, 189; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u216	It's rejected. We shall now vote on the amendments to the joint text. Amendments by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Sostres. Firstly, Amendment 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 2 against, 304 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u217	It's rejected. Amendment 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 2 against, 303 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u218	It's rejected. Amendments by Mrs Fernández Davila and Mrs Pérez Fernández. Firstly, Amendment 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 111 against, 187 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u219	It's rejected. I would like to restate the amendments tabled by Mrs Fernández Davila and Mrs Pérez Fernández. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour 123 against 187.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u220	They're rejected. Mr Tardà's amendments. Firstly, Amendment 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 126 against 187.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u221	It's rejected. Amendment 26. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 27 against, 181 abstentions, 102.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u222	It's rejected. The rest of Mr Tardà's amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 20 against, 281 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u223	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE Vasco Parliamentary Group'S AMENDMENTS, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 126 against 187; abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u224	They're rejected. Amendments to the Progressive Union and Democracy. Amendment 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 6 against, 297 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u225	It's rejected. Amendments 5 and 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 100 against, 207 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u226	They're rejected. Rest of UPyD amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 309 votes in favour, 7 against, 300 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u227	They're rejected. BLOCK VOTING OF THE Plural Left'S AMENDMENTS. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 314 votes in favour 125 against 189.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u228	They're rejected. Joint vote on the amendments tabled by the Catalan Group of Convergence and Union. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour, 125 against, 187 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u229	They're rejected. Amendment 17 by the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 313 votes in favour 126 against 186 abstentions 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u230	It's rejected. Amendment 30 of the Group of the European People's Party to the joint text. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 181 against, 128 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u231	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u232	Text of the proposed organic law. Overall vote on the proposal for an organic law to reform the Constitutional Court's Organic Law 2/1979 of 3 October, for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's resolutions as a guarantee of the rule of law, for being read in one reading and having the same organic character. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 313 plus 2 telematics votes, 315; in favour, 180 plus 1 telematics vote, 181; against, 132 plus 1 telematics vote, 133; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u233	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u234	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 10/2015 of 11 September, granting extraordinary credits and credit supplements in the State budget and adopting other measures in the field of public employment and economic stimulus. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 plus 2 telematics votes, 312; in favour, 282 plus 2 telematics votes, 284; against, 7; abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u235	It was adopted. We are now going to vote on the bill for the urgency procedure of this royal decree-law that we have just passed. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 309 plus 2 telematics votes, 311; in favour, 31 plus 1 telematics vote, 32; against, 183 plus 1 telematics vote, 184; abstentions, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u236	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u237	Let us now proceed with the Senate amendments. Third Sector of Social Action Bill. Block vote on all amendments that come from the Senate. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 282 against, 7 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u238	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u239	Voluntary Bill. We are going to vote in bloc on all the amendments from the Senate. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 197 against, 106 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u240	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u241	Labour and Participation Societies Bill. Block vote on all Senate amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 291 against, 13 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u242	They're approved. - DRAFT LAW ON REFORM OF LAW 1/2000, OF 7 ENERO, OF CIVIL JUDGMENT. [[File number 121/000133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u243	Bill to amend the Civil Prosecution Act 1/2000 of 7 January. Separate vote on the amendments. First, amendments to the single Article, paragraph 1, paragraph 7, paragraph 33, paragraph 49, paragraph 58, and paragraph 63, paragraph 2. [[Article 14.2]] [[Article 35]] [[Article 265]] [[Article 440.1]] [[Article 552.1]] [[new]] [[Article 660.1]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 308; in favour, 212; against, 96.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u244	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 2 [[Article 23]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 202 against, 104 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u245	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article (4), (3) and (6) and (3) and (6)a [[Article 26.2]] [[Article 276]] [[Article 276.1 and 2]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour 195 against 2 abstentions 111.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u246	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 28 [[Article 243]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 282 against, 11 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u247	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph fifty-fivea [[new]] [[Article 525.1.1a]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 283 against, 2 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u248	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs sixty-two bis and paragraph sixty-two ter [[new]] [[Article 648]] [[new]] [[Article 649]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 183 against, 102 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u249	They're approved. Amendments to the first additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 189 against, 113 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u250	They're approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 194 against, 95 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u251	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u252	Draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Act to speed up criminal justice and strengthen procedural guarantees. Amendments to the single Article, paragraphs 1 and 1a [[new]] [[Article 14]] [[Article 17]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes; 187 in favour; 102 against; 19 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u253	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 5 [[Article 324]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 210 against, 94 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u254	They're approved. Amendments to the single article, paragraph 7, as regards paragraph 4 of that article, to the expression 'for breach of law and for breach of form'. [[Article 792]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 9 against, 186 abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u255	They're rejected. Remaining amendments to the single Article, paragraph 7 [[Article 792]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 194 against, 1 abstentions, 112.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u256	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 8, in relation to Articles 803a(a) and 803a(f). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 183 against, 102 abstentions, 23.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u257	They're approved. Rest of amendments to the single Article, paragraph 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 202 against, 102 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u258	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 9, in relation to Articles 803b(d) and 803b(q). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 190 against, 95 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u259	They're approved. Rest of amendments to the single Article, paragraph 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 208 against, 94 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u260	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 11, Article 847. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 211 against, 3 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u261	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 12a [[new]] [[Article 889]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 191 abstentions, 114.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u262	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 14a and paragraph 15a [[new]] [[Article 985]] [[new]] [[new sixth additional provision]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes; 187 in favour; 96 against; 25 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u263	They're approved. Amendments to the single transitional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour 192, 95 against, 20 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u264	They're approved. Amendments to the preamble. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 308 votes in favour, 182 against, 107 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u265	They're approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 193 against, 98 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u266	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u267	Draft Organic Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act to strengthen procedural safeguards and regulate technological research measures. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 2 [[Article 282a]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 186 against, 95 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u268	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 3, as regards Article 509.1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 296 against, 1 abstention, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u269	They're approved. Rest of amendments to the single Article, paragraph three [[Article 509]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 281 against, 8 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u270	They're approved. Amendments to the fourth paragraph of the single Article [[Article 520]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 188 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u271	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 11 [[Article 579]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 281 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u272	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 12 The vote shall begin. [[Article 579a]] [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 196 against, 101 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u273	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 13 as regards Article 588a(b). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 191 against, 92 abstentions, 22.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u274	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 13 as regards Article 588a(k). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 303 votes in favour, 196 abstentions, 107.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u275	They're approved. Amendments to the single Article, paragraph 15; paragraph 19a and paragraph 20. [[new chapter VI]] [[new]] [[Article 967]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 304 votes in favour, 185 against, 98 abstentions, 21.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u276	They're approved. Amendments to the single transitional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 200 against, 1 abstention, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u277	They're approved. Amendments to the final provision first. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 200 against, 94 abstentions 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u278	They're approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 180 against, 94 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u279	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u280	Overall vote on the draft Organic Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act to strengthen procedural guarantees and regulate technological research measures, as being of the same organic nature. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 311 plus 2 telematics votes, 313; in favour, 183 plus 1 telematics vote, 184; against, 127 plus 1 telematics vote, 128; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u281	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u282	Draft Organic Law of the Military Penal Code. Separate vote on the amendments. Firstly, amendment to the single derogation provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour 181 against 22 abstentions 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u283	It's approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 305 votes in favour, 181 against, 115 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u284	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u285	Overall vote on the draft Organic Law of the Military Penal Code, for being of the same organic nature. There are two votes cast telematically. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 309 plus 2 telematics votes, 311; in favour, 183 plus 1 telematics vote, 184; against, 122 plus 1 telematics vote, 123; abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u286	It was adopted. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 39/2007 OF 19 NOVEMBER ON THE MILITARY CARRIAGE. [[File number 121/0001124]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u287	Senate amendments to the bill amending Act 39/2007 of 19 November 2007 on the military career. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 275 against, 14 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u288	It's approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 307 votes in favour, 284 against, 16 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u289	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u290	Senate amendments to the draft law on the legal regime of the public sector. Firstly, amendments to Article 87 and the third final provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310; 183; 117; 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u291	They're approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 310 votes in favour, 185 against, 124 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u292	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u293	Opinion on the draft Organic Law on Privileges and Immunities of Foreign States, international organizations based or based in Spain and international conferences and meetings held in Spain. Amendments by the Socialist Group. Amendments 19, 20 and 25. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 300 against, 1 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u294	They're approved. Transactional amendment to amendment 14. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 302 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u295	It's approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 107 against, 180 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u296	They're rejected. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 301 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u297	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u298	Overall vote on the draft Organic Law on Privileges and Immunities of Foreign States, international organizations with headquarters or office in Spain and international conferences and meetings held in Spain, as being of the same organic nature. There have been two votes cast telematically. The voting was as follows: 307 plus 2 telematics votes, 309; in favour, 300 plus 2 telematics votes, 302; against, 1; abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u299	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u300	Agreement of the Equality Commission, in connection with the report of the subcommission for the analysis and study of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. We shall vote on the Commission's opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 306 votes in favour, 277 abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-10-01-CD151001.u301	It was adopted. The meeting rose. It was seven and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
