ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u1	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u2	Questions addressed to the Government. Firstly, questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Rosa Díez, Member of the Parliamentary Group, Union Progreso y Democracia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u3	Thank you, President. The latest report of the International Monetary Fund on the Spanish economy ignores waste, ignores the insulting concentration of wealth, the growing differences in income distribution, the destruction of the middle class, the increase in poverty and inequality, and also calls for more taxes, less unemployment benefits, co-payment in health and education, less pensions and more ease to fire people. I ask you, Mr Rajoy, what recommendations from the International Monetary Fund will you take into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u4	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. The report of the International Monetary Fund which concerns our country and which we have met last week basically says three things. The first sets the growth forecast for Spain in the year we are, 2015, at 3.1; that is, we will grow, according to the International Monetary Fund, more than double the euro area average and more than the government's own forecast, which is 2.9. This is a very important fact because, as you know, we have been in negative economic growth for several years. Last year we grew 1.4 and, if this year we grew 3.1, it would certainly be a good thing. The second statement made by the International Monetary Fund is something that I do share, which is that reversing economic policy and the reforms that have been carried out can be a mistake and would affect the economic growth and job creation that is already taking place in our country. With regard to the third, the recommendations - which it makes to us as well as to the other countries on which it reports, that is to say to all - I have to say that they are those, recommendations. And they are only recommendations because Spain is a country that at a certain point knew how to avoid the rescue, if we were not in the same situation as other countries and that you know very well. We therefore read these recommendations carefully, because they sometimes say very reasonable things, but we fix our own road map, our own economic policy because we maintain our economic sovereignty, for the reasons I have said before, and that is what will take us this year to have a very important figure of economic growth and to have about 600,000 jobs created in our country, as we have said in the draft General Budgets of the State that we have presented here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u7	Indeed, Mr President, in relation to the statements of the International Monetary Fund, there are two parts: that of the reflection in which it recognizes that the growth of the Spanish economy, the recovery, is mainly due to exogenous factors, from change to our environment and above all to a very hard adjustment in jobs and wages. But I do not want to refer to that reflection, which we share - the adjustment of wages and jobs and external factors are fundamental when it comes to the recovery that began in 2014 - and what I want to refer to is precisely the recommendations, because our parliamentary group is afraid that you, of the recommendations, will choose the worst, the ones that are bad for the citizens. I ask you to choose from the recommendations some that are positive, that there are also positive ones, for example, to end the duality of the labour market, with what the International Monetary Fund calls inclusive growth. The fund - the same as Piketty, by the way, recently - defends the single indefinite contract, a good way to combat temporality since a very protective system, as you know, affects very few workers and condemns particularly young people to wait to an old age to benefit; a formula - that of the single indefinite contract - that involves a balance that avoids garbage contracts. There is another important recommendation: to support competitiveness and SMEs by eliminating all fiscal privileges, legal barriers, duplicate public spending and waste, something that this parliamentary group is also demanding, always with its position against. There is a third recommendation, which is also a positive recommendation that you could address: reducing over-indebtedness by demanding responsibility for past bad practices; for example, in the case of Bankia: yes, we have to rescue, but we have to demand responsibilities from those who behaved badly, those who are responsible for the crisis and, in addition, a real law that defends a second chance. That is just by quoting three of the recommendations made by the International Monetary Fund to you, to the Government of Spain, for the Spanish economy and which this parliamentary group has been asking here, in this House...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u8	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díez. Indeed, there are some things in which we can agree with the International Monetary Fund and with you and others in which we do not. I am already telling you that I am not going to raise taxes, on the contrary, I am going to lower them: the income and corporate tax has already been lowered in this year 2015, which affects 12 million taxpayers, and the average decrease of the IRPF is 8.07; in 2016 there will be another new decrease of the IRPF and corporate tax and we will study, if the level of collection permits, new tax reductions. I agree with what you and the International Monetary Fund say about SMEs and competitiveness; it has been very important and an inspiring principle of our government action and that is why jobs are being created in our country at a very good pace. I agree with the control of public expenditure, I also agree with the control of debt and, in general, with what I agree with is maintaining a reformist policy that has managed to overcome the crisis, although we still have a lot to do because the great goal is that at the end of the next parliamentary term there will be in Spain... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF CAYO LARA MOYA, OF IU'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, WHICH FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES IT HAVE FORWARD TO FOLLOW THE IMF'S LAST RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OUR COUNTRY? [[File number 180/001345]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u11	Question by Mr Cayo Lara, Member of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, today that the Government is going to reshape, we have put the questions to you easily, this is the same as the previous one: do you plan to follow the latest recommendations of the International Monetary Fund for our country? Let's face it, we haven't agreed.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u13	Thank you, Mr. Lara. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u14	Thank you for informing me that I am going to reshape the government, it is good to know every day of news, even by Mr Lara's mouth. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much. I also thank you for asking the question about the International Monetary Fund because it is a question about a matter that is certainly important to our country. I would say to you, to complete what I have told your colleague Mrs Díez, that we must distinguish between good economic policies, which are the ones that produce economic growth and generate employment, and others that do not. We have made an economic policy based on important structural reforms, such as labour reform, reform of the Budget Stability Act, reform of the financial system, energy reform, administration reform, market unit, the Entrepreneurs Act and Second Opportunity Act. There are many reforms and you know them well. And, secondly, a fiscal consolidation plan because it makes no sense or is possible, as is currently proving the history we are living, that it is spent above what is entered into a country. Those reforms that had been implemented had produced results, imbalances had been corrected, competitiveness in Spain had been improved, and the most important thing was that jobs were growing and being created at a very good pace. As I said to Mrs Díez, we must continue to work, we must continue to strive to maintain that policy, and what the International Monetary Fund is asking us to do is to maintain the reformist spirit. Then there are some concrete measures that, as I said to Mrs Díez, I can share and others I cannot. The important thing is that Spain, unlike other countries that made very wrong policies, maintains its economic sovereignty and can therefore make its own decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Lara.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u16	Mr Rajoy, we have two different views on the reforms. It seems that the International Monetary Fund has come to cable it in the electoral campaign, supporting precisely its reforms, reforms that, in our view, have only benefited capital at the cost of destroying quality jobs, lowering wages and increasing poverty. The International Monetary Fund recommends establishing a single contract, adjusting wages and working hours, facilitating the disengagement of agreements and raising excise duties and VAT, among others. These measures have once again been joined by the Bank of Spain in a servile and shameful manner, which also calls for a twist in labour reform, trade liberalization, transport and professional services. That is, they abound in the recipes that sink our economy, deteriorate workers' lives and increase inequality. The single contract with increasing compensation is an invitation to increase redundancies and does not resolve the high turnover of employment. He asks us for salary adjustment, when half the wages are less than 900 euros and one third of them are less than 648 euros, the minimum wage you have frozen. I asked him one day and I repeat today: could you live with 648 euros of salary? The disengagement of the agreements leaves the workers unprotected and breaks the collective bargaining. Increasing excise duties and VAT will only accentuate the tax injustice that is already among the highest in Europe. Mr Rajoy, the democratic and social way out of this crisis is not through the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund or the recommendations of a Bank of Spain at the service of the CEOE. Those are failed policies that have led us to the greatest economic and social disaster we have ever known in the history of our democracy. It is clear that the International Monetary Fund only seeks to raise the profits of capital and guarantee the payment of the debt to the international creditors it represents. There is a social exit to the crisis, a model with fair taxes, which avoids dismissal, generates stable employment and decent wages. That is the way, not the way, of the International Monetary Fund. Mr Rajoy, now that we are talking about radicalism, get off the mountain of the radicalism of the International Monetary Fund and govern the time left for the social majority of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Lara. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u18	I believe that these statements could be addressed to the International Monetary Fund, but not to the Government of Spain. The Government has an economic policy whose main objective was to overcome the crisis and now it is to grow and create jobs. Today I can say, and I think the whole House can be very pleased, that there are already more people in employment, less people in unemployment and more people affiliated with Social Security than when we arrived at the government, and that we are living in a very difficult situation in the years 2012 and 2013. But in 2014 and 2015, as a result of the policies we have implemented, it is already growing. This year - as we recalled before, we are going to be the fastest growing European Union country -, jobs are already being created - a million Spaniards will find a job between 2014 and 2015 - and, if we continue to persevere, in the coming years we can come to see how 20 million Spanish citizens can work. That is the policy we have pursued. On one occasion we agree with the International Monetary Fund, as we agree with you, and on other occasions we do not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF THE PEREZ-CASTEJON PEDRO SANCHEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES HE CONSIDER THAT THE STATEMENTS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE DO THE PP'S INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENCE EXERCISE CONSTITUTION? [[File number 180/001349]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u20	Question to the President of the Government by Mr Pedro Sánchez, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, I would like to know whether you consider the statements made by the President of Spanish Radio Television in this parliamentary seat to be appropriate, stating that you are a voter of the People's Party and will always remain a voter of the People's Party. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u22	Quiet, please. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u23	In Spain, as you know, there is ideological freedom, there is freedom of vote and there is freedom of expression and I suppose you will not pretend to take it from anyone, whoever that person is. And of course, referring to what the text of the question says, the opinions expressed by the Director-General do not affect at all the independence of the Spanish Television officials. [[Several Members: No, what's going on!]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u24	Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Rajoy, do not insult the intelligence of Members of this House. You have ruled alone and against everyone. [[Several Members: No!]] Yes, your Government has ruled against the Spanish Radio-television workers and the Spanish Radio-television information councils by liquidated the independence of that public body, Mr Rajoy. They have done the same with the educational community by legislating against it and imposing the Lomce, as they have done against women by cutting their freedoms in the last second of the leg of the legislature by amending the Law on Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy, as they have done with the workers by imposing a labor reform that has devalued their labour rights, and as they have done also, ladies and gentlemen, with all the Spaniards, at least against most of them, who, as they watched their taxes go up, adopted shameful amnestyes that could be welcomed by fellow members of the People's Party such as Mr. Rato or Mr. Bárcenas. Mr Rajoy, you have gained momentum by moving from the absolute majority to absolute loneliness, because you confuse institutional stability with putting at the service of your party the interests of each and every one of the institutions: of the Tax Agency before yesterday and of Spanish Broadcasting before yesterday. [[Rumors]] But we should not be surprised, Mr Rajoy, because you are the president who refuses to be accountable in this Parliament for the political corruption of your party, which directly affects you. [[Rumors]] And at the height of electoral rivalry, what you have done has been to threaten with the unilateral amendment of the Electoral Law to make a suit tailored to your electoral interests, Mr Rajoy. I mean, you're testing once again the exhaustion of your political project. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I do not know whether you this afternoon, Mr Rajoy, are going to change the government, if you are going to change it, if you are going to advance the elections or you are going to do both, to advance the elections and change the government, but I will say one thing: the Spaniards do not care or care because at this stage of the legislature the only change they are waiting for is theirs at the head of the government presidency following the general elections. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u26	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. I beg you all to remain silent, please. [[A honourable Member: There! Over there!]] Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u27	I do not know what change the Spaniards expect, but I have to say that the only change they do not expect is to return to the Government who generated 3,400,000 unemployed in Spain; the only change they do not expect is to return to the Government who left this country on the verge of bankruptcy; the only change they do not expect is to return once again to the Government; the only change they do not expect is to return to the Government those who made an economic policy that generated six years of negative growth and continued increase in unemployment in our country and that created the biggest economic crisis we have experienced in Spain since the return of democracy in 1977. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] [[Several Members: Come on, man!]] And, of course, the only change they do not expect in any way is that it can provoke a person who, after having said in all the forums to which he attended in the last months that he was never going to ally himself with extremist parties, radicals or at the orders of Venezuela has allyed himself with them throughout Spain and, jumping the democratic will of the Spaniards who in the big cities voted for the Popular Party, has given power to extremist groups that are already giving the spectacle that we are seeing at the City Hall of Madrid. [[Protests.-Applause.]] [[Several Members: There, there!-Other Members: Hala, man!-Rumors]] The responsible are not those councillors; the responsible is you, who have turned the Socialist Party into a radical, extremist, and far-flung left party. [[Several Members: Very well!]] You. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, applause, stood up.-Protests.-Mr. Elorza González shakes a white handkerchief]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Government. Mr. Elorza, I beg you to moderate yourself in your gestures. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO HERNANDO VERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT AND MINISTRY OF THE PRESIDENCY: DOES THE MEASURES THAT THE GOVERNMENT intends to adopt IN THE FINAL OF LEGISLATION CONSIDERABLE? [[File number 180/001350]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u29	Questions to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency. Mr Hernando, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, asked.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, I would like to ask you about the latest measures taken by the Government at this end of the parliamentary term and in particular the invitation to tender for six TDT licences, which the Government has called for with a six-month time limit. The final resolution coincides with the call for elections, four to eleven days just before the elections. I ask you whether such a broad resolution period has to do with the theory of the President of the Government that his party's election results are linked to the informational treatment that some televisions have made of the corruption that affects the People's Party. Thank you. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u32	Mr Hernando, of course it is reasonable to convene competitions in this country in accordance with the principles of transparency and free competition, especially when your Government approved them by royal decree and were annulled by the Supreme Court. [[Applauds]] Mr Hernando, we respect information plurality, free competition and transparency. [[Several Members: Well, well...]] We're taking reasonable steps, Mr. Hernando. What is not reasonable is what you ask and what your colleagues and your boss decide in this last leg of the legislature, as you have just seen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u33	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u34	Madam Vice-President, in the Economic Circle, the President of the Government recently said: 'The corruption and the continued hammering of all cases, especially on television' has hurt us. Mr Rajoy's reflection demonstrates his aversion to freedom of information, because with this contest you have put a gun to the chest of televisions. [[Several Members: Hala!-Protests]] , especially those televisions that have policy information programmes and programmes that criticize the People's Party or talk about the corruption of the People's Party. [[Rumors.-Mrs Fabra Fernández utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u35	Mrs. Fabra, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u36	You have told the televisions that, if from here to the general elections you behave well and do not criticize the People's Party, you may have one or two television channels. You have an obsession with the media and freedoms. Mr Montoro recently recalled the debt of the media and the Ministry of Justice threatened television if they broadcast images of accused persons. Solve this contest, do it soon and do it without sectarianism. I assure you that the poor results of the People's Party are not due to the information hammering on corruption in the People's Party, but to the very existence of corruption in the People's Party and, above all, to the hammering that its policies have brought on workers, families, women, pensioners or students. Those are the keys to their electoral debacle and not freedom of information. Just find out. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Hernando, one thing is that you deal with radicals and another thing is that you copy the language in this House, that is intolerable, Mr Hernando. I ask you as a spokesman to review the expressions you use, because you are looking more and more like those councillors who are supporting the municipalities, Mr Hernando. [[Several Members: Oh!-Applause]] Secondly, this Government is in compliance with the law and you cannot tell me that we do not respect information pluralism and freedom when we are in compliance with the law. We have not been overturned by a direct channel award from the Supreme Court, you have been overturned; you have made the worst audiovisual policy that has existed in this country. That's why, Mr. Hernando, I'm asking you to have a little more memory. And let him have a little more memory also when he talks about corruption, because as long as some gentlemen are still sitting in that seat, you have a problem, a problem that you are not willing to tackle more than by responsibilities to everyone else, Mr Hernando. By the way, you talk to your former boss to see what he thinks of that issue; he wouldn't mind if he cools off the conversations he had with me at some point. Finally, Mr Hernando, they left this country in ruin, this government has brought it forward; this country is going bankrupt, this government has brought it forward. In this country, two things will always be respected as long as it governs the People's Party: freedom of the press and free competition; legality. [[A Member of the Commission: You have very little left.]] Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u39	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u40	Heritage is the Reserve Fund! [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u41	Mrs López i Chamosa, to speak, that you should not, do so when you finish one question and before you start the other; that is the time. [[Laughter]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHEN THE GOVERNMENT IS TO RETURN THE DIFFERENT BANDERAS AND TEACHINGS TO DEMOCRATIC POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS [[EAJ-PNV]] Like their battles in the civil war and what happens to different museums and archives? [[File number 180/001331]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u42	Question to the Minister for Justice. Question posed by Mr Joseba Agirretxea, from the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Civil War, following the uprising of the army under the orders of General Franco, there were murders, torture, looting, expolios, expropriations, thefts and another series of violations of individual and collective rights. The Spanish army was the army that would eventually be established as the army of the State, so all those symbols, flags, belongings, etc., snatched from the side that defended the existing republican legality of political parties and trade unions of the time, including their battalions, were automatically incorporated as a booty of war to the Spanish heritage. You know that all this is an offense to your legitimate owners and shows a zero respect for memory. In order to remedy this unjust situation, Minister, I ask you when the government will return to its legitimate owners the different flags and teachings taken from democratic political organizations, as well as their battalions in the Civil War, which are found in different museums and state archives. I'd like you to give me a political response, a government-wide response and not just from your department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u45	Thank you, President. Mr Agirretxea, as Minister of Justice and also responsible for matters relating to historical memory and as a representative of this government, I reply to you that there is no political reason to prevent the return of the historical pieces to which you refer. It is not a problem of a political nature, Your Honor, it is a problem of a legal nature, it is a problem of respect for the rules we have. In this legislature, my colleagues from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Education have already responded to your honor by telling him that we are not talking about simple objects, we are talking about historical assets, we are talking about assets that make up the museum funds of the state of ownership either of the Ministry of Culture or of the Ministry of Defence. Therefore, these funds have the same treatment, deserve the same value and consideration as many other flags and badges originating either from the Civil War or from any of the conflicts that have existed throughout our history in Spain. Access to these funds is generally guaranteed, they are available to all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, the Historical Heritage Act tells us in its preamble that in a democratic State cultural property must be adequately protected, it must be properly placed at the service of all citizens, and this is ultimately the road to the freedom of peoples. That law was not made by a Government of the People's Party, but by a Government of the Socialist Party, and I very much agree with that preamble, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u46	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. There are injustices that will never be repaired, Minister, but at least have the dignity of having a minimally democratic behaviour. No legislation is necessary for the Government to return the seized. This ikurriña is in the Archive of Salamanca, its owner is the Basque Nationalist Party, and it is not donated, is not sold, nor is it left in usufruct; it is snatched in one of our headquarters, exactly that of Gautegiz de Arteaga; it puts it here, it is of the Batzoki of Gautegiz de Arteaga. [[Show an ikurriña]] What is the ikurriña of Gautegiz de Arteaga's batzoki doing in Salamanca? We have never known of its location until we have carried out a great investigation and learned of its existence and its location. How many more will you have in your power, and not only of the PNV, but of the UGT or the CNT, etc.? A lot more. It's ours and you have no right to hold it. Why is he there? How did you get there? Or is the Spanish State and its institutions, including the army, the legitimate heir of the one who snatched it? Can you imagine that in Germany or in an Italian museum the flags taken by the fascists were displayed? It's not the property of all Spaniards, as you say, it's the property of some... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u48	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, very particularly with this flag of the Batzoki of Gautegiz de Arteaga, which you mentioned, in 2008, the Government adopted a royal decree proposing a procedure for restitution or return. What happened, why didn't you ask? [[Protests.-Mr. Esteban Bravo: We told him we didn't know where he was. How are we going to order it?]] There's the procedure to get her back, and she didn't get it back.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u50	Mr. Esteban, I'm calling you to order.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u51	Your Honor, I understand your legitimate and reasonable interest in flags and other objects, which assured you that you receive no treatment other than the rest of the elements that make up the historical memory of this country, the collective memory of all Spaniards, who are available to all Spaniards. There have been possibilities, as was done with the return of the papers and documents of the lehendakari Aguirre, for their return in collaboration with the Ministry of Education. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo: What a charade! Applauds.- Mr. Count Bassen: A little respect, please.]] - It is possible the transfer of goods from the various national museums...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Esteban, I'm calling your attention because you're behaving amazingly. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo: It will be for something!]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GARZÓN SPINOSA ALBERTO, OF THE Parliamentary GROUP OF IU, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WHAT EFFECTS MAY THE NEW AGREEMENT WITH THE US HAVE IN OUR COUNTRY? ON THE BASIS OF DEATH? [[File number 180/001330]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u53	Question to the Minister for Defence, by Mr Alberto Garzón, Member of the Plural Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u54	Minister, what effect can the new agreement to be signed with the United States on the basis of Moron have on our country?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u55	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, in the bilateral order, the most important relationship for Spain in security and defence is, of course, the one we maintain with the United States of America. Therefore, and given that the new protocol amending the Convention on Cooperation in Defence between Spain and the United States updates, strengthens and narrows this relationship, its effects will undoubtedly be very positive for the security and defence of our country, of the United States and, above all, of the international community, of those countries with which we share values, interests and also, of course, threats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u57	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u58	Minister, this agreement does not meet the interests of Spain or Andalusia, the place where the base of Morón is located. For a long time, these bases have been and continue to be a deployment of large American companies that allow the rotating doors of former U.S. rulers and politicians and that precarious the labor relations there. There are more than 2,500 workers of Spanish nationality who have suffered from precariousness, the ERE, while his Government has done absolutely nothing in defense of those workers because it has been subject to the interests of the United States. That is what this convention represents, this new signature. You exercise what we might call pacotilla patriotism, because it is the People's Party that, when it rules in certain cities, places the largest flags; it is the People's Party that, many times, has Spanish bracelets, and it is the People's Party that is outraged when the hymn of Spain is painted. But it is also the People's Party that gives way to an imperialist power like the United States, which is spilling blood all over the country by committing torture, making illegal arrests and all kinds of actions against the international community outside the United Nations Convention, and to which you are making full follow-up, submission and continued genuineness. We believe that this is a profoundly wrong path, and it has also been proved. It was demonstrated when the previous government of President José María Aznar followed the United States government into an illegal and unjust war; when his government allowed illegal arrests, the flights of those detained illegally; when you also amended, in this very legislature, the laws so that the murderers of the Spanish journalist José Couso could not be tried. In other words, they make an exercise of full submission to an imperialist army that sheds blood, not a national security exercise, because from there they are being complicit in terror, massacre, drama. Security is a civil, not a military concept. We must cooperate, we must disarm, we must work within the United Nations and not cooperate solely and exclusively with the United States, which already knows what it is doing. The lands of Andalusia, the lands of Spain do not want to be accomplices to the murders that are committed six hours from the base of Morón with the industry and technology of the United States. It is outrageous that this agreement should be signed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u59	Thank you, Mr. Garzón. Mr. Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u60	Your Honor, for the record, your speech, frankly. The Government, whose priority is the security of Spain and the Spanish, does not remain alien to the situation we are living in in the North African region and which directly threatens us. We share this concern with our partners and allies and, obviously, with the United States, which requested us in 2013, as you know, the deployment of a crisis response force, which we approve in exercise of the powers that the Government has for this particular one. And now, in view of the worsening of this situation in areas even closer to our territory and following a new American request, we have reached an agreement to amend this agreement so that the United States can expand the capabilities of this offer and make it permanent. The agreement involves strengthening bilateral defence cooperation, increasing the capacity to protect the citizens and facilities of the United States and Spain and our allies in danger areas, and effective support for regional stability and common peace mechanisms in Africa, Europe, the Mediterranean and the Middle East. It has no doubt that the terms of the agreement also safeguard the exercise of our national sovereignty under any circumstances. Finally, we have been very mindful of the strengthening of employment and investment at the base of Morón, reaching commitments on this issue that allow us to look at the future of the base and its area of influence with all optimism. Therefore, Your Honor, the effects of the new amendment protocol on the areas concerned are and will be fully satisfactory for national defence and other related activities. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: WHY IS YOUR GOVERNMENT IMPLEMENTING THE NORMAL DEVELOPMENT OF ERTZAINTZA, INSTITUTION FOUNDED IN THE ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS FIRST OF THE CONSTITUTION, INSISTENTLY RECALLING THE PUBLIC OFFER CONSTITUTIONS OF EMPLOYMENT? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001346]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u62	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration. He asked, first of all, Mr Aitor Esteban, Member of the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, why does the Government intend to prevent the normal development of Ertzaintza, an institution based on the first additional provision of the Constitution, by insisting on its calls for public offers of employment, for which it has already sent a request prior to the appeal?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u64	Thank you, Mr. Esteban. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as I know, this is not the case; no requirement has been sent concerning a specific body, that of the Basque Autonomous Police, and there is only one requirement for information. I would remind you, Mr Esteban, that last year 100 % of the Ertzaintza's troops were replaced, and therefore the disposition of this government has always been that the Basque Autonomous Police has the disposition of those troops and the compliance with the basic regulatory rules that concern us all citizens, all Spaniards and all Basques, who are the ones who are approved in this House, which is why I am sure that your lordship will share, once he has calmed down with previous speeches he has made this morning and that I, as a member of the government, did not seem to me to be the most relevant or the most moderate. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u66	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u67	Yes, I probably have the same impression as the minister's answer, Mr Montoro. You know that within ten years, more than 3,000 agents are going to cause casualties; an average of about 300 per year, approximately. You also know that there is a gap because the incorporation is not immediate: you have to make a selection, a preparation, etc. Of course, the objective of the OPE calls for Ertzaintza is not to increase cash and increase spending, but to maintain what is available. You pull me out of the replacement rate, and you say it concerns us all. I'll discuss it with you. For starters, assuming it concerns us, do you think it is fair to apply the same standard to the autonomous communities that meet the deficit target as to the rest? Because on the issue of deficit compliance there is no one more exemplary than the Basque Autonomous Community and, moreover, it must be borne in mind that this OPE will not entail any costs to the central government. But they are also violating - and this is worrying for us - the essence of forality, because the basis of Ertzaintza is in the first additional provision and, therefore, who has to set the priorities is the Security Board, and who has to set the limits is the Security Board on which both Governments are represented, and it has said that the 8,000 troops will be maintained. In addition, he said that the People's Party of the Basque Country had promoted a GNP in the Basque Parliament precisely for this purpose, so that the troops could be maintained. But it does not have to be subject to that replacement rate, especially when it will not affect the public deficit nor will it affect, at all, the expenditure and budgets of the State. We are talking about respecting the forality, that the root concept that affects Ertzaintza legally is different from what you want to put us, to the replacement rate. I would ask you not to go ahead because, otherwise, putting an appeal - which I hope will not happen - would, in our view, mean non-compliance with forality and a serious confrontation with the Basque Government. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. There is no spirit of conflict on the part of the Government of Spain to provoke any confrontation, but we do have the spirit of compliance. I have to disagree with the approaches that your honor has made here this morning, with the interpretations that you make. The basic regulation concerns all civil servants of all the administrations that make up the State of Spain's autonomy, all of them. There is no reduction that falls outside the scope of this regulation. That is why last year we resolved the issue by changing state regulations, I remind you, Mr Esteban, and you agreed with that procedure and that approach of change. So don't tell me now that it's not worth state law. If you are looking for a conflict it will be for another kind of reason. It will be because we are at the end of a legislature; it will be because you have the thought placed in one political party or another; it will be because of the formation and formation of pacts that you are acquiring in the Basque Country with your political group, or it will be for another reason. But the only reason that inspires the Spanish Government is to replenish the autonomous police force, as we have been doing, at 100% last year, and that Basque society has the security elements that form part of the offer of the State Security Forces as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u70	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON MANUEL PEZZI CERETO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS: DID THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE CONSEQUENCES IN THE INDUSTRY OF THE CARRIERS' INDUSTRY IN SPAIN WHEN THE CLOSURE OF COMPETITION IN THE HYPODROME OF ZARZULA, THE PROPERTY OF SEPI? [[File number 180/001352]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u71	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Administration, by Mr Manuel Pezzi, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u72	How much longer, Minister, will the racing horse industry in Spain have to suffer from the incompetence of its employees at SEPI and at La Zarzuela Hippodrome?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Pezzi. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, there is no such incompetence; as you know, there has been another reason. I find it unfair to describe the performance of SEPI and the very performance of the Zarzuela Racecourse, when the situation has been reproduced in the Grand Hippodrome of Andalusia, in Dos Hermanas, Seville, just as the races at the Hippodrome of San Sebastián, in Lasarte, have also been suspended. The Government's intention is to find a ready solution to this conflict, and I thank you for this question this morning and I encourage you to seek this solution together - together with your group and the other groups in the House - as soon as possible. I would also like to say frankly that it seems unacceptable to me that, because of a private society, horse racing in Spain is paralysed; it seems really unqualified to me. For this reason, the Royal Spanish Hypical Federation is working fast so that there is an official regulator and we can open this type of activity as soon as possible, which, as your honor points out, is so important for the horse industry in Spain. I even call for a call in the Commission next week for those responsible to appear and for the greatest possible consensus to resolve this situation as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Pezzi.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u76	Minister, since December 2014, the competition for horse racing in Spain, which gives jobs to more than 3,000 families, has been halted by a decision of SEPI's company, Hipódromo de la Zarzuela, which controls the 5.5 million euros that State Bets aims to finance this competition through the exploitation of the national foreign horse bet, which has put this industry in a critical situation. The case alleged by Hipódromo de la Zarzuela is that there is no legal regulator, because the Society for the Promotion of Cría Caballar, which since 1841 regulates the competition, is in competition with creditors for debts with Social Security and Finance, despite the fact that with the same situation there has been competition in 2013 and 2014. In fact, the competition manager keeps the activity regulating the competition, granting licenses, giving coverage to races not financed by State Bets in Catalonia and Cantabria. The problem lies in the Zarzuela Racecourse and its president, who has faced the Caballar Breeding Society by selling the image rights to State Bets for three years when he had only the assignment for one, causing a clash with the competition manager, who includes these rights in his assets and who has filed a criminal complaint, admitted to prosecution, for fraud, documentary falsity and coercion against Faina Zurita, president of the racecourse. The answer has been to attempt by all means the liquidation of the Caballar Creativity Development Society, even rejecting the social security charge of almost 2 million euros through a viability plan proposed by the competition administration. The death of the Caballar Breeding Society seems to be the answer to cover up irregularities. The dog's dead, anger's over. Spain has had almost 1,000 horse racing; after the management of Faina Zurita, 300. Ladies and gentlemen, 1,000 jobs. The industry is sinking because there is no competition and the owners have to take the horses to the meadows of France. I make an easy, quick proposal: stop Faina Zurita and name someone with a head who can take the horse races back to the Racecourse of Zarzuela and, therefore... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u77	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, I have already made you an offer, a constructive offer, not the one you are expressing, for the meeting of wills to take place here next week at this parliamentary seat. I am inviting your group to be constructive, but the intervention you have made is not constructive. I invite you to solve the problem at once. I will remind you that I was the finance minister who pushed the opening of the track, I did so during my previous stage as minister. There is no other will on the part of the Government to resolve this issue because there are behind the jobs of thousands of families in Spain. I therefore invite you to hold this meeting in Parliament at once and to resolve this issue and not allow problems of... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u79	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHY DOES THE GOVERNMENT NOT APPRECIATELY SUPPORT THE FAMILY WHO ARE DISAPPEARED? [[File number 180/001351]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u80	Question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Competitiveness. It is formulated by Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, why does the Government not adequately support families who suffer evictions in our country?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u82	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is the only and first Government that has put in place effective policies for the most vulnerable groups, who have not been able to cope with mortgage payments. This is demonstrated by the more than 36,600 families who have benefited from all the measures taken by this Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u84	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u85	Minister, your Government lives outside the drama of those who have lost their jobs, children who are in poverty and those who suffer evictions. It hurts that evictions continue to increase in our country. In 2014 it has been 68,000 and in this year it continues to increase. It hurts how children see their parents lose their jobs first and then their homes. And it hurts above all that the banks, which are already making significant profits, continue to carry out an eviction every fifteen minutes in our country. And in the meantime your Government only patches, and only patches because it has never had the real will to solve this problem. Its moratorium on evictions has been a major failure because the number of beneficiaries has been minimal and has therefore extended it for two more years. Of the 6,000 houses of the Social Housing Fund, 5,000 have not been awarded, and the code of good practice only serves for you to give figures that no one can ever contrast; I believe that you every day invent that data. Even the Court of Justice of the European Union has harshly criticised its management against evictions. And all this, not to mention the bad bank, which his Government sold as a great success but which has been a huge failure, which last year had a loss of 585 million, twice as much as the previous year. That's right, your president has a salary of 400,000 euros and the rest of the counselors of another million more. Does it not seem to you, Minister, shameful that when so many families lose their homes, go to the streets, the bank responsible for administering the homes of the dispossessed spends a fortune on wages? You do not seek a solution to this problem, nor do you allow anyone to seek it. The Andalusian Board passed a law against evictions and you were short of time to take it to the Constitutional Court. I will tell you that the Andalusian Council, with its president, Susana Díaz, at the head, will continue to take measures to stop the evictions in our country. His Government had preferred to rescue banks rather than rescue people. Any decent Government would have supported and rescued families. Be aware, Minister, the only eviction the Spaniards want in our country is that of Rajoy de La Moncloa, and they want it as soon as possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u86	Thank you, Mr. Heredia. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is, Mr. Heredia, I've never seen a compendium in two minutes of as many clichés as yours. When you stop using those handcuffs, I don't know what you're gonna say. Mortgage executions are a serious problem which, according to the INE, affects 0.05% of the total family housing in Spain. Moreover, according to the National Institute of Statistics, the mortgage executions started in the first quarter of this year have decreased by 5%; they are already starting to fall, after the tide that you left us. In addition, the same INE says that 60% of the mortgage executions started in this period occurred between 2005 and 2008, something similar to the preference issue. We are faced with the problem on the table and from the beginning we have created a code of good practice that has achieved more than 16,300 debt restructurings, more than 4,500 payments in payment and a social housing fund that has led to 2,000 families having agreed to a social rent; we approved the halting of the launches, which has already allowed about 14,000 suspensions, and we have also extended all these measures in the Royal Decree-Law of second chance for two more years because it is producing its effects. On the other hand, in relation to the famous Housing Act of the Andalusian Board, you know that the Constitutional Court has declared a substantial part of it unconstitutional. I suppose you will agree with the Constitutional Court's approach, but I would like to comment on one point, Mr Heredia, which is most important: we must go to the root of the problem. The origin of the problem - and you have hinted at it - is unemployment, it is a situation above all of long-term unemployment. The real problem of housing in Spain will be solved when, as is currently happening, housing begins to rise in price, there begins to be more and more financing for the purchase of housing and in better conditions, and the Spanish economy grows again. The Spanish economy is growing above 3.5% and this year will create more than 600,000 jobs. That is where the real solution to the problem of unemployment and the situation of evictions lies, Mr Heredia. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u88	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA ORAMAS GONZALEZ-MORO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: DO THE GOVERNMENT THAT SPAIN AND CANARIA HAVE FULL MEANS TO FRONT MARITIME ACCIDENTS AFTER EXPERIENCE WITH THE FISHERO OLEG NAYDENOV? [[File number 180/001344]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u89	Questions to the Minister for Development. He asked, first, Mrs Ana Oramas, Member of the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, two months ago the Russian fisherman Oleg Naydenov sank 15 miles from Gran Canaria, 2,700 meters deep and with 1,500 tons of fuel. Last Wednesday came the Norwegian ship that will extract that fuel; a process that will last five months and that will have a cost of approximately 30 million euros. Today we do not come to look for culprits or to make negative balances because there has been serious action with the means and experience we had; we come above all to draw conclusions and to see what measures can be put in place for future incidences. It is a very serious matter for the State and for the autonomous community. We wonder what would have happened if, instead of a 1,500-ton fisherman, he had been an oil tanker of which they normally pass through the Canary Islands with 50,000 or 100,000 tons of fuel. We also wonder what would have happened if it had sunk to the north of Gran Canaria instead of to the south, if it had been at another time of the year, with another kind of current. On the basis of all that we thought that a great catastrophe could be generated. Sometimes you can't avoid things, but you can improve prevention, as you and I have talked about. Therefore, I ask you: Has the possibility of ports of refuge in the Canary Islands been analysed? Have we also looked at the possibility of improving the extinguishing services of the Canary ports not only because of the issue of oil tankers but also because of the number of cruises that are in the ports of the Canary Islands whose fire-extinguishing services are not prepared? Are the protocols going to be updated? Are we going to make a volunteer training plan? Finally, is the monitoring programme of the European Maritime Safety Agency expected to be permanently active in the Canary Islands? Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. I thank him for his words because, indeed, maritime safety and the fight against marine pollution are priorities in the management of the Government of Spain. As you know, there are 2,500 people dedicated to maritime security in Spain, whom I would like to thank from here for the work they are doing and congratulate them on it; work that, as you know, has made possible the attention of 43,000 people and to which we have allocated resources of almost 700 million euros. We are therefore allocating the most appropriate means to combat and prevent marine pollution, as well as to save human lives. Your Honor, I would like to remind you that it was this Government that approved the National Response System, which is so important to provide a rapid and adequate response. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that it was this Government that approved the national response system, so important to make it quick and appropriate; it was this Government that approved the National Maritime Plan, and it was this Government that is putting all the material and human means in place so that a misfortune such as that of Oleg Naydenov could be controlled and that the environmental impact was as little as possible. As you very well said they put all available means, and forty-eight hours after the sinking was already hired the robot to locate and inspect the piece. The cracks are being covered and also as you have said we are working for the extraction of fuel, because this will end what has undoubtedly been a maritime accident that could have had very serious consequences. Your Honor, we must also thank the firefighters for their work, for the work of all the professionals in the port of Las Palmas. I also have to tell you about places of refuge that the 2009 directive of the European Community says that governments have to have plans, and that is why this government has the Prisma system that acts to say at every moment what is the best decision. The minister announced to the non-governmental organizations as you know that a working group will be set up with Ports of the State and with all the port authorities. We're doing a job, Your Honor, which I think is very important to prevent...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u93	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like the minister to appear as soon as possible so that, in time, we can analyse all the subjects. I would like to point out to you that, after any incident, we have to take stock, see what can be improved, and in this regard, both the shelter plans and the protocols, as well as the training of volunteers, and the monitoring plan are necessary for the Canary Islands. We need more environmental security, we need security for the Canary Islands, especially because it is a passage zone for large oil tankers; we have large ships, like the Queen Mary, and we do not have the necessary extinguishing services in the Canary ports. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Oramas. - OF JORDI JANÉ'S DEPARTMENT I GUASCH, OF THE CATALAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT PREPARATIONS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO COMPLETE WITH THE PROMISES MADE FROM THE MINISTER OF FOOD TO ESTABLISH THE THIRD RAIL, PERMITTING THE CONNECTION IN THE EUROPEAN YEAR AND HIGH VELOCITY IN THE CITIES OF TARRAGONA, KINGDOM AND ALL THE LINE BETWEEN VILA-SECA [[CONVERGENCE OF THE UNION]] AND CASTELLBISBAL? [[File number 180/001348]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u96	Question also to the Minister for Development, Mr Jordi Jané, from the Catalan Parliamentary Group [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister of Fomento, the second largest metropolitan area of Catalonia is around the cities of Tarragona and Reus. Those cities don't get high speed. Two years ago you received in your office the mayor of Reus and committed that, through the third rail between Vila-seca and Reus, it would reach the high speed to the city of Reus, and that through the third rail that was to be implemented already between Vila-seca and Castellbisbal, it would also reach the high speed to the urban station of Tarragona. These promises are not concrete, Minister, with realities. A connection must be made in the Penedès area between that third rail and the high-speed line that reaches Sants, because there are many companies - chemical companies, companies that generate jobs, companies that seek competitiveness - that have already done works inside to install the European width, but not the third rail and cannot connect those goods in European width to go out to Europe, and make that Mediterranean corridor a reality. That is why I ask you, Minister, for concrete results. We do not want excuses; we want concrete timetables for the execution of the works: when that third rail will actually arrive.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Jané. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jané, we are working from the outset to make the Mediterranean Corridor a reality, and we have done so by devoting EUR 4.8 billion to the Mediterranean Corridor section in this legislature. Your Honor, we have moved from advertising to engineering work and to working on the road across all sections of the Mediterranean Corridor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Jané.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u101	Minister, a lot of publicity, but calendar... What's the calendar? When exactly will the third rail arrive on that crucial stretch that would go from Reus, passing through Vila-seca, and continuing through Tarragona and all that freight corridor to Castellbisbal, and then urban, connecting it with the high-speed line that reaches Sants, through a connection in the Penedès area? There is concern in a very large part of society that calls on the Minister of Development to do so. Note that the Chamber of Commerce of Tarragona, that the whole chemical cluster of Tarragona, that the whole port of Tarragona are waiting for that third rail in order to be able to really connect with the European width; if someone wants the Iberian width can also have it, because the third rail allows both widths. That concretion, minister, does not come, and therefore...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u102	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President; thank you very much, Mr Jané. Look, Your Honor, by the end of 2011 it had not been started no longer the hiring of the sections, but there was no project of any of the sections of the Mediterranean Corridor, and the Mediterranean Corridor - and you agree with me - is the essential axis of the transport of goods of this country. In this legislature, Your Honor, we have dedicated 8.9 billion to the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, of which more than 2,900 have gone to the railway, and that is to give a definitive solution. But, Your Honor, I can teach you - I have it here - that the freight companies - and I name you: Continental Rail, Comsa Rail, Ferrovial Railway, Traction Rail or Logistics - have all said that throughout 2015 they will not pass a single ton by UIC wide tracks. It's good that every citizen knows. I will tell you, in the short time I have left, how is the actual situation of the works in the corridor: Castellbisbal-Vila-seca 76 million euros, which are being implemented taking into account the needs and demands of all operators. Regarding the next stage, Tarragona-Vandellos, we are already finishing the infrastructure: 188 million euros in this year, concluding already the works of platform, those of the viaduct, the station of Cambrils, as well as the works of electrification and the station of Hospitalet. We're going to cut time in thirty-five minutes. Between Vandellós and Castellón we are also implementing the standard width on both tracks, and between Castellón and Valencia the work is very advanced so that there can be high speed to Castellón before the end of the year. In relation to the Vila-seca and Reus knot we are finalizing the drafting of the project to then bid the work, and we have in writing the informative study of the environment of L'Arboç. That is why, Your Honor, this government's commitment to the corridor...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u104	Thank you, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA ANGELINA COSTA PALACIOS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHAT INTERESTS DOES THE APPROVAL OF THE NEW CREATION, RECOGNITION, AUTHORIZATION AND ACCEPTATION OF UNIVERSITIES AND UNIVERSITY CENTRES RESPONSIBLE? [[File number 180/001353]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u105	Questions to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Angelina Costa of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I think it will be my dubious honour to ask you one of the last questions addressed to you as Minister of Education in this Chamber. If so, I wish you in your new destiny to do better than at this ministerial stage; it will not be difficult for you, Minister. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] That is why I ask you what interests the approval of the new decree corresponds to.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u107	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Costa, for your good wishes. I imagine that the decree to which he refers is that which regulates the recognition, accreditation, etc., of centres, and the interests - literally responding to what the statement of his question raises - are exactly the same as in all the normative action of the Government: firstly, as it is natural, the defense of general interests, and secondly, in this specific case, the promotion of a more efficient, more flexible, more internationalized university, and that it provides a better service to all.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u110	The truth, Minister, is that I expected your answer, very much in line with it: generalities, some other sophism, and Úbeda hills, although with a clear and well-defined objective, which is to dismantle and demolish the public university. Thus they have proceeded with the decrees on scholarships, rising fees, Erasmus, low replacement rate, especially severe for the PDI, the notorious 3+2, and always the mother of all the battles flying over: insufficient funding for our public universities; of course, as you believe them unsustainable, for what you are going to worry about giving them better. [[Rumors]] And now this decree, a decree that our group expected, a decree that we were demanding - we thought necessary - but that has caused above all a blatant proliferation of private universities; some of them have been created without control and you know it, and some of them have a questionable academic level and a non-existent... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u111	Excuse me, Congresswoman. Please, those who are not going to answer the questions, leave the Chamber. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. ... a questionable academic level and almost a non-existent research activity. This decree not only does not meet expectations, but it is far from the essential regulation and control that we demanded. It is like many other decrees that follow Horacio's maxim: the mountains will be opened and a ridiculous mouse will be born. This decree is a ridiculous mouse. He presents it to us at the bottom, he presents it to us as a flexibility. You have not yet published it in the BOE, do it or remove it. May they choose the way to withdraw it, may they not give them time, and above all they debate, check with others, and consent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Costa. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Costa, I know that your field of expertise is not exactly that of administrative law. Once a decree is adopted by the Council of Ministers, apart from the date of publication, obviously it cannot be withdrawn. Look, the decree responds to a world-recognized need. Until now the establishment, authorization and recognition of centres was regulated by Royal Decree 557/1991, which corresponds to a time when university studies were first and second cycles, and the titles were regulated by the catalogue. Today we are fully integrated into the European Higher Education Area and logically all systems applying to this issue need to be updated. You have an obsession - for me incomprehensible - with private universities, and anyone who heard them would think that we are talking about a country where there is a balanced situation between public and private universities. Private universities - which, by the way, Mrs Costa, have grown more or been created more under socialist governments than under PP governments - today account for 12% of students in the entire university system in terms of degree, and less than 30% in master's degree. And with regard to the guarantee of systems, this royal decree maintains not only the guarantees that existed before, but also an update on the new management of university studies, both in terms of infrastructure and the special requirements for health sciences, the number of doctors at each level, etc.; it is ultimately a guarantor and promoter of flexibility, specialization and internationalization. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u115	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DON DON PABLO MARTÍN PERÉ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: DOES THE DIFFERENT SECTORS OF THE WORLD OF CULTURE CONSIDERED WITH HIS MANAGEMENT IN THE FRONT OF THE MINISTRY? [[File number 180/001354]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u116	Question also addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. It is formulated by Mr Pablo Martín Peré of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you consider that the different sectors of the cultural world are satisfied with your management at the head of the ministry?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u118	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Martín Peré. I have much less talent for the generalization of what you show in your questions, and what I imagine you will show in the second part of your speech, and therefore I sincerely tell you that I do not know the level of satisfaction of what you call the sectors, obviously outside of some public statements of some. On the other hand, I can say without risk that there is a series of encouraging data on the development of the cultural and creative industries in this last exercise that allow for some optimism, being fully aware of the great difficulties that the budgetary and economic situation have posed for this sector.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u120	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Martín Peré.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u121	Minister, it now seems that we are facing the final credits of this work with which you have given us throughout this parliamentary term, and the truth is that I am faced with a problem when cataloguing it, because in some respects we could do so as a tragedy, because the damage you have done to this subject, culture, which is nothing more than that which faces the sensitivity and creativity of our societies, is enormous. But in other respects I think that we could label it as a comedy, a comedy of plots, to be exact, because the way in which you have faced the different confrontations with the world of cinema and the world of theater is so childish and ridiculous that, if it were not for the gravity of the facts, it would even have grace. You started your walk through the scenes saying there was going to be a model change. He told us that we were going to move from a policy of subsidies to a policy of sponsorship. Finally, there have been no subsidies or sponsorship. So the only change that has been made is that there is no model, and that is that you, Mr Wert, have not been able to protect culture and have not been able to protect it for the citizens. But he has not been able to protect it from his Government either, because on the one hand he has been unable to safeguard it against the rigours of the crisis, but above all, much worse than the crisis: Mr Montoro. However, it is funny that the end of your work is going to be characterized by a happy ending, of those who like spectators so much, because the most paradoxical thing is that the best thing you can do for the world of culture, the best thing that will happen to culture since your appointment will be your march in the coming days. Therefore, Mr Wert, all I have left is to say goodbye, to wish you, of course, luck in your next destiny, but as long as it stays away from culture, education and public interests in general, because that will mean that we will all be much better off in this area and in that sense. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Martín Peré. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u123	Thank you very much, Mr Martín Peré. I consider my own person to be far less important than the issues you have raised, and I prefer to refer to those data to which I referred earlier. If we talk about performing arts, over the past year there has been a 12% growth in the number of theatre companies, 3% in the number of dance companies, 4% in stage spaces and 5% in concert halls. The Platea program has mobilized more than 1,200 functions in halls and 77 in the street, more than 225,000 spectators. Spanish cinema, Mr Martín Peré - I imagine you don't like the data - has had the best year of its history in 2014. We have also changed, with the full consensus of the sector, the whole system of film aid, and we have just done so in a recent royal decree-law that was validated in this House a couple of weeks ago. We have fought piracy more efficiently than any previous Government. We've been working against almost 400 websites. We have achieved the closure of 31 and the disposal of anti-intellectual property material in more than 300 of them. The world of music last year recorded an increase of 21.2% in sales, with an even greater increase in the legal purchase of music in digital support, and also the edition and book have had increases. I understand that this data, which is data that can be consulted on the website itself...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u124	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SILVIA OÑATE MOYA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHY DON'T THE GOVERNMENT PROMOTE THE COMPLIANCE OF THE PRINCIPLE OF REAL AND EFFECTIVE EQUALITY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN IN THE FIELD OF SPORT? [[File number 180/001355]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u125	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport by Mrs Silvia Oñate of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to welcome Dona Gala León, who is with us today in the guest gallery, and to ask this question on her behalf and on behalf of so many pioneering women in the history of sport who have had to face, and still face, deep gaps of inequality. That's why the question is why. Why does the Government not promote compliance with the principle of equality between women and men in the field of sport? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u127	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Oñate, and I also greet Mrs León, who has shown some resistance to meeting, despite the invitations she has received for this... [[Several Members: Oh!- Rumors.-Protests by Mr Pezzi Cereto]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u129	Quiet, please! Mr. Pezzi, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Oñate, I put at your disposal - you will be sent this morning - a precise timetable for all the actions that have taken place in this case. I am surprised to say that this government does not promote equality between men and women in sport, when under this government the presence of women in the governing bodies of the Spanish sports federations has increased by 59%, when this government has created a Sub-Directorate-General for Women and Sport that previously did not exist, when this government has launched the Women's Universe programme, which has also been described as an event of exceptional interest, when under this government, Mrs Oñate, the best successes of Spanish women's sport in all history are taking place. [[Protests]] So select the topics with a little more opportunity, and I take the opportunity to wish you luck to the Spanish Women's Football Selection, which tonight faces Korea and can move on to eighths of the final. [[Greetings.-Protests by Mrs Costa Palacios]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Costa, you're not asking. [[A Member of Parliament: For now!]] Mrs. Oñate.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u132	Minister, despite your surprise, I will tell you that being a woman has in itself been a background career to which some still strive to put obstacles, and this is what you are doing with Gala León, the only woman in the history of the sport selector of a Spanish team of high competition. Not only are they not institutionally supporting it, but they are showing a frontal rejection. No one has received it, Minister, neither you nor the Secretary of State nor the Higher Sports Council, which also denied you the seat for your representation; moreover, after ten months, they are trying to put obstacles and sow doubts about the legality and suitability of the appointment of Gala León. You show that the presence of women in leadership positions does not like them, because you have also failed to achieve balanced representation in bodies such as the Sports Administrative Court and the National Anti-Doping Commission. They do not respect parity, Minister, and their responsibility is to comply with the Equality Act, although they do not care too much. Minister, you will be going to Paris shortly, and behind you will also be the Lomce, your Education Act, which we will withdraw as soon as we can. Segregation will come out of the classroom and will return Education for Citizenship, and with it the promotion of values of equality. You leave us a four-year black and white scenario, like this photo, Minister. [[shows a photograph]] Does that ring a bell? Have you ever seen her? It's the 1967 Boston Marathon. Its organizers, in a clear macho reaction, try to prevent a woman from competing in the race for the first time. Saving distances, Minister, is what you leave us: a pitiful black and white scenario in the field of equality and sport, but, you know what? No doubt, despite you and despite your government, women athletes will reach the finish line and the top. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u133	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ignored my responsibilities in organizing the Boston Marathon, but here I keep taking surprises. [[Rumors.-Protests]] The previous Government devoted less than a quarter of what the Government had devoted to the Women and Sport programme. Under the previous Government, women's participation in high-level sports competitions was much lower than under this Government. Under the previous Government, aid has not been approved, as has been done under this Government, which allows high-competition athletes to attend periods of maternity, breastfeeding, etc., without interrupting their sports careers. Under the previous government, as I have told you before, the representation of women in the governing bodies of national sports federations was almost 60% lower than the current one. Only from the point of view of ignorance or bad faith can this Government be accused of not having worked for the promotion of equality in sport. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA VIRTUDES MONTESERÍN RODRIGUEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, ENERGY AND TOURISM: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT THE ANNUAL SUB-SCHEDULE FOR INTERRUMPILITY IS THE BEST FORMULA TO KEEP EMPLOYMENT IN GREAT ENERGY CONSUMER COMPANIES? [[File number 180/001356]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u136	Question to the Minister for Industry, Energy and Tourism. The proposal is made by Mrs Mariví Monteserín of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u137	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, last December the electro-intensive industries, the workers and the regions where they are based suffer the consequences of their short-term policies which produce real social stress, as a result of uncertainty, insecurity and the lack of medium-term solutions, which are essential to avoid silent or explicit closures or relocations of these companies. That is why we have repeatedly asked Members of Galicia and Asturias, trade union organisations, business organisations in the sector and mayors for a solution to this very serious problem caused by the annual auction. Faced with this, your ministry and electrical network are still clinging to and entangled in error, so that they announced a new auction again for a year, and on this occasion supposedly ahead of the next few weeks, it seems that for stress to occur in summer rather than in winter. Well, this announcement has generated more insecurity in the sector. That is why, Minister, we want to know, better said, we demand you; yes, we demand you, Mr Soria, to make it clear to us all in this session if there will be auctions in the coming weeks, if time is kept for a year, how many lots include and how many megawatts, and what will be the endowment of the premium. This is a fundamental issue. In my region it affects three major industries. In some of them the electricity cost can multiply the labour cost by seven. It is impossible to compete on the world and European market with this ballast. You are a minister of industry, not just tourism, but in more than three years you have never come to know our reality. Think that solving this problem means that industry is gaining weight and helping to create jobs, and thus to bring the crisis back on track. Failure to solve it means the opposite: more crisis and more unemployment. All this depends on his will, unfortunately so far for us. Thank you very much, Minister. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs. Monteserín. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u139	Your Honor, you pose energy policy and interruptibility as a tool for employment management. If you'll allow me, I'll correct it. It's a tool, but electrical demand management. In order to manage employment, you have to do other things. An economic policy that is fundamentally geared to correcting macroeconomic imbalances must be pursued. First, a policy of fiscal consolidation, and then a package of structural reforms, including reform of the energy sector. What does that mean? Where there is a gap between the revenues and costs of the electricity system, where there is a deficit in the electricity system, it must be eliminated and overrun. That is one of the things that has been done throughout this legislature. Energy reform is, for example, that where in a persistent way electricity prices are rising, they stabilize, then fall. That is also happening during this legislature. Energy sector reform is, for example, where tolls were continually growing to finance the regulated activities of the system cease to rise and freeze as is the case today. It is also energy policy, for example, the fact that there is an 85 % bonus in the electricity tax exclusively for the companies to which you referred, which are the electro-intensive companies. This applies from the point of view of employment management, whether for small or medium-sized enterprises or large enterprises, whether electrointensive or not. Now for the electro-intensive, there is also this electricity management tool, which in Spain until last year was set administratively. Do you know why he switched to the auction system? At the request of the sector itself, because one of the companies in Italy - which also operates here in Spain - as a result of the existing system, a fine of EUR 300 million was imposed, since the previous system, which started in 2008, was considered a system of State aid by the European Union. An auction system was established - it is an auction system that effectively manages the system operator - under the supervision of the National Market and Competition Commission, and which is very good at establishing a competitive mechanism to which all companies that are electro-intensive can present themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u140	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF LAURA CARMEN SEARA SUBJECT, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHY DID THE GOVERNMENT NOT COMPLETE THE MANDATES OF THIS CAMERA ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SPANISH LEGISLATION TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION ON THE RIGHTS OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITY? [[File number 180/001357]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u141	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Laura Seara of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u142	Minister, on 1 August 2011, under the government of President Zapatero, the Act on Adaptation to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was adopted. It urged the Government to adopt, within one year, a rule that would comply with the exercise of the legal capacity of persons with disabilities. Until today, Minister. On October 23, 2013, Congress approved a NLP, also urging the Government to prepare a report with these legislative proposals within six months, including those that also affected electoral law. So far, too. Therefore, we ask you: Why have you not fulfilled these mandates, Minister?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Sara. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Seara, you know that since the ratification of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Spain has carried out intensive, progressive work, continuing to adapt to the mandate of the convention, work that began in its legislature, in the last of the Socialist Party, and that this Government has also continued; therefore, work has continued on this. Most important from the legislative point of view was the consolidation of the three main disability laws: the Lismi, the Liundau and the Equal Opportunities, Non-Discrimination and Universal Accessibility Offences and Sanctions Act. As you know, they have been integrated into a new rule that has been being demanded for a long time by organizations representing disability and their families. Therefore, important aspects that were reflected in the laws, such as education or accessibility, that had been developed by specific subsequent laws and that both in their terminology and approach were far from the principles contained in the United Nations Convention, have been able to be adapted. The approach is that persons with disabilities have rights. All this work has made Spain an international benchmark in the field of disability and in our process of adapting to the United Nations Convention, which, as you point out, is not complete. You are concerned - and I too am concerned - about the adaptations of our system of guardianship, guardianship and the right to vote for persons with disabilities. In this regard, a working group was set up with the Ministries of the Interior and Justice, which is working on the provision for the adaptation of these rules.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Seara.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u146	Yes, Minister, 80,000 people, Mr Alonso, 80,000 men and women with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities who cannot vote because you have not done your job. People with Down syndrome, people with autism, deprived of their ability to exercise a right, Mr Alonso, sacred of citizenship. We are failing to comply with international standards and also our own legislation. In fact - you will know - the United Nations has shown great concern, as the deprivation of the right to vote in Spain seems to be the rule and not the exception. Meanwhile, you remain obsessed with your electoral reforms. They are stifling with changes to govern the most voted list; that is, only if it is theirs, as we have just seen in Andalusia. They are able to modify autonomous statutes so that their accounts can be drawn up, and not so. That is true, when it comes to promoting reform for the benefit of 80,000 people, they become muted. It is more profitable, isn't it, Mr Alonso?, to support the notaries, a collective, as we know, extremely vulnerable, than the more than 2.5 million people with disabilities in our country. He's probably going to be the man of the day today, and as I'm sure he'll talk to Mr. Rajoy, give him and his Twitter account a message from us. Tell him that postponing this reform a day, a month and a year is petty and sectarian and not the pacts reached in the municipalities of our country. You know why? Because the more you govern the more you do harm to those who deserve it the less, Mr. Alonso. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u147	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u148	It didn't have to go very well in Orense, but that's not a responsibility attributable to me. In Spain there are no 2.5 million people with disabilities, Mrs Seara, there are almost 4 million, and we think of all of them, all of whom have that limitation. A policy has been made not only active but highly recognized of support to the whole sector, in fact Spain was worthy in 2013 of the Roosevelt Prize awarded by the United Nations, which is like the Nobel Prize in Disability. Others recognize it outside and, therefore, I think it is also good that we speak well about our country here. And if we talk about voting, about the will that emanates from the ballot box, it is also good that the majority decision of the citizens is ever respected, not as you do that to cover up your defeats you are able to agree with anyone. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u149	Thank you, Minister. - THE DEPARTMENT OF HOPE WAS ORTEGA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED TO INCORPORATE ATTENTION TO PERSONS IN MODERN DEPENDENCE SITUATION? [[File number 180/001358]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u150	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality by Mrs Esperança Esteve of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u151	Thank you, President. Minister, how does the government plan to incorporate care into the system for people in a situation of moderate dependence?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Esteve. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mrs. Esteve, thank you for the question. We have talked more often about this in the House. As you know, people with moderate dependency, who are over 300,000 and are already valued, have to be incorporated, as foreseen in the Unit Act, into the seventh and eighth years of implementation; therefore, the incorporation is scheduled for 1 July. In this regard, the Autonomous Communities, which recognize the situation of dependence, will integrate these people and provide them with the appropriate resources. As for the funding and obligations that the General Administration of the State and the Ministry have to fulfil, the incorporation of these people is guaranteed through the appropriations of the 2015 budget and, as I have told you in this House and again today, with the credit extensions that are necessary to cover both the needs that have already been developing over the course of this year and the new ones that are detected as a result of the incorporation of these 300,000 people with moderate dependence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u155	Mr Minister, thank you for your explanation, but it seems that you are absolutely convinced with it that so far you have complied perfectly with the requirements of the law. I would remind you that since December 2011, when the first phase of people with moderate disabilities was scheduled to enter, the government paralyzed and, for three consecutive years, a lot of valued people - you quoted the figure: 300,000 - have been left unattended. Now, three months after the elections, you point out that you are going to approve an enlargement of budgets because, indeed, these figures do not appear in the 2015 budget. It was not planned, and now, running and almost without time to deploy it, you include this element. But what has happened during these three years of paralysis? There have been economic cuts, reflected in all budgets, co-payment, waiting lists, but above all, the financing of the system has placed a burden on the autonomous communities, which have assumed almost 80% of the budgets. Therefore, I do not understand now what we are going to ask the autonomous communities, already overloaded and those who have been cut their own budgets, to incorporate the 300,000 moderates. Will this enlargement be of the minimum agreed, will it be of the agreed? And what are we going to guarantee and with what time? Finally, Minister, we are playing one of the most important parts of the law. These moderates have to be placed at the center of the system because they are people who, with adequate prevention and personal autonomy, can achieve an autonomous life with less costs for public service. Please, I urge you to be more serious on this issue and to clarify how you are going to do it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs. Esteve. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you, and I thank you for remembering that the law, in fact, is about promoting personal autonomy, which is a particularly important objective for people who are in a situation of moderate dependence. What has been done in these years? Well, look, in 2011, the coverage rate was 71%; today it is 84% and reaches 90% in grades II and III. During this legislature 345,000 beneficiaries with benefits have been incorporated, making an average of 284 beneficiaries per day, and there are 4,544 more beneficiaries than in 2011, apart from having reduced the waiting list. Therefore, communities have been working and the State has been fulfilling its commitments. We've been securing the settlement month after month. At the moment there is absolutely no outstanding amount, and on the budgetary amendments, which I was talking about, it is true that they have been a usual practice to adapt the appropriations that exist in the budgets to the demand that is actually being produced. There have always been enlargements; in 2009 it was 468 million; 358 in 2010; last year it was 58 million euros. This year we will have to make an extension in order to adjust the budget and to include the 300,000 moderate dependents, and I guarantee that the autonomous communities will receive, as they have done so far, month after month, the timely liquidation. With this, we will have complied with the deployment of the law and there will be the hand stretched out to evaluate, definitively, how it has gone and to look to the future of the Law on the Promotion of Autonomy and Dependency. I hope... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u158	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u159	Question by the Joint Group, by Mrs Enbeita, on the position of the Government with regard to the crisis situation and the specific way in which it affects women. Mrs Enbeita has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, at this point in the film no one doubts the existence of the crisis. If we look back, we can see that all the historical crises have been similar in that they have all affected women more, and this is simply because we were already in an unequal situation before the crisis. It is also true that the exit from each crisis has historically contributed to a little more spoiling of the social achievements that have been achieved until then. Thus, even if we are in an economic and almost structural crisis, we are faced with a historic opportunity to change that general rule. We can use this moment to meet the needs so far unmet. [[The lady]] The cuts in social services are not the solution, but it seems that they are the only proposals that the People's Party Government has put to us to get out of this crisis. They made us believe that we lived above our possibilities, so now, for us to live in a reality, they have cut down on social services and, by the way, made our quality of life worse. I'd already be thrilled if Mr. Alonso would take care of me! For example, the People's Party Government was charged with the Unit Act, which, as the system stood, was unable to meet all demand in that area. Well, now, without the Unit Act, women are condemned to meet the needs of our dependent families. So, naturally, because it is not known who was ever thought of to say that we were doing better, and also the current dependency aids, in cases where they exist, are far from guaranteeing an autonomous life to all the people who make up society. You have gradually privatized social services, and the Law on the Rationalization of Local Entities, for example, has contributed to this. Dismantling municipalities is resulting in larger entities, such as parliaments or autonomous communities, subcontracting social services, which affects us twice as much as women. Because with the disappearance of the aid the care is carried out in the homes, and who do you think that in the homes do these jobs? In most cases women, of course. Moreover, with the dismantling of the public system, women have gone on to do the same work but without charging, and I explain myself. Care work, attention to dependency, has been a historically feminized job, and with hundreds of public jobs in this sector, women who have gone to unemployment or have ended up with an absolutely precarious salary have ended up doing the same job, but at home and without any remuneration. Because of the recognition of domestic work or the problems of gender-based violence in this area we are not talking about better, because, Minister, less money is being spent on the protocols of gender-based violence. They reinforce the idea of the traditional family, in which man is the main breadwinner of the family. That must be their way of resolving the fact that they have lived beyond our possibilities: to eliminate the wages of women in households, and thus not facilitating women's access to the labour market, but their return to the home; to take up the tasks that you are not taking care of. What then? That apart from not giving any kind of help to women, they give power to men. We are very far from an economically autonomous life for all - very far, Mr Alonso - and you know as well as I do the consequences that this can have and that you have had for many years. They focus their policies on productive work but they forget about reproductive work, and at the same time they need someone to reproduce life on a daily basis, unless they invent some robot that replaces people, which I doubt very much because in research the cuts have also been brutal. And so, as you calculate how to pay the debt, we are left without pensions, without social services, without subsidies, with health care, with labor reform and with the privatized administration, etc., which is no nonsense. Look, for example, at the health co-payment or privatized health. The statistics say that we live longer than men, with which with the short pensions that we have left for the precarious work that they offer us we do not have it very easy to live with full guarantees of health. In that inventing reforms they have taken advantage of to get involved, for example, with the right over our own body. They could not pass the Gallardon law, but they have imposed on us the reform for those under the age of eighteen. What will young women do between the ages of sixteen and eighteen when they want to interrupt their pregnancy but in their homes there are not enough conditions to do so? Minister, public health must guarantee the right to interrupt the pregnancy of any woman, beyond parental, moral or ethical permissions. No one can be forced to make a decision like this or not just because a sector of society, respectably driven by faith, is calling for it over and over again. Anyone who does not want to do so, by faith, belief or because he wishes to do so, is free not to do so, but public health - his ministry - must guarantee that right, especially now that the rates of gender-based violence in households are alarming and the family breakdowns increase because of the economic situation, which you have created, of course. Don't tell me the data on gender-based violence has improved. You know as well as I do that in most cases it is not reported and that when it is reported there has already been a previous calvary that has probably lasted years, and that invisible gender-based violence must be put on the table, because cuts in justice and social assistance have left thousands of women without any protection. In short, you are reinforcing the return home of women. It's clear that this way your system can work again. You don't have to invest the revenues of the tax system in social services, you focus on paying the debt and we do all that you have to do but refuse to do so. And all this has been designed very well, you are sewing a suit to your measure because already before the crisis it was considered that equality policies were a luxury, which has made you get rid of a pen in times of austere. There are no real policies of equality, there are no policies of equality, and there is an involution in values, which is like running and not stopping. You're charging yourself with gender norms, you want to turn us into mothers and caregivers, and that's not bad if you also consider us women or people, but no, we're just potential mothers, mothers and caregivers. They make our wages precarious, which makes our pensions much lower than those of men; a woman must work more or less ten or eleven years to be able to retire under the same conditions as a man. They make it impossible to reconcile domestic work with paid work and in the end we lose, but of course you save. The crisis will happen or we will make it happen but things will never be the same again. The increase in part-time work is virtually female because it has been the only way that thousands of women have had to reconcile domestic work with their working lives. Privatization of care has resulted in hundreds of women having to devote themselves exclusively to the home. The precariousness of employment and living conditions has come to such an extent that it can take years to recover the rights we have lost and the loss of autonomy is there. Far from ensuring an autonomous life from the economic and care point of view, they are creating more and more dependence among people. Minister, we women are maintaining a system that falls apart, we make it possible for the well-being of the people around us, we reproduce life - or the workforce for the capitalist system - and we offer services that you have dismantled. So I'm going to ask you four specific questions: What steps does your ministry intend to take to remedy the inequalities between men and women? When will a new Unit Act and the publication of privatized social services be re-examined? When do we recognize the care work we do for free? Above all, what steps does your Government intend to take to ensure that when this crisis is over we have not lost the rights that our years of struggle and suffering have cost us?
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Enbeita, I understand the complaint you made from this rostrum about a situation of inequality that is real between men and women in our country and that therefore determines the implementation of active policies and policies that must be a priority of the Government in the field of defence or the promotion of that real equality between women and men. In his complaint, he particularly insisted on the lack of co-responsibility on the part of men, especially for the care of people living with us in homes, children, the elderly, those in charge of family care. You are absolutely right, the responsibility is borne by the woman in more than 95% of the cases. Thus, for example, 92% of the child-care surpluses are requested by women; that is, there is no co-responsibility on the part of men. It's hard but it's a photograph and an image in which we certainly go wrong. I therefore understand that the complaint makes sense. From that point on, from that position of denunciation, I think it is trumping some clichés, phrases made, prejudices that have settled because they are part of the political debate or because they are interested as a message to erode a government and do not conform to reality. They are not adjusted because sometimes they talk about complaints that have simply not happened. We have not lowered pensions, but we have been updating them; we have not privatized social services, but they remain an important responsibility, primarily of the municipalities and the autonomous communities, and what we wanted with the change of the law is to ensure and ensure the financing of those services provided by the competition administration. Efforts have therefore also been made to strengthen the position of local entities in this regard. These years have progressed and I want to give some data on the situation of real inequality that are strengthening your concern. Seven out of ten part-time contracts fall to women workers; there are still different wages, there is a wage gap, to which you have not referred but on which to act; women have obvious difficulties in accessing positions of responsibility; they are 46 % of social security contributors, but the average careers of women are thirty-one years and those of men are forty-half years, so on average there are ten years of difference in the career of a woman and a man. That is why we have taken some steps now to try to compensate for this situation. As you have also recalled, every short time we see ourselves under the obligation to mourn and condemn - and today I do it again - murders of women as a result of macho violence. Since the start of the legislature, the Government has been working in three major areas marked by a strategic equality plan, the Strategic Equal Opportunities Plan, which was adopted more than a year ago. The first block is the promotion of women's employment and social protection, as well as their promotion and the possibility of a career in circumstances of greater parity with men; the second is the work that refers - and you have insisted on it - to reconciliation and co-responsibility between women and men, and, lastly, the third is progress towards the eradication of ill-treatment of women. These are the objectives that centered our purpose, our strategy. For equality, work, employment and women's access to it are essential. I can't accept that prejudice that I want women to stay at home. It seems to me a judgment of intentions that does not agree with what we really think and not with the policies that we are pushing. Programmes have been put in place to promote the inclusion of women in employment, particularly women in vulnerable situations, who are therefore more difficult to access to the labour market: women who have been victims of gender-based violence, women over the age of 45, women with disabilities, women living in rural areas. To protect all these women we are working on specific plans. Significant progress has also been made in the integration of women into entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. We have collaborated with chambers of commerce; for example, in a programme of business support for women that has already carried out 42,000 counselling and has involved the creation of 7,283 companies. Many Spanish companies also participate in the Network of Companies for Equality, are committed to good practices and are changing their way of operating so that the company is not a closed area to family life or a much broader vision of women who enrich work within companies. It is a model that bases the employment relationship on trust, on the commitment of workers and on understanding the needs of reconciling work and family life. In that we are moving forward and that culture is spreading throughout companies. I will be able to present in the very short term, together with the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, our plan against wage discrimination between women and men, which must be incorporated - I have said this once in this rostrum - as a priority not only in the action of the Government but also in the social agenda of Spain and in general of all political groups. Work has been and continues to be done to increase the presence and participation of women in leadership positions, steering committees and boards of directors. Already last year, we established by law that boards of directors should promote diversity of gender, experience and knowledge, without suffering from implicit biases that could imply discrimination, and in particular facilitate the election of counsellors. Especially large companies are participating in programmes to increase the number of women in managerial positions. We are trying to broaden - we are going to propose it here, because this is a debate that must also be held by your ladies and gentlemen - the social protection of women, the correction of this inequality in pensions that occurs as a result of having devoted time to childcare. We have therefore proposed a measure which exists in France and other countries, although not in Spain: a supplement to the contributory pension for women who have had two or more children. He knows that our proposal is 5%, two children; 10%, three; 15% for four or more. It is true that the effort of these years has been to protect the purchasing power of pensions, to ensure that they are not at risk in any way because it is the main element of intergenerational solidarity in Spain and of security in our future, but the Government and I were particularly concerned - as I suppose you are - about the situation of widowed women who see their incomes damaged in a very important way. This social promotion and pension supplement measure will benefit next year, if it comes into force - I hope it will, it is our will - 123,000 women, 240,000 in 2017, more than 350,000 in 2018 and more than 455,000 in 2019. The outcome of the policies that have been put in place is beginning to arrive. Today there are almost 90,000 more women with jobs than at the beginning of the legislature, according to the unemployment data recorded in May, despite the fact that 2012 and 2013 were years of job destruction and still of poor economic situation. The latest EPA published in the first quarter of this year confirms that women's employment has grown by almost 150,000 people. The number of self-employed women in underage sections, from 16 to 30 years of age, has increased in recent years and already exceeds 40%, so we are also approaching a balanced presence in self-employed women and men in those underage sections. The number of women on boards of directors of Ibex 35 companies has risen by five points, from 12 to 17%. It's overwhelmingly minority, but it's coming up; I think it does it slowly, but it keeps going up. There has been an increase in the number of women in public-owned company boards, which now stands at 32%. It is still only a third, it is very insufficient but it has been rising over these four years, and that is the effort we must insist on. We have also taken various measures with regard to something that you are very concerned about: co-responsibility, conciliation. We extend the right to shorter working hours for children up to the age of twelve, although it is true that most women do so. We have introduced a one-year one-per-cent benefit from social security contributions for common contingencies of self-employed people who need to reduce their day care for children under the age of seven or for older persons who are in dependency. You know that in our comprehensive Family Support Plan we have also introduced measures to introduce more flexibility, for example, to create recoverable time exchanges for timely reconciliation needs in the Administration. With regard to gender-based violence, you say that the data has improved. Yes, they are improving because the number of women killed is lower but it remains completely unacceptable, although the complaints are being raised. Above all, there is a high level of hope: more than 70% of women who have been ill-treated ensure that they have already been able to get out of this situation and have not been ill-treated in the last five years. Many women go out, they can go out; that is the focus of our campaigns that, as you know, have the corollary of There Out. Women must dare to denounce, they must leave that world, we must help them because there is a way out, therefore hope. Many measures have been taken and continue to be taken; some plans - I have already announced - are imminent and will come to the House. In the Unit Act, which was also of concern to you, the deadlines for deployment have been met - I explained earlier, in response to Mrs Esteve's question - and I think it is indeed time for us to sit down and reflect on what the future will be after the deployment that was provided for by the law has been completed. We are committed to ensuring that women's rights are effective and that we move forward, that every year we take steps towards more real equality, which is not happening today. I think your complaint makes sense, but it also recognizes that others want the same thing, that they work and that they are getting results with everyone's effort. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u163	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Enbeita.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Alonso, obviously I don't know what you want; I'm not talking to you about what you personally may want, I'm just trying to read in what I see you get the policies of your ministry. You always give positive data, and it's okay; maybe you can see the half full bottle and we keep seeing it half empty, but it's clear that a lot of things are missing to do. You talk about co-responsibility, about the things that have been done, about the data that have improved, but this does not fall from the sky and you have to put a lot of effort to improve. In Spain, for example, 0.6 % of gross domestic product is invested in care, and in Europe there are already countries between 3 and 4 %. At this point, putting the handbrake on the cuts is no longer enough, we have to try to go further. The public institutions should know, they should already have a plan to know how to reconcile personal life with working life; perhaps that would also help us in the wage gap, because in the Spanish State the working days are the longest or the longest in Europe and, at the same time - it is said - it is where they are least exploited or profitable. Perhaps, instead of encouraging half-days, which are usually so that women can reconcile family and working life, good-performing days without reducing wages and with the possibility of men and women being able to care equally for people who are at home and have to be cared for. More information: in the Spanish State, for example, only 2% of people over the age of sixty-five receive some public aid; 2%, Minister. You will tell me whether with this index there will be no women dedicated only to the care of their elders; if they do not do so by giving up their possibility of work, they do so in other people's homes with bad wages and without the possibility of unemployment or social security contributions, because we all know what situation the house employees are in. All of this, in my view, is a consequence of the fact that we continue to think that it is the man who must support the family and the woman, at best, must earn a compensatory salary. Perhaps, in the face of the future, we should talk about interdependence, because it is a lie that people take advantage of themselves all their lives; the first and last years of life all and all of us will need someone to help us or to take care of us, yes or yes. Why don't we build co-responsibility social networks? Why don't we talk about unpaid care? Minister, all the people we make up society must have the same responsibility in caring for others. It is enough of people who have been neglected or dismantled from the public system. It is becoming increasingly difficult to reach retirement or old age with minimal economic autonomy; you say that we are getting better and better in that area, but you do not see the results of all those policies that you mention. If at least you cannot guarantee decent pensions, guarantee social protection services, but guarantee something for all people. They have subjects pending with equality; I repeat, attention to dependence must reach quotas before the law, and I will not say that the law was the panacea, but now we are worse. Each person, each of us, has the right to public services to use our taxes to ensure full functional autonomy. In matters of motherhood - you have talked about child care - the public system should get in the way, and not just to refuse to interrupt our pregnancy or not. Review, for example, maternity and paternity leave in Nordic countries - parents should have the same time off as mothers at the time of birth or adoption of their children - or in cases where there are two mothers or two parents both should have the same opportunity. Entrepreneurs rather than seeing in a woman a potential drop of four months, would perhaps appreciate a person capable of continuing to reproduce life. I'm done with this, Madam President. There are more than enough economic conditions to change things, what is lacking is will. If they want, they can help improve the quality of life of people, they can eliminate public debt from the centre of the economy, they can stop talking about money and deal with people, life, people who are interdependent in a society of solidarity in which we would optimize public care and services without burdening us with the working lives of 50% of society, that is, women. It is clear that there is a lack of will, so in the meantime, as in many other areas affecting women, the feminist struggle will have to continue to achieve certain measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Enbeita. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u166	Thank you, Madam President. The advantage of this form of urgent interpellation to the Government is that a motion must then be tabled, and in it we must offer some measures and some proposal, which I have not heard - I would have liked to hear them in the second part of their speech - beyond the denunciation and the permanent accusation that makes the others do not believe that we need to improve in the area of co-responsibility or the inclusion of women in the labour market on equal terms. I believe in that, but not just me, so does the government. Therefore, the projects, plans and programmes that are driven by the Government throughout the legislature have been directed in that direction, and I have already reported on some of them. If we did not see the half-empty bottle, such positive support plans and measures for women would not be so intensely needed. With regard to the situation of pensions in Spain, which had been frozen for some time and even had doubts about their future sustainability, we were particularly concerned that they would be sustainable and that they could maintain purchasing power, as I have said before; that has been a priority of our Government, and we have certainly taken it forward. Pensions for women and the time spent caring for children should be improved. From this parliamentary term that time is taken as a quote; before that it was not considered as a quotation time, and in that sense we are making progress. On the other hand, it is pointed out that the rate of risk of poverty - then we are going to talk about child poverty - in older people in Spain is not the highest in Europe, because we have a pension system that protects quite well, not fully but quite well. There is also a non-contributory pension system, which gives a possibility, support to many people in Spain, to hundreds of thousands of people who had not had the opportunity to contribute. Therefore, you should review that percentage of State support that mentions many people who are over 65 years of age, because they are data that do not sympathize with reality. Much remains to be done, Mrs. Enbeita, but we are doing much. Many companies, I have said before, are being incorporated into a new mentality, into a new way of looking at work; they are companies that are already familiarly responsible and in which mechanisms of flexibility and considerations of the day are introduced that rely much more on the trust in the person who is collaborating in that company, in its collaborator, as well as on the need that it can be fully developed in it as a person. We're driving that new relationship model. A lot of companies are already participating, and that's the way. In companies that work like this, there is no wage gap, there is no such difference between men and women, and co-responsibility becomes contagious also for men. I think that's important and that's the line we're supporting. Many companies are beginning to do so and it allows many women and many men to live their family life, personal life and to be compatible with employment. Now, all of this is under the assumption that there is a job, because there has to be a job. Those who have the most difficulty of insertion must have active State assistance in order to take advantage of these opportunities. This determines that there has to be a serious economic policy, that promotes growth, and that this, transformed into opportunities, can reach all and all alike. That is the policy of the Government, that there should be employment opportunities and that with it we should be able to strengthen the situation of equal inclusion and inclusion, which are the objectives we all share. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u167	Thank you, Minister. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY, ON EMERGENCY MEASURES AGAINST CHILD POVERTY. [[File number 172/000323]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u168	We turn to the Socialist Group's call to the Minister of Health on urgent measures to combat child poverty. Mrs. Carcedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Again with child poverty at a cost, again the facts of our country's reality make us blush, make us feel ashamed of the conditions in which we have our children and we are extremely concerned, or must be greatly concerned, about the situation in which we place our country for its competitiveness in the future. Minister, I am asking you this question because, in terms of responsibility for the distribution of responsibilities of the Council of Ministers, children's policies fall within your ministry. We must recognize that the reality to which this situation led us, especially the management of this crisis, is a set of measures that do not depend exclusively on his ministry, but also. I regret that these calls are taking place as they take place and that the ministers who have much to say in this situation are not here. I am referring to an increase in child poverty of more than 3 points, 3.4 points in the last year according to the survey of living conditions. Despite the methodological changes that the members of the Government used - even its president used it to point out that the increase in inequality and the increase in poverty is already being combated, as I have said here many times, because of a methodological change - the increases in child poverty to which I refer are occurring. Without these methodological changes it would be one more point. In fact, the end result is that, even with this data, one in three children is below the poverty line and slightly more than 35% suffer from a family shortage. Ladies and gentlemen, how did we get here? All the measures that were implemented with the so-called reforms, understood in a certain sense, lead to the same: inequality, to poorer families with children in poverty. The same survey of living conditions says that poverty is concentrated, below the average are families without children and above the average are families with children; then, white and bottled, Minister. He said that this is due not only to his measures but to those of other ministries, starting with that of the minister who sits on his left, Mr. De Guindos, who speaks of a balanced and healthy economy. Let me say that the healthy economy must benefit the whole population, as it does not serve a way out of the crisis that benefits only a few and opens up these gaps of inequality. Mrs Báñez, Minister, has us used to Plenary after Plenary at the record-play, to repeat the same speech of the goodness of a labor reform that filled us with goods and jobs. Mr Minister and Mrs Báñez - who is not here - the fact is that the figures indicate 600,000 more unemployed people, who translate into real jobs, represent a loss of almost 1.5 million jobs in this legislature, because part-time accounts for very few hours, and I am not going to stop at this. With regard to the reduction of wages, more than 9% of wage cuts have occurred in this legislature. That's poverty. Final result: rise in labour poverty. We are already 14.2% of those in poverty, Minister. All this results in child poverty. We cannot focus on child poverty and help children. No, it is a problem of the coexistence model and affects all ministries. Let's not talk about Mr. Montoro, who's not here to yell today, like the other day. Minister, these days we have known some data published by Fedea - I am not going to take the chart - that tell who will benefit from this tax reform that Mr Montoro sold as a panacea. It's only going to benefit high rents. Deciles of high income, from 60,000 euros of income, are the ones that benefit. See the Fedea report and check it out, but ratify what we have been saying here since this tax reform came into effect: the deciles of low incomes - the four lowest, below 11,000 euros and especially below 6,000 euros of annual income - are absent from the benefits of this tax reform. Therefore, EUR 9 billion is reduced to the public purses, social benefits and the quality of public services are cut, the universality of some public services is withdrawn and they are not benefited from that supposed money in the pocket that the President says is the gift of the 9 billion to the most powerful. This is the synthesis. What can we expect from all these measures? More inequality, more poverty, more child poverty, more fear in managing a country in future competitiveness, because we are neglecting the talent of many children. Mr. Wert I left for the end. Mr Wert, Minister for Education and Culture, is taking measures contrary to the evidence of good education. To begin with, it withdraws 0-3 education because it is helpful, when all studies, all without exception, show that early schooling is the key to school success. Who's out of childhood education? The poor. The poor are left, Mr. Wert, find out. Mr. Wert, find out. He cuts the scholarships - he says they are a prize for good students, not a right - by lowering the average by more than 600 euros and reducing the investment in them by 18%. I don't go that way because there's a lot to talk about, because it's the key. Education is the key. We put together all the measures and they all lead to Rome. And Rome what is it? Rome is child poverty. It cannot be otherwise with the measures being implemented. The results of the INE on the survey of living conditions cannot be other. Minister, we ended up in your ministry. They draw a social agenda that is a true schizophrenia. Now that they're going to boost mental health services, see if they're treating this schizophrenia, because they put some things in the plans and then they do others. For example, they put 0-3 education, the universality of health, the fight against child poverty, the strengthening of social services and many measures that we share, but then the reality is what I am describing. There's no study here. I'll mention another one. This morning there were many references to the International Monetary Fund, and I will do another good. In this case, I will refer to schizophrenia in the International Monetary Fund. Today it publishes a study that says that low income money produces a positive growth per euro over the next five years of 0.38%; instead, high income money produces a decrease of 0.1% over the next five years. It's an IMF study, I didn't make it up. Why? Because low incomes are economic assets and they devote their money and resources to consumption, to ordinary economic activity, while the rich save it, take it to tax havens or go find out where the money ends. So let us be aware of what we are talking about. Minister, I regret to say that your parliamentary group - you were the spokesman - ratified all these measures and decisions, including the royal decrees of 2012. We are not talking about a social policy in a ministry that has a deficit or has a cut, but about a model of coexistence and a concrete political project. His parliamentary group ratified it on a measure-by-measure basis, even though we were disillusioned in our parliamentary group. The reality is this, the reality is the survey of living conditions, the reality is what investment in childhood means and spending money on some or other things. What are we talking about at the end? We are talking about the capacity and competitiveness of a country, which cannot be allowed one third of its population to stay in the water or lose the talent of its children. With an economic model in which the future lies in innovation and where employment for the untrained is going to be very scarce, this country cannot afford that luxury. We can't have this in our childhood. In my opinion, this is the main emergency problem in the country in which we have to focus. Last morning they're going to take over in this country. The problem of child poverty and the risks of social exclusion for a very important part of our children are linked to the fearlessness of research cuts. Yesterday or the day before yesterday we saw in the media that there will be 40% cuts with the consequent cut in innovation. Innovation is the future. It's more than said, and everyone admits it. Innovation and education are the keys to the future. These are very serious problems which this Government has made scandalous in this legislature. Minister, it can be managed differently. Resources can be allocated in another way. Different tax reforms can be made, different education management can be made and not faced with all parliamentary groups, autonomous communities and the educational community.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u170	Mrs. Carcedo...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u171	It can't be. We have to manage in another way, thinking of the general interest. I'm done, Madam President. This is what I would like to move you, because your ministry has a very important responsibility, but the responsibility lies with the Government as a whole. The consequences for child poverty are not only from his ministry, which could only cover a little, but from all the blush that all these measures that I have just mentioned are producing on inequality and poverty. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Carcedo. Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Carcedo, it seems that you are now very impressed by the effects of the economic crisis that have left us. [[Applauds]] It is what there is; I do not think it is a thing to throw it at others, but to try to turn the situation around and maintain a certain coherence in the discourse so that we can understand each other, not mix it all up that way, because then it is very difficult to separate one from the other. It criticizes the labor reform and tax reform, and to do the X-ray of the situation of child poverty in Spain offers the data of the survey of living conditions, conducted in 2014 and which reflects the situation in 2013, after five years of continuous destruction of employment, when we definitely touched bottom and before the economy began the recovery of its positive numbers in 2014 and 2015. It's the worst time, it's the worst situation, and the data offered by the X-ray are really scary, it's bad. It is also clear what the causes are, and I would like to talk about that, but it is also clear that the cause of the 2013 situation cannot be the fiscal reform that came into force in 2015; it is very difficult that that is the cause or the reason, therefore, it is appropriate not to mix things up. You say that this tax reform does not favor families. If it favours families; families with children because it has introduced such a negative tax, these family checks; it favours families with dependents under their responsibility; it now also favours - because this extension was made - single-parent families with family responsibilities, who have dependent children, who in most cases are women who are alone with children. Therefore, it cannot be one thing cause of the other. Indeed, in Spain there is a serious and difficult situation, but what we now know is the image of 2013. Surely this has been corrected, because from there the employment data have gone to better and because already the first trimester EPA informs us that there are 185,000 households in which one of its members has found work; that is, we have about 185,000 fewer households in which no one works. We are therefore influencing the root cause of this increase in poverty. When one sees the survey of living conditions, he warns that it is the increase in the number of low-employment households; that is the fundamental change that occurred during those years and, therefore, that is also the root cause of the increase in the poverty rate as a result of the economic crisis. I want to mean that the rates of child poverty in Spain have been rising since 2005, before the beginning of the crisis, and I want to say this not to reproach you for anything, but because there is an increase in poverty that is very linked to the economic situation and to the unemployment situation that particularly affected those families that were in a situation of greater vulnerability and that therefore have to be given greater attention and protection - those who went to unemployment, who lost their jobs as a result of the collapse of the economic situation -; now there is a poverty for which there is no crisis or recovery because it is always there and feeds on itself. It is a structural poverty, families that are permanently at that exclusionary risk station. There was this before and there will be after we get out of the crisis and we are at employment rates like the ones we want to have. There may then be one, and I therefore believe that action must be taken on the basis of families, people who are constantly at risk of exclusion and who are a problem that needs to be thoroughly reformed, structural reforms in Spain. It seems to me very important to renew how the economic situation has been renewed, to put the country in competition, to create opportunities, to create employment and to encourage such employment to reach not only those who are better prepared or better prepared, but also groups who need support because their employment is more difficult; that it can reach many families so that, by regaining their jobs, they can regain their capacity, regain their autonomy and improve the situation of their children. But, in addition to that, we have to do a thorough study of what is happening, what is below and how we can change things in the future so that this situation of inequality, which is always latent in Spain, does not occur. I do not share some of his observations on educational reform, with the efforts made by the Ministry of Education during this legislature. A key objective has been sought, which is to reduce one of the root causes of inequality in Spain, which is early school leaving, that children do not drop out of their studies, that they can continue there and that they have other options. There has also been a significant increase in the number of boys and girls who wish to study vocational training, and that is significant. We must focus on the importance of deep structural reforms and not conform to the system that existed before, which led to a high rate of abandonment. If you compare this early school drop-out rate with the data linking the level of education to the level of unemployment, which are very clear, the link is very direct; to lower training, less chance of having a job, crisis or no economic crisis; if there is an economic crisis there is no employment for anyone, but when there is growth there is also often no employment for the less educated. In some sectors such as construction or hospitality, there were easy jobs, low-skilled jobs that were accessible to very young boys who left school and went to work there. We have begun that transformation, that change focused on the formation of the younger ones, on their qualification. This is a bottom-up prevention measure for those who may be in an exclusion situation in the future that will determine lack of income, lack of work intensity and, therefore, households with children at risk of poverty. We must combine, on the one hand, that economic policy which wants to create opportunities and jobs so that many people can regain their full autonomy and, on the other hand, reforms that go to the bottom of a poverty that is always latent. In the meantime, you have to help people have a bad time. Every euro that is invested - I agree with you - in a child who is in a difficult situation or to strengthen the situation of a family has an extraordinary impact and profitability in the future. Mrs Carcedo, I believe that things have begun to change and that an effort has been made in difficult times, in which we have fought against this economic crisis and the situation of collapse described earlier, to introduce some measures that can help people, especially those who have been left behind for a long time, who are suffering the most from difficulties, and who have been suffering the most from difficulties. You have launched the Preparation Plan and we have extended it and given it security. This measure has benefited 525,000 people and is an important measure. It also seemed to us that the field of dialogue with social actors was important to look for measures that could help the long-term unemployed, which is often where these poverty situations are concentrated. That is why we launched the special activation programme for employment, which is progressing - the Minister of Employment informed us in this House last week that there are more than ninety-four thousand applications -. And I'm gonna give you something new this week. One of the measures we have introduced in the Family Plan is an analysis of something that is not the competence of the State but that is of great concern and concern to all, and is our system of minimum income for inclusion. We have already secured funds in the European Union. We will participate in a programme to analyse, together with the European Union, the whole system of minimum income for integration in Spain, which comes under the responsibility of the autonomous communities, not only from a quantitative but also qualitative point of view. The programme will be implemented jointly with two other countries, Belgium and the United Kingdom. I believe that this will give us a good view of a situation which produces serious inequality in Spain according to the autonomous community in which you live, a situation which you know perfectly well, Mrs Carcedo, and which does not make it the same in one community as in another, because the resources available are not the same. This worries me extraordinarily. However, in view of what is said, the autonomous communities have made an extraordinary effort; they have been able to do so because they have been financially supported by the State at the most difficult times, when they had all the doors closed to financing and when public resources had collapsed. He recalled that between 2008 and 2013, the number of total minimum income earners increased by 81.53 per cent. Of course, this is not good news. I wish the number of people in need of minimum income would drop. But there is also a response from the various state administrations, and this has meant 280,000 new collectors. We need to see who gets to, how it covers, what the amount is, how it is managed; on this we need to make a serious study because behind this detailed analysis of something that, it is true, is not the competence of the State, we can have the keys to promote equal care, equal opportunities and equal fight against poverty in one place in Spain or another. I look forward to your cooperation in this work. I do not want to tell you very much about all the measures and programmes because I have told you many times. Many times we have come up to the rostrum to say that we have put one or other programme in motion. We have set up poverty funds and we have very important programmes for the prevention of this issue, for example, through the support provided under 0.7 of the IRPF. I want to say here, as this debate will continue, that I am deeply concerned about the situation in which third-sector entities may remain as a result, in my opinion, of somewhat irresponsible resources - it is not a responsibility of your group - which now determine the cancellation of aid for the maintenance and maintenance of third-sector social action entities. It is extraordinarily serious, like all those who want to destroy the possibility of 0.7. Every euro of 0.7 is targeting the prevention of inequality and enhancing that great social action network and I think we should have joint action to try to protect a system of social initiative participation in protection in Spain and in the fight against poverty, which is an excellent level and which we need to maintain in order to fight it all together. These were some reflections. This is what brought us the crisis. When the waters came down we saw how things were going, but I tell you one thing, Mrs Carcedo, there is a latent poverty that needs profound structural changes and reforms, which are what we need to discuss. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u174	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Carcedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u175	Thank you, Madam President. I couldn't resist it; I had brought it but I had left it in my seat. [[Show a chart]] The green color, the low rows, represents those who neither win nor lose; those who win are in the blues, the rich. [[Rumors]] Minister, Zapatero is not at the origin of the crisis. There is someone sitting in their seats who was managing one of the entities that was the source of the global financial crisis that led to all of this. Nor were we socialists amending the Soil Law, which triggered expectations of soil value and everything else that came after it, as well as the collapse of a productive system. It is true that the strategy for the activation of employment was approved with the social partners. Can anyone explain with mathematics, arithmetic, why unemployment protection continues to fall, why we are in 54.5% protection, so that one in two unemployed people does not have unemployment protection? And if the reference is not the registered unemployment but the EPA, we are in 30% protection, that is, only one in three unemployed has unemployment protection. That's family poverty and that's child poverty. Go to the latest data on the recorded unemployment and you will see how the percentage of the budget and the percentage of people protected by unemployment continues to fall by 17%, when in the previous year Mr Montoro put 5 billion in the budget for unemployment protection that Mrs Báñez did not implement. That's poverty; that's simple. We will talk about education and school drop-out; how this law is avoiding school drop-out and who stays in the education system. You'll see that, too. As for the minimum incomes, I agree with you that they are a very weak last network, but ask some of your autonomous presidents - some outside, although some still have a high responsibility in your party - why they have 3 per thousand coverage when the average is 13.7 per thousand, and Asturias has almost 30%, ten times more. Ask the future president of the Community of Madrid why it does not reach 10 per thousand coverage. You said that it depends on the autonomous community; no, on the political will of the governments of the autonomous communities. That's the thing. [[Applauds]] Soon I will focus on the affairs of your ministry. We have repeatedly pointed out here the terrible effect on the classic pillars of the welfare state of the three royal decrees of 2012. It is an imperative question to reverse that situation, because they defined criteria of universality that were eliminated and that are the key to equity and universal services, citizenship rights, and do not come to us here with stories. The law said that every person living in Spain has the right to health care, and now it is necessary to explain it with eighty thousand cases in an inexplicable question, since now Social Security has nothing to do with the financing of health care. These are general taxes, therefore, of general and universal services. As a result, structural changes in the welfare state are fundamental, because part of families with children are excluded; there are 800,000 people without papers who are excluded. I know that you have will and that you are working on this issue, which I think is very good, but the problem is there. As far as social services are concerned, the State cannot have reduced the concerted social services plan by 70% with the poverty figures we have.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u176	Mrs. Carcedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u177	Or that Mr Montoro has been captivated by the fact that social services are not municipal competence and lead to a situation of total uncertainty. I am surprised that you have not told me about the 32 million of the plan, which is only one euro per month for children below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u178	Mrs. Carcedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u179	I'm done. Minister, we will continue to discuss this issue in the motion, but I insist that this is not just a matter of your ministry; it is a question of political model, of all policies. I insist on that because I think it is a serious country problem. We cannot afford the situation of our childhood, because it is the key to the future. As I always say, this country should not continue to be a country that is not for children; this country should be for children, a country that looks at children and the future. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Carcedo. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u181	Thank you, Madam President. You must have in a pawn to Zapatero, who had never heard of anything, nor of what had happened, nor of the crisis that was coming, and the guilt of what was happening then was of the next minister of economics. Really, you guys have a skill... But it takes a lot of imagination for someone to believe that. And no one believes it. To fight poverty is to fight for people to have opportunities and the country to have the capacity to grow and create jobs, which is what the People's Party Government does. As the economic situation has been turned around, all that growth and the ability that Spain now has to gain opportunities is what it has to turn from a social point of view for many people to move forward. The goal is that there will be 20 million jobs at the end of the next parliamentary term; with 20 million jobs there will not only be many people who no longer have that income shortfall situation in their homes because they do not have jobs or have low employment intensity - which is what the living conditions survey tells us - because that guarantees a solid level of income for the public administrations that consolidate the major programmes to be made in the future and that, as you will understand, they cannot permanently depend on the deficit or on indebtedness because that is what puts at risk the major public services. Therefore, that is the largest, it is the most important thing to do, but from there we must also make policies and programmes. It seems a little 32 million, but it is more, a little bit more than zero euros, which is what you used to allocate to the poverty fund, because it did not exist; we believe it. The Government, from the first minute on, took a social option; the revenues had collapsed and the previous Government had fled unchecked because it knew that the situation no longer controlled it, that it had left its hands. The first decision taken by the Government in the coming week was to raise taxes to guarantee pensions and unemployment benefits, which were the two most important items in the budget, in addition to paying interest on the debt, which continues to weigh heavily - these were the three most important items in the budget -. Who did the taxes go to that first week? The ones who had the most, the richest. And when we did the reform of the income tax it was not to return what was raised; that reform has considered that the priority was middle income, low income and families who have responsibilities, who have children or who are caring for older dependents. That is to act with justice, that is to consider that the greatest effort in the crisis must be asked to the one who has the most, and that the greatest support in recovery must be given to the one who has the least opportunity to benefit from that recovery. That is what we have to do and that is how we have to focus the debate now so that it can reach each of the houses, especially those houses where no more euro comes in than the aid that the State can put in place, the Plan Prepares, the Plan of support for long-term unemployed, and even the income of the insertion of the autonomous communities, and sometimes the assistance of the organizations of the third sector, of the municipal or autonomous social services. That's where the priority has to be now. The approach of the Ministry of Employment, which we have put into the Family Plan, what has it incorporated? Active employment policies must be targeted especially at those who are unemployed and have family responsibilities, on whom a family depends, i.e. women and men who have to take a wage home. Active policies must be guided there, because that will make us more effective in combating the inequality of opportunities that many children have in our country. As you click on the topics I like best, I will tell you about the universality of health care in Spain. I would like to give this debate a final say. We have the largest universal care system in Europe, with certainty, and I am sure that with the latest improvements it will be the best organised. First, in Spain, all those who have legal residence are entitled to health care, except those who have an income of 100,000 euros. Whoever has more than 100,000 euros, we make him pay. I don't know if that sounds bad to you; I thought there was no discussion in that. [[Ms. Carcedo Roces utters words that are not perceived]] Those who do not have a legal residence status in our country but live in Spain, if they are minors or are pregnant women, have care on the same terms as a person with legal residence. [[Mrs. Cediel Martínez: No, no]] On the same terms. [[Mrs. Cediel Martínez: No, no]] Yes, ma'am. [[Mrs. Cediel Martínez: They are being denied]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u182	One moment, please. Madam Member, the debate is not with you. Okay? [[Mrs Cediel Martínez utters words that are not perceived]] No, Congresswoman. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u183	Yeah, I'm finishing up. On the same terms. This is what laws and what is done. With regard to people who are in a non-legal situation, I anticipate that we have already made much progress in the programme with the Autonomous Communities. Of course, they will be required to be registered for a period of time, although of course they will be treated equally in primary care and will have access to specialized care or community pharmacy, but the programme must necessarily be temporary and temporary. There are criteria that will set full-guarantee care for all, that will satisfy all public health requirements or any doubts in this regard, thinking especially about people, which is the most important thing. [[Applauds]] We do all this - bring the country out of ruin, put it to grow and create jobs - thinking about people, who are our families and the people we are with every day in each of our streets and squares. This is what worries the People's Party, the party I believe in, the party - always was - of humanism and the defence of the dignity of the person, and that is the most important thing. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u184	Thank you, Minister. - OF IU'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ICV-EUIA, CHA: THE PLURAL INVESTIGATION, ON THE NEED FOR A PARLIAMENTAL DEBATE ON POLITICAL CORRUPTION CASES DURING THIS LEGISLATION AND THE FINANCING OF POLITICAL PARTICULARS IN THE LAST 20 YEARS. [[File number 172/000322]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u185	We turn to the urgent appeal of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left on the need to hold a parliamentary debate on the cases of political corruption known during the current legislature and the financing of political parties over the past twenty years. For your defense and presentation, Mr. Centella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u186	Madam President, the intention, the reason for this question is clear and we have been repeating it for a long time: to use an instrument that allows us the Rules of Procedure so that this House can discuss the possible setting up of a committee to investigate parliamentaryly how political parties in this country have been financed. It is a little painful to have to use an instrument that would not be normal to provoke this debate; it would normally have been months ago if the Rules of Procedure allowed one or two groups to raise directly in plenary the possibility of setting up a commission of inquiry, but as the Rules of Procedure do not allow and the People's Party has used its absolute majority on the Board of Spokesmen to block this debate week after week, we have used this instrument to speak not only of the People's Party. Our proposal is not to investigate only the People's Party - it is not a cause of the People's Party - but how the parties have worked, how the parties in this country have been financed in recent years. We do so because we are not afraid and, as we are not afraid, we are not worried that we and everyone else will be investigated. The one who fears something is because something must. We propose that drawers, files and hard drives of computers be opened. For what? For citizens to know what they want to know, what they need to know, which is what has happened in this country so that at this time there are cases of corruption that arise daily. It is unusual that in this legislature, where more cases of corruption have been reported, not a single commission of inquiry has been set up. It is really unheard of that you have wanted to put forward a final point law without clarifying the past, and, as we have told you over and over again, that is not credible. It is not possible to look to the future if we do not clarify to people what has happened in this country. We can't bury a past that pops up day by day if we don't clear it up. In this case, I repeat, we cannot fail to apply the fact that if someone fears something it is because something must, and those who do not fear to facilitate this commission. It is true that you are somewhat frightened - even I would say that something panics - of a parliamentary investigation - no longer judicial, which has another way - to the extent that you have preferred to endanger the credibility of the House itself rather than allow a committee of inquiry to be set up, rather than allow the parliamentary debate to take place. At this point I am not going to be deluded, I am not going to think that you are going to give us the approval today, that you are going to approve this Commission, but I am sure that your position makes you more and more complicit than what is happening, makes you more and more complicit than what the courts are investigating. You will be able to say again that not next week and reject a proposal, but more and more will be shown than what happens is not that there are black sheep in the People's Party as there may be in any other party, it is not that there is already a flock of black sheep, but that you try not to investigate the relationship between corruption and financing. That is the key element: that there is increasing evidence that there has been a correlation between corruption and the financing of the People's Party. So what we want is to put the magnifying glass, focus on the relationship between corruption and how political parties are financed. The truth is that not a single day goes by without a new case of corruption, with the aggravating fact that they are known in times when tough policies are applied against the majority of the population, in times when citizens are asked for sacrifices, when they are asked for cuts and, yet, in parallel, cases of corruption are known that show that there is a double measuring rod for the internal and the external. They are not isolated cases, because they affect practically not only the whole of Spanish geography but, as I told them, also the party's own funding. Making a brief review of Spanish geography we can talk about Valencia, where - you know it better than I do - there are around 130 leaders of the People's Party who are being investigated, who have had judicial proceedings in which they are from former councillors to the president of a deputy or ex-mayor. The management that has been done in the Valencian Community has had a reflection in the ballot boxes and it is no coincidence that you are going to lose that community. But it has also had an impact on people's lives, on the management and looting of public television, on the construction of airports without planes. Cases such as the Brugal case or the Gürtel case show that you have not been able not to stop corruption but even to talk about it. We can talk about Galicia where there is the Pokemon case, which also affects another group in this House and which shows how the People's Party has been structurally linked to corruption in Galicia. What are we going to tell you about Madrid, where the Gürtel plot surrounds its widths, as in Valencia. [[A Member of Parliament: We can talk about Rivas...]] Yes, sir, we can talk about anything you want. If the problem is that you don't want to talk; the problem, and hence your screams, is that you don't want to talk. We don't care because we don't have anything to hide in Rivas or anywhere else. We want everyone to be investigated; we also want to be investigated because we fear nothing. The one who fears is the one who's blocking the investigation. We can also talk about Castile and León, we can talk about what happened in Burgos, what happened in Navas del Marqués, what happened in many other places. We can talk about the Palma Arena case, the Scala case, the Bitel case; we can talk about many more. All this, to be serious, is not the most serious. The most serious thing is what Judge Ruz, who is not exactly a militant of our political formation, has pointed out in relation to the roles of Bárcenas and who has put in writing in a car, and is that there is a B box of the People's Party and that he considers the People's Party to be responsible civil subsidiary. Therefore, the existence of a B box of a political party linked to cases of corruption is what we are really concerned about, which really puts the magnifying glass and the need for it to be investigated, to be clarified. If you have nothing to fear, if you have no problem, what problem is there to investigate? Because we can't talk about court cases. One thing may not be illegal and not be ethical; one thing may have no problem in the judiciary, among other things - as is also said - because at that time it may not be criminalized, and it may be morally deplorable. Citizenship has the right to know what has happened. Democracy is strengthened to the extent that there is trust and it must be recognized that there is no such trust today, that it must be restored and that it must be done with transparency, clarifying what has happened and, from there, obviously, that which has made it pay, wherever it is. There you will always find us, it is we who do not find you, who day after day block the debates and the committees of inquiry. I repeat, a single commission of inquiry, not one every week, not one every month, but a single commission where it passes from the General Coordinator of the United Left to the President of the People's Party. And not only the old parties, but also the newly created parties would have to give explanations; everyone would have to give explanations, because from there it is when the situation could be recovered. When a judge points out 1.5 million euros as the black money that the People's Party could pay for the works of its headquarters, that has to be investigated legally and politically. We put the magnifying glass in political corruption, but there is something obvious and it is that behind someone who buys there is an interest; nobody sells it if nobody buys it and, therefore, when someone has sold themselves, from the People's Party or from another political group, it is because someone has bought it to get something. In this country there are many people who have lost the house, the job; there is a country that has been ruined and, behind that ruin, there is a lot of corruption and people have to know who has ruined them, people have to know who has bought the politician, because behind a politician who sells himself there must always be someone who buys him, and you want to cover not only political research, perhaps because you are afraid that you will know who the buyers are before you even know who the corrupt are; perhaps you owe more to those who buy than even those who have sold themselves. That is why our group is going to present a very simple motion next week proposing that a committee of inquiry be set up, that parliamentary investigations be carried out, that justice should do its work, that it should reach as far as possible, according to the laws that exist, but that citizens should know from this house how the political parties have been financed, that citizens should know from this house what has happened in this country with public accounts and, from there, I repeat, that every stick should hold its candle. Our group is willing to endure its candle, but it is clear that the People's Party, to this day, has not been able to endure its own. For something it will be, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u187	Thank you, Mr. Centella. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u188	Thank you, President. Mr Centella, you are proposing at this time the holding of a parliamentary debate on the cases of political corruption known during this parliamentary term and on the financing of political parties in the last twenty years and, being the relevant subject, being an issue that impacts on the whole of Spanish society and that is genuine evidence, I think you know, Your Honor, that along with economic policy, economic affairs, that has been precisely the most important backbone of government action during this parliamentary term and of parliamentary activity. There have been many initiatives in this House that have had to do with the development of anti-corruption measures. I am sure that we all want to see these changes materialized and that they do not remain in words or commitments but in real realities. That is why I believe, Your Honor, that your inquiry comes rather late and goes far behind what the Government has been pushing for over the past three and a half years. The president of the government - you said he wanted to discuss the financing of the political parties and the People's Party - in this legislature he has appeared twice in Congress to deal precisely with these matters and to this he referred very clearly in the monographic intervention that there was on corruption on November 27, 2014. Remember, Your Honor, that at that time two bills of great importance were presented: that of control of economic and financial activity of political parties and the regulator of the activity of high offices. Then the president said something like that we were not in the presence of another reform, a reform of the many that the government is doing in this legislature, but it is the most important, the most complete and the one that is called to exert greater influence. Indeed, that is the case, no matter, except perhaps that of overcoming the crisis and unemployment, has involved more dedication in the Government and in the People's Parliamentary Group than the fight against corruption. And of all the reforms that we have carried out during this time: financial reform, energy, labour reform, public administration reform, none, in my opinion, will mark both the future of our country and the reforms carried out to ensure a healthy public life, a transparent public life and institutions that are regenerated and fully representative of what is today a real citizen demand. This has also been, Your Honor, out of conviction, not only out of demand, but out of conviction, the objective of the government's policy since the first Council of Ministers, which, on 30 December 2011, already proposed a reform of the Organic Law on the Financing of Political Parties by reducing the State subsidy they received and the allocation of its amount to Parliament. Control measures on the financing of political parties were also incorporated by restricting who could make donations and prohibiting the cancellation of bank debts above 100,000 euros. This was only the first of a series of initiatives that have evolved towards an institutional and political model consistent with citizens' demands for greater transparency and greater rigour in the management of public resources. In the first hundred days of government, the transparency bill was introduced, which affected, as you know, political parties, trade union organizations, business organizations, including the House of His Majesty the King, an absolutely pioneering rule, and also the first documents of the reform of the Criminal Code, which created new types to punish the concealment, simulation and falsification of public accounts. It also restored the criminal responsibility of political parties, something that had surprisingly been eliminated in the 2010 reform. In addition to the commitment expressed by the President of the Government in his inaugural session and in the session held on 1 August 2012, there have been permanent offers of dialogue in all the debates of the nation on this subject, in the debates of 2013 and 2014. In that search for consensus born of the conviction that we should be able to work together in this area, we have tried to recover and welcome contributions from your ladies and gentlemen and from the various groups. I do not think that this exercise of dialogue and this exercise of seeking consensus has been in vain; it is true that some groups have denied their radical collaboration with the Government, but in any case the initiatives have been put forward, they have been dealt with in this House, they have been debated and they have been adopted. The result of all this is a much more demanding regulatory framework, which I am convinced guarantees far better than the previous one that certain conduct will not occur again than justice, even with the previously imperfect tools, is currently prosecuting, knowing and sentencing. There are many changes that we have made in this Parliament in this area, Your Honor, and I will mention them even if it is very succinctly. First, the Organic Law 3/2015, on control of the activity and financing of political parties, because it improves the regulation of the channel through which donations can be made to political parties. It clarifies what a donation to a political party is; it clearly establishes the prohibition of donations to parties from legal persons, companies, and also prohibits debt forgiveness by credit institutions. It considerably broadens - and you have mentioned this, Your Honor - the economic and accounting information which, in accordance with the principle of transparency, political parties must make public; it regulates the figure of the person responsible for the economic and financial management of the parties and the appearance of this person before the Joint Committee of the Court of Auditors. The introduction in financial matters of serious, very serious and minor offences and the appropriate sanctions for such offences seem to me to be very relevant. Therefore, under Organic Law 3/2015, all information on the financing of political parties will be provided, and this has been done by this Government and has been done by the People's Parliamentary Group in support of the adoption of this law. He was also told that the reform of the Organic Law 1/2015 of the Criminal Code has once again brought on the table the criminal responsibility of legal persons and, in particular, political parties, incorporating in articles 304 bis and a new specific criminal type that criminalizes the conduct of illegal financing of political parties. Therefore, this reform promoted by this Government and the People's Parliamentary Group will punish those who accept, receive or deliver donations or contributions to a political party in violation of the law on the financing of political parties, and penalties of up to four years' imprisonment and fines of up to five times the value of the defendant or the person received may be imposed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is only a small sample of the many actions that have taken place in the area of corruption in this legislature: greater control, greater demands, greater transparency and more information on the accounts of all political parties, and not only political parties but also senior management officials because they also undoubtedly constitute a relevant professional stratum that makes important decisions with economic content and that must be monitored and monitored. That is why the Law on the Statute of the High Commissioner establishes a systematized regulation of the requirements, conditions, characteristics, controls and guarantees that must be applied in the exercise of the function of high office in the General Administration of the State. That is why the Penal Code, to which I referred earlier, also incorporates special disqualification for public office in the case of the commission of crimes by officials. In short, ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear increase in penalties in all these offences, with the punishment of corruption offences being reinforced in the public administration. Secondly, I want to highlight the strengthening of the institution of confiscation, so that we can confidently say to the citizens that until the last euro of the stolen money is returned, the convicted person does not return to the street, because there will be no application of prison benefits if all the financial liabilities have not been fulfilled or the economic damage caused has not been repaired. It could continue with many more initiatives that demonstrate what I am saying here, the firm commitment of the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group to constitute a legal regime that prevents the commission of corruption crimes. For example, the upcoming creation of the asset recovery agency, the new confiscation regulation and some other measures. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to raise a debate on these issues, they are all on the table here, all of which have already been adopted and are beginning to bear fruit. If what you are asking us is to supplant the action of justice, to condition it with pronouncements of this House or to confine ourselves to a specific case of the many you have mentioned, then I really believe, Your Honor, that we would be doing the wrong service to society. There have been many debates in that legislature; legislative and governmental actions, much more. I therefore hope that this debate today will not be a superfluous gesture, but that it will allow us to recognise the whole path that we have taken over the past three and a half years in this area and to convey to all the citizens that from Parliament and from the Government we are taking steps to make the margins of impunity for the commission of these corruption crimes ever smaller and we will not have to know, as we have certainly known, so many cases in recent times. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u189	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Centella.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, starting with what we agree with, I agree with you that this debate is late and bad. It is late because this issue should have been resolved months ago and the committee should have been set up months ago. Moreover, it is bad because it would not have to be an inquiry, but simply an ordinary item on the agenda. From there, with everything else you've said I can't agree. We have not presented an inquiry into measures to be taken against corruption. We have not raised that question, but we want to discuss what measures can be taken to counter political corruption. We have a debate with the Government on two very specific issues, one of which is corruption. You tell me that the president has already come in November 2014, but do you know how he came? He came to introduce some laws and took the opportunity to talk about something else. The President of the Government, who may appear in the House whenever and in whatever format he wishes, chooses the format of the presentation of laws to speak of something else because he did not dare to hold a debate on corruption. And it wasn't a monographic debate, as you said; it was a debate to present two laws. That was the debate and the way the Government chose to talk about corruption. Is the government willing to come and talk about corruption without caps? That's the first question we ask him. And the second one refers to why the Government, in accordance with Rule 52 of the Rules of Procedure of this Congress, has not proposed the creation of a commission of inquiry. These are the two questions we ask you, and that is the debate. The People's Party government has been able to do many or few things, but it lacks the main thing: to gain credibility, not its own, but that of the whole House. You haven't won it because you can't talk about the future without looking to the past and clarifying it. They can't tell the Spaniards that we've been through the past, no matter how much I come back, and look to the future, because people aren't about the work. To talk about the future - we have talked and we will talk - we need to clarify the past. There are many people who are unemployed, without housing, who are having a very bad time because of a crisis that, among others, has been caused by the corrupt and has a right to know what has happened. You say we want to supplant the action of justice, but then, Your Honor, there would be no commissions of inquiry. I have made it clear that we do not want to judge crimes, but rather to clarify, to investigate politically what has happened and to ensure that justice follows its path. A commission of inquiry does not judge, investigate, so we do not want to supplant anyone, but you do want to supplant the government's control work that this House has to do and you want to do it for a no on the Board of Spokesmen. What we briefly propose - and you can reply - is why the Government, in accordance with Rule 52 of the Rules of Procedure, has not promoted the creation of a commission of inquiry in this House. Why hasn't the government done it? It is their political obligation, something that requires a lot of people in this country. And if they don't, they're on the side of political complicity; if they don't, it's because they're afraid, because if they don't, they wouldn't be afraid of anything and they'd be the first to set up that commission. The debate is on the street and it is a debate that is made with half truths, half lies. Would it not be better for us to do so in the House, with light and stenographers, and not in the media, in the context of defamation? Secondly, do not force us to ask the President about corruption in the next debate in Europe. Let the president come and hold a clear debate and not like that of 2014, which - I repeat - was not a debate on corruption, but to present two laws that the president did not introduce and use that time for something else. If a president of the government at this stage, with an absolute majority, has to stretch the Rules of Procedure to talk about corruption, something fails. Indeed, what has failed has been the will of the Government to look at its past, perhaps because if it looks at the past something very dark can happen. I repeat that our question is simply whether you, the Government, are prepared to push a commission of inquiry and appear before the House to talk about corruption. That is the debate and it is certainly not superfluous, because what you say below will not be superfluous, it will be a yes or a no to what millions of Spaniards are asking for. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u191	Thank you, Mr. Centella. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u192	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Centella, I understand from your speech that you believe that the only way to address corruption-related issues is to put forward a committee of inquiry and a debate here in the Congress of Deputies. I am sure that something can certainly be done, but I have tried to explain to you what we have already done for three and a half years, not just words, but facts and, above all, legislative reforms that allow us today to have a much more intense, strict and rigorous regulatory framework than before. In the meantime, you have continued to talk about the need for a committee of inquiry and even some of you said that contributing to the improvement of those reforms - in the sense of bringing ideas and amendments and even voting them affirmatively when we were talking about transparency in the financing of political parties - would be nothing more than washing the face of the government. If you believe that democratic regeneration projects are made to wash the face of the Government, that shows how you understand legislative action and what the Government and Parliament of the nation should aim to achieve. It is precisely because of the support of the majority group in this House that the Government has continued to adopt many reforms and measures that allow us today to be very satisfied with the balance sheet of this legislature in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, there has not been a government in Spain that has faced corruption with more determination and with more tangible and measurable facts than the government that is responding to them. Our policy has gone directly to the problem and we have not been left in demagogy or rhetoric. We have addressed all approaches to this issue from transparency, with very strict transparency systems, and from the requirement to raise the list to those who carry out public responsibilities. We have raised the penalties, we have defined new types in the Penal Code and we have established all kinds of firewalls - if I may say so - around political parties so that their funding is not a bridgehead from which corruption towards the Administration is then filtered out. We have also addressed something very relevant, which is corruption in the private sphere - because there is also corruption in the private sphere - by incorporating the criminal responsibility of legal persons and political parties. We have therefore put in place a series of measures aimed at ensuring that corruption does not result in the offender being free of charge and that confiscation allows us to recover the object or result of the crime. You ask us for another debate to keep talking about this. We would like to know what more they are willing to do in addition to that debate. I do not believe that your honor supports the idea that corruption is no longer being investigated in Spain today by whom, by the Security Forces and Bodies, by the Attorney General's Office and by judges and courts. At the moment I think we can say with all satisfaction that the institutions have worked and are working and that today in Spain no one can stay out of the reach of the courts, no one, regardless of their ideology, their public responsibility, their private activity or their alcurnia. All Spaniards are under the control of the judiciary, especially in this type of crime. Therefore, we will continue to work in this regard, implementing the laws that have been passed in this legislature and equipping the judiciary with all personal and material means so that it can do its work properly. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to join this project and this change, you have the opportunity to do and not only to debate, because that which was one of the top historicals of the left, to do and not only to debate, seems to have left it in the hands of others today. Today you have the opportunity in all the municipal and autonomous governments that are being incorporated into this culture and these measures. We will be delighted that all these laws to which I have referred are also transferred to the municipal and autonomous level in order to bring about a genuine democratic regeneration in all the institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u193	We then moved on to the debate on motions arising from urgent appeals that could not be heard yesterday. First of all, the motion of the Socialist Group for an inquiry into the need for fair growth. For your presentation and defence, Mr Moscoso del Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u194	Thank you, Madam President. As you know very well, last week we questioned the Minister of Economy and Competitiveness, Mr De Guindos, because we do not share at all the euphoria with which the government assumes economic recovery, a euphoria that does not sympathize with the three great weaknesses of this recovery. First, a very unjust social economic policy, with a growth model based on precarious employment and low wages, which puts at risk the sustainability of the welfare state and increases inequality and poverty. Secondly, a growth model that creates very serious doubts about its sustainability in the medium and long term, because it does not contribute to improving productivity, which is the basis of sustainable quality employment and high wages, and does not have the necessary effort to strengthen businesses and the productive sector in general. And the third weakness is institutional, because it does not have the confidence of intangible capital that sustains any recovery, which is the regulatory fabric. The regulation does not live up to the circumstances following a legislature in which the Government of the People's Party has colonized the Tax Agency and so many other important entities of the State that regulate and control the proper functioning of the economy. Therefore, in this motion we want to talk about the risks of recovery, which does occur, but with very serious risks. The first is inequality. The internal devaluation must be remembered, that employment is still 15% lower than before the crisis and that only 6% of contracts are indefinite. It should also be remembered that, for example, in 2014, although employment grew by 3%, social security collection only increased by 1%, given its precariousness. Secondly, poverty. The poorest have been impoverished, households in the first and second lines of income distribution. Spain is the second country in Europe with the highest rates of child poverty, after Romania. 22% of the Spanish population live below the poverty line and 45% of the unemployed do so. For the first time, as we said the other day, according to the living conditions survey, an average retiree enters more every month than an average occupied one, which is something unprecedented in our recent and total economic history. This reduces equal opportunities and opportunities, i.e. less equality and less opportunities. Of course, the third weakness is the absence of reforms to strengthen economic growth. The Government is only concerned about the mirage of short-term growth. This week, for example, the episode of failing to find a just solution for Greece has sufficed for the Spanish debt differential to grow again above the European average, showing that the exogenous factors that have made us grow - the devaluation of the euro, the interest rates and the price of oil - as soon as they are reversed, can lead us to the trouble with our weak recovery. That is why we are proposing - and we are doing so forcefully - the need to implement a different economic policy, alternative, solvent, transformative, that promotes sustainable growth other than the current one and that modernises the institutions, as well as to face up to the problems of inequality, poverty, low productivity, high structural unemployment, precariousness and public indebtedness, which has only grown in this legislature of the People's Party Government. That is why we are proposing this motion, which contains thirteen points which I will summarise briefly because they constitute the main axis of the economic programme that the Socialist Party is preparing, which seeks to achieve a different government in November and fair growth. Firstly, to defend greater fiscal and political integration with a budget for the eurozone and with the issuance of Eurobonds, as well as with another mandate for the European Central Bank, before the European institutions. Secondly, rebalancing Spanish fiscal policy so that, while meeting the objectives committed to the European Union, they are done in a different way, without making the exclusive adjustment on expenditure, but by thoroughly reviewing the tax system, to achieve more public revenue without increasing the tax burden on workers and middle classes, and to broaden the tax bases of companies, combating fraud and tax avoidance more forcefully and not with examples such as that given by the tax amnesty of this government. Thirdly, reinforce the important but very weak and inefficient Juncker Plan with investment policies, different reindustrialization policies, complemented with vocational training and in concert with companies to be able to occupy the hundreds of thousands of employees looking for work. Of course, we need another technological policy, another innovation policy and a decisive policy of support for SMEs, with other lines of credit to finance the circulation and to finance their problems at the time of the discount and, of course, with more powerful ICO lines. Fourthly, a genuine second chance law, something we are now discussing. It should be remembered that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs was suspended yesterday because there is no agreement between the Government and its parliamentary group on this issue. You Members of the Group of the European People's Party have to demand a real second chance law that will put an end to the indebtedness of so many entrepreneurs, self-employed people and families so that they can re-establish their lives without liquidated their assets, without returning and losing their homes; a law that does not discriminate in favour of commercial societies and against self-employed people and entrepreneurs according to the types of credit, as my group has been defending. Of course, we must place R & D+i as a political priority, recover the research talent that has left our country, be truly credible in climate change policy, put in place state plans for sustainable rehabilitation of buildings and housing, and save energy and create jobs. Investment in active employment policies must be increased. Our unemployed are literally abandoned by the government, which is unable to support the creation and strengthening of human capital for our businesses. Something needs to be done for the youth guarantee, something that we constantly demand and that is still not being implemented. A shock plan must also be put in place for the long-term unemployed. In addition, much more can be done in rural growth, sustainable and balanced growth in the territory, cultural policy and labour policy. We recently announced our main measures of reform of the labour market, to recover collective bargaining, to eliminate some types of recruitment, to raise the interprofessional minimum wage...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u195	Mr. Moscoso.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u196	... in order to achieve true equality - I finish, Madam President - between men and women in the labour market, to guarantee competition in the markets for goods and services - as I said, the obstacles in a legislature in which progress has not been made in this direction follow, and to end the party invasion of the regulatory bodies. In short, it is a complete agenda for safe growth, for the safe recovery of those who want to be and will be the alternative to what we have been through in these four years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u197	Thank you, Mr. Moscoso. No amendments have been tabled and we therefore move on to position-setting. Firstly, for the Joint Group, Mr Larreina.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Moscoso, you have tabled a motion which corresponds to the lower side of the legislature. [[The Lord]] We're closing the legislature, this is already going down. It makes a kind of general approach, more thinking of the electoral campaign than of reality. Undoubtedly, it is difficult to say no to what you propose, but at the same time it is very general. It's kind of like a letter to the wise men. In fact, the title itself is very significant: a new alternative, solvent and transformative policy, which promotes sustainable growth, which modernizes institutions, which faces the problem of inequality, poverty, low productivity, high structural unemployment, job insecurity and public and private indebtedness. This is the whole picture and we say that we need to change government, and that is where we can agree. At the same time, I see some general shortcomings in the Spanish State by all political groups, such as denying the reality of a complex State, which is made up of differentiated societies that have other ways of conceiving the State's own organization, and the very way of doing politics. You talk about the need for this European institutional reform, that is to say, to change European policy. There we also agree with you. But we also see important absences, because for us this European institutional reform involves a deep democratisation of the structures of the European Union. That is, that the European Bank is a real European bank; that the European Parliament is a real European Parliament; that the Commission is a real government, subject to the popular will of a parliament. In short, a thorough reform, but also a reform that recognises the complex reality of the European Union. We continually - and you have heard this from me on other occasions - raise the need for the European Union to also address what has been called internal enlargement; that is, to respond to a real problem that exists right now within the European Union, which arises in the case of Scotland, in the case of Flanders, Catalonia, Euskal Herria, areas of the European Union where we feel deeply European, which we want to remain European, but which we want to be in Europe in another way. That is an important element of such institutional reform, because it also influences the way European policies and policies are to be done; whether they are to focus on citizenship or are to focus more on markets; whether they are to focus on the natural realities of Europe or are to focus on other areas. The same could be said if we transferred it to the Spanish State. We also see, for example, that there is a lack of measures that contemplate the plurinational reality of the State; even the areas of competition that exist right now, both in fiscal policy and in education policy, etc. And we see that in your proposals there is always a total absence referring to these issues, which are real and that they exist right now; it is not what you can wish for, what my political group can wish for, but what exists institutionally right now. That is an element that has to be considered in its political force and in the general political forces of this House, which do not represent citizens of these different societies that I said before. In principle, we shall abstain in this motion. Although we agree with the substance of it, with our abstention we would like to stress the need for them to address those issues. The future of the State cannot be addressed with the previous fees that have been followed so far. It is important to address that future of the State from that perspective of reality; that is, the reality of differentiated societies, the recognition of those realities and the recognition that such citizenship has the right to decide its own future. That is a fundamental element; if not, we will always be, we will often be using those fundamental political problems to cover up the real problems of citizenship, for not addressing that strengthening of the welfare state, that strengthening of policies that focus primarily on social justice. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Larreina. Mr Azpiazu has the floor for the Basque Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is bringing us back to this House an initiative with the intention of discussing the need for a reorientation or change in economic policy; a change, as the initiative says, to make the growth it generates more just economic growth. In view of a proposal put forward in these general terms, we have no choice but to say that we agree with most of the measures proposed. And little more could be said, since if we devote a minimum of time to each measure, we would need, at least from my ability, a minimum hour to fix our position sensibly, but since I have only five minutes, little more I can point out. Following the socialist custom, which we do not like, brings us a proposal with fifteen points and many measures in each of them; a whole programme of government, as Mr Moscoso has said, difficult to assess and on which it is difficult to set a position with a certain level of detail. An electoral or government program that maybe in a few months they can try to start but which, frankly, to present as a motion seems to me an excess. From the Basque Group we have on more than one occasion, as the Socialist Group is well aware, called for an in-depth review of economic policy and a genuine shift towards it. In our view, the European Union has erred in the design and implementation of economic policy because of the lack of instruments, the lack of an overall vision, the excessive defence of the interests of a few, for these and many other things. Only when the water has reached the European Union around its neck - we will see if this happens in the case of Greece, which is already quite above it - did it take a step in the right direction, either by buying assets, as the European Central Bank does, or by making fiscal criteria for meeting the public deficit more flexible. Always late. In the end, it had no choice but to take the measures that we demanded many and that are reasonable from the point of view of economic policy, but it was late. Therefore, to demand a more expansive policy from Europe, as the United States has done, would surely have avoided a great deal of unnecessary suffering and would have helped us to get out of the real economic crisis, so we must raise this issue. There would be, as the motion says, Eurobonds, a more expansive budgetary policy, a more committed EIB, a more expansive Community budget, etc. In any case, measures committed to the exit from the crisis. What I don't know if he will be or should be in this game is the Juncker Plan, which they haven't been able to explain to us and which seems to have disappeared before it started. We want a change in economic policy with realities, not with occurrences. We also fully share that growth, I do not know if it is the right word, but it must be inclusive, inclusive and positive growth for all those who have experienced it worse in these years of the economic crisis. Inequalities generated and high unemployment have affected the weakest, the least qualified, women, young people, those over the age of 45, and ultimately the most unprotected. Wage insecurity and working conditions, the poverty that has been generated in so many areas, from child poverty to energy, the marginalization that this implies must be corrected and considered when establishing economic policy for inclusive and fair economic growth. In this regard, they propose to review labour reform, support vocational training, R & D, the fight against fraud, the in-depth review of the tax system, a system in which they pay more than they have the most, those with the most capacity, based on criteria of solidarity and fiscal progressivity, palliative, inclusive spending policies, etc. With all of them we agree - how not - and seem necessary to us. Little more can we say by fixing the position on a motion. However, in order to put these measures into operation, it is necessary, as I said, to enter into the details of things, in the impact of them, in the costs, in the coherence of these policies so that they are not annulled with each other or have contradictory effects. I mean, you have to study it carefully. Today we simply press the situation and comment on a first impression. An example of the consistency of this which I am commenting on and which in this case is not given is that many policies - as you will understand, the Socialist Group and Mr Moscoso know perfectly well - must also be implemented by the autonomous communities. For example, industrial policy, housing policy and so many others, and not only because of a question of competition - which is not little to respect the competition margins - but because it is also an issue of policy effectiveness, by efficiency.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u201	Mr. Azpiazu, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u202	I'm done, Mr. President. Soon, with a new government, with a new Commission, we will have to talk about these issues. From the Basque Group we want and we are going to do it because it is very important, because we still have plenty of time to get out of the crisis. For all this, we shall vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u203	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Calduch has the floor on behalf of the Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion put forward by the Socialist Group brings together - as has already been said by my previous colleagues - a number of proposals aimed at solving the main problems and ills facing the Spanish economy and society: structural unemployment, poverty and growing social inequality, the modernisation of institutions, productivity improvements and so on. Who would not support such proposals? Who would reject measures aimed at improving the lives of Spaniards? Of course, the UPyD Parliamentary Group, no. That is why we have already moved that we support this motion, not just because of its content or because it is proposed by the main opposition party, but because it is consistent with our own parliamentary history, because, in fact, our parliamentary group does not make illustrious expectations about what will happen in our country the day after this motion is adopted or rejected. Since the previous legislature we have been proposing many of the measures included in this motion and some not included, such as the one-time indefinite contract, without the Socialist Government, chaired by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero or the current Government of the People's Party having been pleased to consider the proposals we were making. In the previous legislature we were already calling for a profound fiscal reform, accompanied by an effective fight against fraud, which, in addition to ensuring a fairer redistribution of wealth, would allow income to be increased so as not to drastically cut public spending, which has already happened with the measures adopted in 2010 by the Socialist Government and have, of course, continued with the People's Government to date. Similarly, we defended the maintenance of public spending on R & D+i, which has been systematically recuperating since 2010, not only because it is a necessary precondition for changing our country's productive model, but also because there is an abusive disproportionate ratio between the scarce budgetary impact of these cuts and the serious, sometimes irreversible, effects that occur in the research community and in the continuity of the scientific projects already initiated. A reform of the Workers' Statute is proposed, which is said to serve to repeal the labour reform carried out by the current Government, but the Socialist Parliamentary Group itself has opposed the implementation of the single indefinite contract, which is already recommended by both the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. Similarly, they point out that one of the central points of this statutory reform should be the rise in the inter-professional minimum wage, but last week their group opposed a proposal for an amendment which we made to the non-legislative proposal that they had submitted and in which we urged them to support an annual increase in the inter-professional minimum wage of at least 3% over the next three years. To conclude this intervention, I will tell you that our group supports this motion in defence of the general interests of the Spaniards and in coherence with our own parliamentary trajectory, not because we believe that if socialists ruled they would honour the proposals of this motion. As for the People's Group, we leave it with political responsibility that with its absolute majority I decide the final destination of this motion, a result on which our group will not take any surprises. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Calduch. For the Group of the Plural Left, Mr Garzón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our group welcomes this motion, the content of which is in line with many of the previous motions, non-legislative proposals and initiatives in general that express a desire to change the direction of economic policy, although they would not exactly coincide with the general ideas of our parliamentary group. We have to add - not by terminological precision, but because it seems very relevant to us - that we do not believe that there is at this time an economic recovery. Important concepts, such as the difference between economic growth and economic development, need to be regained again. The fact that economic growth is measured by gross domestic product does not have to be manifested in better living conditions for the social majority. In fact, we are witnessing a type of growth model that it does is to move towards the precariousness of labour relations and of life as a whole for the majority of the citizens of our country. I therefore do not think that the bells should be thrown into flight because the gross domestic product, which is still an accounting indicator, is showing increases. The truth is that in the end what must lead us to policy is to visualize the concrete reality, and the concrete reality means precariousness, the precariousness of 90 % of the contracts that are signed being of a temporary nature, the precariousness of the fact that since 2008 the number of contracts of a single day of duration has doubled and, ultimately, the extension of work formulas - and therefore life formulas - that imply that people have to live on a leap of death, bringing together contracts that sometimes are for hours, that involve so much uncertainty, that pressure is put on, that the citizen is economically driven to leave the country without that being his will, simply by the circumstances. In the face of this event, what we propose is in line with the point made in this motion but goes further, because, if not, this remains in a simple desideratum of good intentions, which is not accompanied - it should not be so because it is a motion - of a consistent budget or an economic strategy, because the problem is not short-term, but of a structural nature; it has to do with international relations, with the role of the European Central Bank, with the role of international and European institutions. And that, ultimately, is not in contradiction, it is not highlighted here, but it seems to us that it should be because that is where the root of the problems lie, which have to do with a model of growth that is being imposed and that leads us to a model of deeply regressive society, and that model of growth we have to counter to a homogeneous and well-distributed model, which is for all and for all, and not for a few. This is done with policies of this nature - and that is why we are going to approve this motion - but it must be inserted into a more ambitious strategy that calls into question Spain's own form of integration into the European Union, the way of understanding the relations between workers and employers, because it cannot be allowed for longer that it is the large companies that are determining the nature of structural reforms and that this is deepening the workers' problem and favouring the increase in profits in billions of the thirty-five companies in Ibex without this fact being manifested positively, much less, in society, but quite the opposite. We therefore welcome the contents of this motion, which are insufficient - they are not sufficiently concrete, we would add - but we believe that they are in the line of challenging the economic policy of the People's Party, which is the policy, above and below, of the European institutions, whose bottled mistakes have led us to this situation. Let us no longer insist on that path, and let us learn from something we have insisted on enough in these four years that we have almost been in the legislature, and it is that the direction of the economic policy of the People's Party is a very good course, but only for a few. And as we in this plenary and in this Parliament are supposed to represent the whole of society, we call again for the reorientation and radical change of policies of the People's Party. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mr Picó has the floor for the Catalan Parliamentary Group. [[Convergence and Union]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u208	Thank you, Mr. President. As much as some macroeconomic data are improving - and so it is - it can never be said that the crisis is over. The terrible data on unemployment that are still being maintained, especially in the case of young people and over 50 years of age, together with the high number of people who have been unemployed for too many years, do not allow my parliamentary group to share the joys that some have expressed and continue to express. We cannot place ourselves in satisfaction when the family and personal situation of many citizens continues to be dramatic; the data of poverty persist and inequality continues to widen. It is impossible, ladies and gentlemen, to be satisfied with this situation. The Socialist Group is presenting its economic prescriptions with this motion, with generalist proposals such as the necessary re-industrialisation, the drive for research, the increase in the allocation of active employment policies, the adoption of a plan to combat long-term unemployment, the reduction of cultural VAT, among others. Mr Moscoso has devoted his speech to explaining the points proposed, and I think he has done a good analysis of the situation. But, Mr Moscoso, you cannot ask the rest of the political forces represented in this House to adhere to your proposals, and I say this to you from the perspective that we can generally share many of those that you have proposed through the motion put forward, but if we go into depth in the analysis of these proposals my parliamentary group can put many differentiating accents. I'll give you some examples. The last point of the motion, which concerns effective competition in the markets for goods and services, contains not a single reference to the Market Unity Act, a law to which my parliamentary group - and also yours - have radically opposed and opposed. I would like to remind you that we are talking about a totally interventionist law, a totally bureaucratic law, a law that completely violates the competences of the autonomous communities, and a uniformizing and centralizing law that seeks to assume the competences as I say of the autonomous communities in many normative aspects, in order to erase them from the map or try to eliminate them. No reference in his motion. For example - Mr Azpiazu was also referring to this - his motion talks about speeding up implementation and effectively implementing the youth guarantee programme. It speaks of a comprehensive reindustrialization policy. It refers to the rural environment, among other things, but in none of these cases - in none of these cases, Mr Moscoso - are considered the competences of the autonomous communities in these matters. I'll give you the example of Catalonia. Catalonia has competence in industry, employment and agriculture, and there is no reference, Mr Moscoso, to the autonomous communities in the points you have proposed. Two examples as I say to you among many others that I could put to you, and that despite sharing the general music of your motion, they do not allow us to fully share your proposal. We share the background, I repeat, but to his motion we would place accents, accents that are important to us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Picó. Mr Tarno has the floor for the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Moscoso, let's vote no to your motion. It is a cluster of generalities, with which we could all agree, and which do not reflect the reality of our country. It has good things, the first is that they recognize that in Spain the economy grows. It has taken time to recognize it, you and other groups of the House have been constantly denying the evidence, which they preferred to be birds of mischief rather than to ascertain reality. What does the Socialist Group want with the thirteen points of this motion? Just to bring this legislature down, to end it; they have no other objective than that, which would mean going back to 2011, and to that the Spaniards cannot go back, Mr Moscoso. You with your proposals, in just four folios, want to amend forty laws - not one or two or three, but forty - in four folios; you have to value it. You have already said this: you are here for electoral propaganda, to start teaching your program, which the Spanish already know that they will not fulfill it; you are used to it, you already know them in your constant non-compliances. Do you know, Mr Moscoso, what is most important for sustainable growth? It's Perogrullo's, but it's very important: there's growth. Without growth nothing is sustained, and now there is growth, not with you. Between 2008 and the end of 2011, with a socialist government, GDP fell 5.3 points, 2.6 million jobs were destroyed, jobs corresponding to people with names and surnames, family, children, siblings, friends, not numbers, but 2.6 million people who lost their jobs, their future, and their life plan. In those same years 1,250,000 households had all their members unemployed, and thus there was no growth to sustain. What were you doing for those families? I say to you: to vote for what was said to them by a government that brought this country to ruin. The long-term unemployed, mostly older than fifty years and with family burdens, increased in that disastrous period of Spain by 2,250,000. Is that really the growth model you want for Spain? Back to implementing policies that have ruined this country? You talk about innovation when you know that this government has made a huge effort; you talk about innovative public works, when this government has launched them; you talk about second- chance law, when this government has introduced bills and royal decrees for that matter, and you are debating it in the House. You know that measures have been taken to prevent evictions, to improve the quality of life of our citizens. You also talk about some employment issues, that if we have to improve employability, that if we have to improve training... You know that the system is being worked on and modified, but perhaps you want to go back to training and put some former socialist councillor on the Andalusian Board as a minister, which those in training know very much, Mr Moscoso, very much. It's just that you guys dare some things... you talk about a public employment shock plan, and I guess that's gonna be moms cleaning schools. Indeed, everything you propose here is absolutely entrepreneurship, because we know you, Mr Moscoso. The Spanish economy is currently growing above 3.5% and more than 600,000 jobs will be created. In 2014 the number of households with all their unemployed members was reduced by 185,000, which means that there are people whose economy is growing and who can support their families. In 2014 the disposable income of Spanish families has increased since 2008. This is to grow sustainably, because it increases family income; six years down, which is what you left behind, and today the Spanish families have greater confidence in the future than four years ago, today the Spanish know that with the effort of everyone it comes out of the crisis. There has been nothing more unjust and less sustainable than what you did between 2008 and 2011 - there is the problem - and there will be nothing more unfair than the fact that you can put back into practice what made this country go bankrupt. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Tarno. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the free movement of works of art between the Canary Islands and the European Union and the Canary Islands. [[LORD KITCHEN]] [[File number 173/000219]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u212	Motion by the Joint Group, by Mr Quevedo, on the free movement of works of art between the Canary Islands and the Canary Islands and Europe and Canary Islands. Mr Quevedo has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. The object of this motion is logically the same one that supported the urgent inquiry that we defended last week in relation to the need to ensure the free movement of works of art between the Canary Islands, the peninsula, Europe and the Canary Islands. This initiative gave rise to a motion that we have made seeking to go to the rigour of the purely partisan debate, in a matter that, given the time that has elapsed, more than ten years of demands in this sector, and given the importance of the phenomenon requires an effort by all to seek the support of this House. I also have to say that the feeling is positive, and since we cannot say that every day, I have to welcome the receptivity we have found in the various groups in the House on this matter. On the other hand, it is to be expected that I would tell Minister Montoro the other day: there are few issues that have brought together and generated so much consensus, so much unanimity over the last few years as this, and there are also few issues that have progressed so little. We need an impetus and it was the object of our inquiry and the current motion. We try to make it very serious, without the slightest umbliguism and without the slightest spirit of complacency, that artistic production in the Canary Islands is subject to a situation of criminalization, aggravation and discrimination in relation to the rest of the artistic production of the whole State or of the European Union. It is clear here - it is collected and we accept it - that Ceuta and Melilla have for different reasons the same type of problem. We have tried to explain that when a canary artist intends to expose, exhibiting his work outside the canary territory is subject to a set of bureaucratic, fiscal, customs barriers, which make it almost impossible for him to really promote the artistic production of the sector as it is done in the Canary Islands. The other day we were talking about the issue of the DUA, the famous single administrative document, which is something like overcoming several times a marathon on the same day, is an extremely complicated matter that enormously burdens the artistic production of the Canarian creators. We also say that the reason for this curiously in this case is the Economic and Fiscal Regime of the Canary Islands, which implies a historical recognition of our particularities, of the differential canary fact, of the conditions of insularity and remoteness, but in this case it is not only positive, but it works negatively, because being outside the fiscal union and within the customs union in the end what happens is that the canary artists are treated as if they came from third countries, with the damage that we all recognize. We have to say that this affects a very important sector; in a direct and indirect way it affects some 18,000 people in the Canary Islands, 3% of our GDP, and therefore it is not precisely a baladian issue, moreover associated with a stage of cuts - which I am not going to describe - throughout the crisis that has entailed significant cuts in cultural matters not only in the Canary Islands but throughout the State. The background - we have already explained them the other day and it is in the text of the motion - are multiple. In November 2013 in the Parliament of the Canary Islands a non-unanimous proposal of law in this area. On December 17, 2013, the Senate Minister of Finance acknowledged the need to act on this issue. In March 2014 the Committee on Culture in Congress voted in favour of this matter, and in April 2014 the Committee on Culture in the Senate. On December 20, 2014, the BOE published the Royal Decree amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, which we believe has been a pity that it did not incorporate a solution to this issue. In addition, on 22 May in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria all the political parties that are in Congress with presence in the Canary Islands, such as Izquierda Unita-ICV, UPyD, the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Canary Islands Coalition, we signed a new document of support, at the request of the Association of Canarian Visual Artists, which once again brought us together very concerned about this issue. I have had a few contacts with the esteemed Member Paco Cabrera on this subject trying to find a way out. We in our Petitum have four strong, clear points, and in our opinion diaphanous ones, but as with what we are talking about here, we are going to accept the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party to this motion - the representative of the Group of the European People's Party - concerning the analysis of bureaucratic, administrative, fiscal, etc., of canary artistic production, ceutí and mellillen, and to consider the possibility of entering the bottom of the question, and it is that artistic production must be regarded as cultural and non-commercial goods. In other words, artistic production, a cultural good is not the same as a commercial good, such as a box of tomatoes, which has its recognition and with all our affection for the tomato, which as they know for the Canary Islands is quite important. So this is the essence of the issue. We trust that everyone will assume their responsibilities, the Parliament of the Canary Islands and the Government of the Canary Islands, and the Government of Spain will assume their responsibilities. I would also like to thank the various groups for their support. We believe that with this we are doing an exercise of responsibility, and we trust that it will serve to unlock a matter that is elementary, evident, and of pure justice in our opinion. We will therefore celebrate - if things evolve as we believe - that in this case we have been able to agree. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u214	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. As Mr Quevedo himself said very well, there is only one amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group to this motion, and Mr Cabrera has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to set out our group's position on this motion by the Mixed Group, Coalition Canaria-Nueva Canarias, on the free movement of works of art between the Canary Islands-peninsula-Europa-Canarias. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is very conscious and sensitive to what has been raised in this motion, because it knows and shares the concern about the bureaucratic problems of a customs and fiscal nature experienced by canary plastic artists, especially when they intend to transfer their works to the rest of the Spanish territory and to the European level. It is not a recent problem, nor is it an issue that also has an easy or simple solution. While as we shall see with this Government progress has been made with concrete measures, we must also bear in mind that in addition to a work of art they are also commercial or market goods, and that treatment is the same whatever the geographical origin of the artist. The different situation of Canarian artists and those of the rest of the State and of the Union is not due to a problem of the free movement of works of art, because this already exists without limits between the countries of the Union. It derives from the singular fact of our land, from the singular fact of the Canary Islands, since in our Economic and Fiscal System, as Mr Quevedo well advanced, the Act on value added tax, VAT, Law 37/1992, of 28 December, does not apply. This situation means that the circulation of works between the Canary Islands and the rest of the European Union must comply with a series of formal and material obligations, which are in fact the ones that cause these difficulties or disturbances to plastic artists living on our land in the Canary Islands. The Government and the Minister of Finance and Public Administration have reiterated on different occasions, both in Congress and in the Senate, the best willingness to find a solution and reduce these inconveniences that our artists find for their exhibition activity. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have a strong will to find solutions, and a lot of work has been done for over a decade now, but it has also - and must be fair - been done with this government when measures to remove customs barriers have been more concrete, within what is the competence of the government of the nation. As early as 2001, the Deputy Member of the Commune was dealing with this issue. The autonomous president himself then, Don Adam Martín, and the deputy dona Nardy Barrios, then committed a commission of inquiry. In 2004, the then Minister of Justice, Don Juan Fernando López Aguilar, also addressed the issue at a press conference. More recently, in 2013, motions and oral questions were raised in the Senate by the Socialist Group, as well as proposals for legislation in the same year as the People's Party in Congress. Also in the Parliament of the Canary Islands various initiatives were approved to address the same problems of these procedures; days in Tenerife in 2007; days recently, in 2015, in Gran Canaria. In short, all these initiatives addressed the mobility of works and their dual consideration of cultural and commercial property. At the same time, in the European Union, Mr Gabriel Mato has been making efforts, coordinating the efforts of the three administrations: the autonomous, the central and the European Union. In 2014, as has been well advanced here, both in Congress and in the Senate in different cultural commissions the government was urged to find solutions, and the government has studied and continues to study some alternatives - some have already been launched - that are not simple, since as we all know any decision must be within the limits set by European legislation in this area. It is good to reiterate these efforts, but we need to continue to make some progress and concrete proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, the limits of the solution are not in our own regulation, but in the obligations arising from European legislation, from the directives of the Union. Having said that, the Government, without prejudice to further progress, has not only proposed being in the best position, but is also making efforts to recognize and compensate for the costs arising from this situation. It is worth recalling, as Mr Quevedo also put forward - it has been good news for the Canary Islands - the great consensus that we have achieved to equip ourselves with a new economic and fiscal regime, our REF, the most advanced, ambitious and powerful that we have ever had for our community, and which, as the Canary Islands Government rightly acknowledges, represents all the interests of Canarian society. And I would like to recall the important involvement of the Government of the nation in the negotiations that took place in the European Union at a time of greatest difficulty, but we must continue to concretely develop economic areas and reduce bureaucratic costs such as those we are bringing to this debate today. On the other hand, there has been a significant simplification of the procedures being carried out, both for the entry of the said cultural goods into the peninsula and for their exit. By a resolution from the head of the department...
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u216	Mr Cabrera, you must go to an end, especially when you have been accepted by the amendment. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm finishing up. As the Tax Agency said, it has also introduced two major simplifications. One is of a general nature which does not require a single administrative document for the dispatch of consignments from one part of the customs territory - the DUA - but only for the introduction to the entry, and which affects consignments of less than EUR 3,000 or consignments without transfer of ownership. The second is a simplification which also affects electronic commerce and distance sales, and in this case the DAU introduces it by the consignor. Both simplifications came into force last January. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to make progress and believe that we are on the right track. I would like to thank Mr Quevedo for his willingness to reach an agreement. We have tabled an amendment that we have agreed on, and that is the line on which we must continue to move forward. It is therefore necessary that the three administrations - the Autonomous Government, the Government of Spain and the European Commission - continue to abound in order to overcome the difficulties of the movement of cultural goods and to limit or avoid obstacles to the cultural projection of the Canary Islands. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Cabrera. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Azpiazu has the floor for a position. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u219	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Quevedo, I recall that many years ago - perhaps ten years ago - a Canarian artist spoke to me precisely about the subject that is being brought to us today through this motion. He then did not know the matter, but it was not difficult to realize that there was an unnecessary, unfair and costly work to enable the Canarian artists to move their works to the peninsula or to Europe, so that they could be exposed and contemplated as those of other peninsulars or Europeans. It was discrimination that obviously had to be corrected, but it seems that it is still pending. To him who explained it to me and to me it seemed obvious to us, and therefore we thought it was a matter of little time, but unfortunately it has not been so. Since I am not in the Committee on Culture and I do not have specific information on this, I sincerely believed that this matter was already resolved. However, I note from the motion that the problem continues, and that little or nothing has been done about it. We'll see if this is the last motion and it's the right one. Little or nothing has been done to consider the artistic production of the Canary Islands as a cultural good, and not only as a commercial or market good, thus guaranteeing its free movement on equal terms with the artistic production of the peninsula. Declarations and non-legislative proposals have been made in the Canary Islands and in this House, even unanimously, and as other proposals are in the drawer of promises and unfulfilled commitments; in this drawer of non-legislative proposals, motions and initiatives adopted and forgotten. Unfortunately, this is the case with politics, and that is often the end of many of those initiatives in this House. Even the commitment of the Minister of Finance himself has remained in the water of drunkards. We all considered and considered that the situation needed to be corrected, but in fact only six months ago, when the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, which was the appropriate instrument for resolving this issue, was not adopted. The question is why. But regardless of what the answer is, it is necessary to make a firm commitment in this House so that it does not take longer and is not a matter for the next legislature, but that it is effectively resolved in the little that remains of this legislature. In addition, seeing how the People's Party legislates by royal decree-laws and omnibus laws, any law can be good for incorporating the reform demanded by the Canarian artists, the Canarian parties and the rest of the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u220	Thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu. Mr Lleonart has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Progressive Union and Democracy.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very brief. Canary Islands is one of the regions of Spain where the crisis has exacerbated its effects more intensely; they accumulate high unemployment figures, the reforms implemented by the Government in this legislature have not had any positive effect and unemployment rates remain above the Spanish average and have reached more than 32 %. Within this situation are the culture and its professionals, a situation that we call without repair of precarious and largely improveable. We already know that the world of culture has not won with the entry of the People's Party government; other sectors have not been stopped well either, but in particular culture has been particularly damaged. From the Parliamentary Group of the Progressive Union and Democracy we want to emphasize that culture is regarded as a right in our Magna Charter and is the foreground of education. People's access to culture must be one of the priorities of this Government. Culture is essential, although it seems that the various governments that have happened, whether from the People's Party or the Socialist Party, have understood that spending on culture is one more expense, one that they can play with to make their budget and electoral cabals. [[The Lord]] The true relevance of culture has not been taken into account by the various Spanish Governments, which is undoubtedly one of the most necessary and profitable investments in the future that a country can make to build a society with values. Our future as a society will depend to a large extent on how we treat the world of culture and education, since the preparation of our young people, emotional health, the growth of the Spaniards, will be affected by these decisions, although this is long-term talk and I know that politics always precedes the short-term. The countries of our environment, those where culture has been able to develop a powerful industrial fabric, a business model that contributes very significantly to their gross domestic products by creating great cultural and educational wealth and generating a large number of jobs, are increasingly moving away from the model that has been built by both the People's Party government and past Socialist Party governments, the model of brick and umbrella and sun lounger tourism. It is clear that the sector needs help, as we are going through a very complicated economic moment, but not everything has to do with economic support, but also with attention, with the connection between administrations, as well as between education and culture. As has already been said here about the initiative we are debating today, we must stress that this is not the first time that this problem has been brought to the House and, as we have already stated, our parliamentary group considers that it is not only a problem that affects the access of citizens to culture, but an undesirable situation that negatively affects equality between Spaniards. Already in the past since UPyD we have stated that we would support those measures that promote equality and culture and, therefore, we will support this initiative. We do not consider it fair that artists, in addition to the problems faced by the crisis and the harmful cultural measures promoted by the People's Party Government, have problems when they have to transport works or move decorated by Spain and/or Europe. To conclude and collect, there is no place in our legal and fiscal regime for such obvious discrimination, a different treatment of Spanish citizens according to their place of residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u222	Thank you very much, Mr Lleonart. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Plural Left, Mr Centella has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u223	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak briefly to welcome the initiative put forward and stress that it is indeed a necessary debate, because it is true that we are faced with a problem that has not been resolved for a long time. It is true that there seems to be such a consensus, but that consensus is also broadened by doing nothing. We therefore believe that this consensus, which will be reflected in the vote tomorrow, should serve as an impetus and compromise to prevent the motion being left in a mere literary exercise and this is the last time we discuss it. I therefore announce our vote in favour and welcome the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Centella. On behalf of the Catalan Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Unity, Mr Solsona has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. The Catalan Group of Convergence and Union, throughout this legislature, as well as in the previous ones, has resolutely sided with culture. In this legislature it has done so especially because, due to the economic crisis and, in our view, the current government's erratic policy, this sector has been particularly punished. Therefore, our position will be in support of this motion, as we have already supported the non-legislative proposal adopted by the Committee on Culture, which was in the same direction as the statement of reasons for this initiative itself. There is no doubt that the Canarian artists are in an unequal situation with regard to the Peninsular artists. It is important that account be taken of the remoteness of the Canary Islands and the cost involved at a time when many artistic companies are lacking in liquidity to meet the costs of the transfers. Hence, the need to maintain a partnership agreement between the Ministry of Culture and the Government of the Canary Islands to promote the exchange and cultural communication of the Canary Islands with the rest of the peninsula. The Government must respect the uniqueness of the Canary Islands and provide financial contributions to facilitate the exchange of the cultural communication of the Canary Islands with the rest of the Spanish State as a measure to encourage the local market for the culture of the Canary Islands, which, because of its special characteristics, requires access to external markets in order to survive and develop. We want to refer to the customs and tax barriers and the costs faced by the Canarian artists, which prevent them from moving their works on an equal footing with the rest of the Peninsular artists and which is the fundamental content of this initiative that we are debating here today. This is a good opportunity to call again for the proclamation of what would have to be a law of patronage, which has flown over the Ministry of Culture without materializing into anything concrete. It could have been a good tool to help this mobility of cultural works and artists, in this case the Canary Islands. That is why we will vote in favour. We welcome the fact that the agreement reached in this motion is coming forward, so that it is a first step or perhaps a final step towards resolving this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u226	Thank you very much, Mr Solsona. On the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sebastián Franquis has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. We will, logically, vote in favour of the motion tabled by the Canary Islands-New Canary Islands Coalition because we have already put forward a non-law proposal in the Committee on Culture a year and a half ago in almost the same line as this motion and it was approved by the unanimity of the House. It was done later in the Senate. The Minister has responded several times to questions from the Socialist Group by offering his goodwill to reach a solution on this matter. We are concerned about what can be thought of, in this case, by the Canarian artists. What has been said here has been heard four times in the last three years. It is approved by the Senate, the House, the Congress, the Parliament, the Government, and it is not resolved, it is not fixed. What has to happen for the problem to be fixed? If approved by the Government and the Chambers, what has to happen for this to be approved? How is the will of the government or the People's Party measured here, for the times it comes to each House saying that they agree and will do so? Is it measured this way? No, no. I have been talking to the leaders of this association these days and I want to express here in this House, in this House, all the support and encouragement that must be given to them because they have been fighting for the last ten years. And you know what's moving me? They're tired, they don't believe us. They do not believe in the majority will of the whole House, which has approved this problem four times. They don't believe us. You know why? Because a year ago, the Socialists presented a GNP in this House just as the economic and fiscal regime was being discussed, debated and negotiated with the European Union. It was the right time; it was the great occasion, because we were looking for a cultural space in that REF to solve this problem, and they didn't; they looked elsewhere and they didn't. That's the only solution! Let's not be fooled! That's enough good words! It is good enough to tell people our goodwill, because they do not believe us, and we do not want to collaborate in that ceremony of confusion. No, no, no, we are going to support the motion, no doubt, because it would cost us more to vote against and explain it than to vote in favour, but we do not believe its will or predisposition. The Finance Minister has said this four times in this House, and what result has there been? No results, no results. Man, things have their limit and patience! You have done quite the opposite to cultural policy in the Canary Islands. Since you have ruled, from 2011 until today, 109 companies related to cultural activity have disappeared in the Canary Islands; 1,900 fewer jobs in culture in the Canary Islands in the last three and a half years, a product of your policy. And since there was this problem of fiscal and bureaucratic obstacles, the previous socialist government established, in the State General Budgets, an amount to help the movement of the Canarian artists to the Peninsula, and you took it, cut it, made it disappear. This motion which comes today, among other things, has this proposal; that proposal which you did not want to vote on. If you agree with that, the only way to alleviate the difficulties of remoteness that canary artists have is to support them, as it was in those budgets. For this reason, this economic item was included in the budgets of a few years ago to help the movement of the Canarian artists. And you vote against it again. Look, we don't believe it. But the problem is that we don't just don't believe it anymore; it's that no one believes it. Why, if so much progress has been made, did the association, just a month ago, require all political forces to include this political commitment in their electoral programmes? Why? If everything were fixed, no one would have required us to include this electoral commitment in the political offers two months ago. You have signed, you have adopted this resolution here in the Parliament of the Canary Islands, but the reality is that absolutely nothing has been achieved. If the advance is that they have created a unique window, if that is the advance after the last ten years, explain it to the Canarian artists, that many cannot compete, many do not have - as they have other artists on the Peninsula - the possibility of being able to expose their works on the Peninsula because they are expensive the transport that you have removed from the budgets; because they cannot compete neither with customs nor tax barriers and that you have promised that you would negotiate in the new REF, and they did not. Therefore, I insist, we will approve this motion, but we will explain to people the truth; and you today, once again, are not credible. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Franquis. Mr Quevedo, you have the floor to rule on whether or not to accept the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u229	Yes, Mr President, we will accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2015-06-17-CD150617.u230	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. The meeting was suspended. It was one and forty minutes in the afternoon.
