ParlaMint-DK_20151106100012	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others.: Question No. F 6 (What can the Minister say about the outcome of the vote on 3 December, and what does the government intend to do in the light of this? ) The title of the notified case will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151106100034	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mette Reissmann from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106100100	Bill L 37 which we are discussing today contains a number of initiatives. The key point is that we are implementing the UCITS V Directive and, at the same time, we are allowing the FSA to create a price portal for mortgage loans. Overall, it creates greater safety and greater transparency for consumers. We are, of course, on the other side of a global financial crisis, a crisis that has created economic chaos and that has forced people from house to house, and it is very clear from this that it is also necessary that a sustainable framework for the financial sector should be created so that it does not happen again. If we are to avoid something as violent as the recent financial crisis coming back, we must change the rules of the game for the financial sector. And if it is to make a difference, we must also do so in cooperation with the rest of the European countries. After all, the European Union is proving its worth with laws such as this, because the rules we are adopting here today will also apply in the rest of Europe. We must be true that the financial sector, like so many other sectors, is cross-border in its behaviour, and that is why the legislation must be. With the UCITS V Directive, the rules for investment funds become the same across EU countries. This is particularly true for custodians who keep the securities and cash of investment funds, and it creates better competition, and ultimately it benefits consumers. It is also a question of ensuring that, as we say in Nudan, there is compliance, that is, there is properness in the sector. So in addition to that, security and compliance are actually two passwords that the Social Democrats love very much. At the same time, greater security will also be created for investors when the custody companies are better regulated. The bill also makes it possible for supervision to create a price portal comparing prices for mortgage loans. As it is now, it can be very incalculable for the consumer to find out which products are best suited to the needs of the present and the risk-taking nature of the situation. The price portal will become part of the 2014 refinancing risk management agreement led by the Social Democrats when we sat in government. And better information about prices improves competition, and again it also strengthens the consumer's position. That is why, of course, we are pleased that it is now also becoming legislation. There has been concern in some places about whether it will push others out of the market, because the legal basis that supervision is now given to create price portals will be too wide. Of course, this is not intended to happen, in other words to push other players out of the market. The aim is to increase transparency, promote competition and, at the very least, benefit consumers when they are out shopping home loans. That is why we are looking forward to discussing this proposal further in committee. There is no doubt that this is a technically complicated and difficult proposal, and that is why the discussion is something that we are looking forward to. The Socialists can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106100404	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Dorthe Ullemose, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106100416	As the Danish People's Party's business rapporteur, Hans Kristian Skibby, unfortunately cannot be present here at the first reading of L 37, I shall address the following speech on behalf of him: the draft law here contains a number of different elements. According to the Minister for Economic Affairs, the draft law aims to promote transparency and price competition in the housing market by allowing the FSA to set up a price portal for loan offers and in this context to obtain information and publish prices for financial mortgage products. In the Danish People's Party, we are absolutely in favour of transparency about prices for mortgage offers, but what we are not entirely convinced about is whether such a price portal will be able to provide a useful overview for each property buyer. There are many different types of loans and, for example, the difference between CITA loans for traditional flex loans and the latest mortgage loans via a number of banks is helping to complicate the information value of a future price portal. In the Danish People's Party we will in the committee work ask about the government's expectations of such a price portal. The draft law provides for increased investor protection with additional requirements for investment funds and their business. Similarly, it is proposed to maintain the Danish liquidity requirement for money and mortgage institutions until the end of 2016, and the possibility for money and mortgage institutions to apply for exemption from the national liquidity coverage requirement in order to comply with the LCR requirement instead. The draft law also contains a number of minor amendments, including changes of a purely technical nature. The Danish People's Party does not support pr. automatic legal adjustments due to new EU directives, but will assess together, on the basis of what is best for Denmark and Danish interests, and we will therefore wait for the second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106100638	Thank you to Mrs Dorthe Ullemose. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106100653	It is not, of course, a small, easy bill that we are now dealing with. It is quite extensive from the point of view of the Minister for Business and Growth, but although something is comprehensive and complicated, it may actually be quite sensible. Basically, we need to have confidence in our financial sector, that there is a framework that ensures stability and robustness, so that some of the mistakes and problems we saw during the financial crisis do not recur. Of course, a number of initiatives have been taken both globally and at European level to ensure that regulation is better and more robust, but at the same time there is also the possibility of strengthening competition, so that we as consumers have more opportunities. The draft law basically implements the so-called UCITS V Directive. It is heavy, long and complicated, but as I said, the purpose is quite reasonable. I won't go through all the elements. Fortunately, time does not allow that. There are a number of safeguards vis-à-vis investors and to us as private individuals if we invest in investment funds, and this aims to increase transparency and market security and thus competition. This also means that if a Danish company is subject to UCITS V rules, it can be delegated as an investor to others. Yes, it is now being made clear what rules should apply, so that, as an investor, you are in the same position, whether it is the investment fund itself that is responsible for the task, or it is delegated to some others. Once again, it is a proposal that must help to strengthen competition. Last year, the then government entered into an agreement with the Left, Conservative and SF on refinancing risk in the context of interest rate adjustment loans, and in order to increase market transparency, it was agreed that a price portal for real estate loans would be established. Granted, this is perhaps not the most natural public task in my view, but when one finds that there is no such portal today and that it is difficult for consumers to compare different products, it may be an approach that helps to strengthen transparency, competition and thus the ability of consumers to make informed choices, to introduce such a system. Therefore, the draft law provides a legal basis for the establishment of such a price portal by the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority, because it is not possible for them to do so with the legislation in force. There are also provisions on the EU's liquidity requirements, which are in the process of being introduced, and some transitional provisions in relation to whether Danish institutions choose to apply the new EU rules or stay on the Danish ones. It makes really good sense. As I said, this is a rather large technical legislative proposal, but there are certainly sensible elements that ensure that the resilience of the financial markets is strengthened and that, at the same time, we also strengthen the conditions of competition and transparency in the market. That makes very good sense, and that is why we support the motion in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106101003	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106101015	What is important to the ordinary citizen in this proposal is the better opportunity to compare what is called financial products, i.e. various loan offers and other things, i.e. products offered by credit associations, banks and others, and that is a clear step forward which Enhedslisten warmly supports. It is a jungle for consumers, and if this price portal can contribute to greater transparency, it is a clear step forward. One can then say that this simple matter is tied into a very technical legislative proposal of over 400 pages, it is 428 pages, to be exact, and one can ask whether everyone in this Chamber has read, let alone understood, all 428 pages of heavy EU law. I actually understand that the banks, who are otherwise not Enhedslisten's best friends, have never supported our election campaign... they are complaining a little over these thousands of pages of EU law that they have to understand. It should be simpler and, of course, it is impossible for the people to keep track of what is going on. The content of the other measures is, of course, a matter of regulation of the financial sector, and this is an important issue. The former rapporteur, the Socialist Group, said that the financial sector is cross-border, and that is true, not just in the geographical sense. After all, we have seen a financial sector which has been deeply irresponsible and has borne a heavy share of responsibility for the crisis in which the world has been plunged into, with the consequences it has had for ordinary people. So regulation is needed and requirements are needed. The problem is, of course, that the measures taken are far too few and not far-reaching enough, but any step in the right direction is, of course, something we can support on the part of the Enhedslisten. Much of this is, after all, a matter of transposing EU directives into Danish legislation. There we have the basic position in the Enhedslisten that the fact that the European Union has adopted something does not necessarily mean that the same thing is wise, so we are dealing with the proposals one by one, and to the extent that it is drawing in the right direction from the point of view of the interests of ordinary people in Denmark and in Europe, we support it. Otherwise, we will reject it. In this case, with the knowledge we have, before the committee reading has started, we see this proposal as something that is moving in the right direction, and therefore Enhedslisten, as it is now, can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106101311	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106101331	As several of the other rapporteurs have mentioned, this is, it has to be said, another very, very comprehensive legislative proposal in the financial field. We have had problems in the past with the scope of these legislative proposals and the enormous complexity of this type of legislation. In fact, we believe that it is a democratic problem, because I think it is very, very difficult for us, who have to deal with these legislative proposals, to understand the consequences of them. This bill implements this UCITS directive, which deals with liquidity coverage requirements for money and mortgage institutions. At the same time, it is also proposed in the bill that the FSA should be able to create this price portal. The bill is part of the implementation of a 2014 agreement that LA was not part of. We cannot therefore support this bill either. We don't believe this price portal is going to work, and we don't quite buy the argument that because such a price portal isn't there today, the public has to create such a price portal. There may be many things that one might wish were present today on the market, and one might wonder why they are not there, but when they are not there, it is because there is no demand for them. Had there been a demand for such a price portal, it existed today. In addition, this bill is also being taken forward by allowing the FSA to set up other types of price portals, or at least that the price portal will be more comprehensive and will thus go into areas where there are already private suppliers of such services, and we cannot agree to that. In addition, the FSA will once again have increased powers. This time it is a matter of allowing the FSA to carry out inspections at what is called non-financial counterparties. The Council of Lawyers in its hearing is very sceptical about this. They note that the FSA's on-the-spot inspections must be carried out on the basis of an announcement and a risk-based approach. Nevertheless, the Lawyers' Council considers that these provisions, which are being laid down here, constitute an exception to the constitution's starting point on the inviolability of the dwelling, and therefore consider that it is critical from the point of view of legal certainty that these powers are now granted to the FSA. I know there are other bourgeois parties, among others. The Conservative People's Party, which has been very critical of giving the authorities additional powers to compromise with Article 72 of the Constitution, is of course also hoping that our good friends from the Conservative People's Party will be critical of this element of the bill. But we cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106101720	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106101736	This is quite a legislative proposal put forward by the Minister. The majority of the proposal concerns the implementation of the EU directive on collective investment in transferable securities, so that we have uniform rules in all EU countries and we can support that as a starting point. In addition, the draft law is also the implementation of a political agreement from 2014 where, for natural reasons, the alternative could not be included. The agreement states, inter alia, that the Government will take the initiative to increase transparency on the costs of mortgage mortgage loans granted by mortgage credit institutions and by financial institutions' priority loans with a view to strengthening competition and making it easier for consumers to find the most advantageous housing loan. In the alternative, we are working on six values, and one of them is transparency. This, of course, means that we are positive about a proposal which aims to promote that very value. A price portal such as the one proposed by the draft law, where the FSA is given the opportunity to publish prices for loan offers on residential loans, will provide greater transparency for consumers and give them better conditions for finding the best and cheapest loans. A price portal will increase price competition in the housing market for the benefit of consumers, who can then look forward to better and cheaper home loans. Of course, we want to help improve the conditions for consumers when they embark on the housing market, but I am aware, as has already been said, that the draft law provides that the FSA will not only be empowered to set up a price portal in the area of housing, but generally for financial products, and thus have the power to set up price portals in other areas. It is important for us that with this bill we do not move into areas where the task is already being done well by companies that provide the same good conditions for consumers as those proposed by the bill on the housing market. It may be a small thing in this very, very big bill, but it's a very big thing for some private companies that can feel pressured on their business model if we create uncertainty about which areas the FSA has the opportunity to create these price portals within. This is something I want to take on board in the work of the committee, but we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102000	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102008	It's like when you get on a little down the line of speeches, it's been reviewed quite a lot of times what the bill contains, so I'll spare you a repeat of that. But I would say that what we are looking at in this very large complex is to try to strike the right balance between having a financial sector that has a stable and clear framework, so that we do not come back into a situation where speculation can go crazy and where nobody, like anyone, is watching how the institutions behave and, on the other hand, not to have too heavy, difficult demands that make it expensive for citizens, which means that it will actually be more expensive to buy these products. We also think it is important that competition in this area works. And that is why we liked the idea that we too, in our time in government, helped to present as an idea to create a price portal to ensure transparency and to ensure that consumers have better opportunities to find out what individual products cost and who can offer them the best offer. So all in all, the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102111	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102125	The SF also supports the proposal. The possibility for the FSA to open a new lending portal is very positive in relation to the transparency of the system. And we also welcome the removal of barriers to the participation of Danish industry in the European market. In the end, we also believe that the law will mean greater equality in the mortgage credit system, as the information will be much more accessible. Then I really do not want to say much more, because my colleagues have done so to a large extent. But SF supports this bill. We think this is a good and important proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102200	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102208	The Conservative People's Party is to the maximum extent possible transparency and competition for the benefit of consumers, for the benefit of businesses. The proposal here, which, after all, implements the UCITS Directive, helps to ensure more competition and more transparency. So, instead of going into details of that, I can see that it is going to be moving in the right direction at least, and that is why we are positive about it. There is one element which I would like to discuss with the Minister and which we may be able to deal with now or which we can address during the committee procedure. This is when the public sector now, for example. through the FSA, can go in and look at and make such price portals, so we must at least ensure that they do not go out and compete with existing portals, so that they do not so take the bread out of the mouth of companies operating in that market. There are different companies that have objective portals, and it is important that the state does not go through the FSA and make similar products. But we need to discuss this. We must get it fenced in and secure some protection rules so that the public does not go in and do tasks that private people do. However, the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102331	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102339	Thank you for your comments on the bill. As several rapporteurs have mentioned, this is a legislative proposal which contains a wide range of different amendments to financial legislation. The proposal is primarily about the implementation of EU rules, but among other things. also on the establishment of a price portal for residential loans. The draft law aims to promote transparency and price competition in the housing market by allowing the FSA to collect and publish prices for financial products. The initiative follows on from the broad policy agreement of 2014 on the management of refinancing risk. It was the case that the then government, the Social Democracy and the Radical Left, together with the Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, reached an agreement on 6 February 2014. That is why I would like to say today that the implementation of the political agreement will be invited to a meeting here in the coming weeks, during which we will also be discussing the whole question of the establishment of a price portal. And I would like to say here today from Parliament's platform that, of course, the government has no ambition to create a price portal or to create several price portals to outperform private players. But, of course, we stand by the agreement that we helped to make. In addition, I can say that the legislative proposal aims to ensure increased investor protection in UCITS by introducing new requirements for investment funds and their organisation. This applies, among other things, to: obligation to always act in the interest of the association/investor, control cash flows and provide compensation if assets are lost. In addition, the proposal ensures that the gradual phasing-in of the new EU liquidity coverage requirements does not lead to a reduction in the liquidity level of certain Danish financial and mortgage institutions, while maintaining the existing Danish rules until the end of 2016. This phase-in follows up on banking package VI. The draft law also introduces EU-compliant rules on individual solvency supplements for credit institutions. This ensures uniform quality requirements and the capital used to meet an individual solvency supplement. Let me say that I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and take note of the comments that have been made at first reading here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102604	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102621	The debate is open. This is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102639	On 8 June 2015, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on interchange fees for payment card payments entered into force and the purpose of the draft law today is to ensure that Denmark complies with the obligations under the Regulation. Every time a payment card is paid at home, a small fee goes from the store's bank to the card issuer's bank, and that is the fee between banks, the so-called interbank fee that this case is about. The fee has been introduced to balance the benefits and costs of electronic payments. The aim is for all parties to pay part of the costs of operating the payment system. So far, so good. This bill empowers the Minister of Industry and Growth to lay down detailed rules for the amount of the interbank fee. This will allow the Minister of Business and Growth to apply, until 9 December 2020, a weighted average interchange fee of up to 0,2%. of the average annual transaction value of debit card transactions within each payment card scheme. It is proposed that the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency and the Consumer Ombudsman should supervise and that an infringement of the regulation should be punishable by a fine. As far as the Dankort is concerned, when we had government responsibilities, former Minister for Business and Growth Henrik Sass Larsen paid particular attention to what the regulation would have to do with the Dankort and was also in dialogue with the Commission on this. The proposal will make it difficult for the Dankort to compete with international payment cards, and that will therefore mean that the Dankort will be too expensive and too difficult to work with. The former Minister for Business and Growth also initially worked for a complete exception to national debit card systems. It was a Danish matter! It was Denmark rather alone to think was a good idea, and therefore the focus was also shifted to getting increased flexibility for the Member States. We therefore have the expectation, of course, that the Minister will make use of the flexibility of the regulation until 2020, so that the Dankort is taken into account and so that the Dankort also until 2020 does not have to follow the rules on interchange fees. Whether this is the case, we look forward to getting the drill into the committee's work. And, of course, if it looks reasonable, the Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102911	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Dorthe Ullemose, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106102921	Again, on behalf of business rapporteur Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party, I shall make the following speech here at the first reading of L 38: The overall purpose of the bill is, as presented by the Minister for Business and Growth, to implement the rules resulting from the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. In the Danish People's Party we have the clear political position that you always per. coalance should be EU-implemented, but always assess whether the existing legislative changes are beneficial to Danish interests and whether they are overimplementation. In the case in question, the Danish People's Party is not sure that it is the right approach for the Minister, as proposed in the draft law, to be empowered to lay down detailed rules for the amount of interchange fees. In our view, such a transfer of authority to the minister in office at any time must be cautious. In the written submission, the Minister also points out that the draft law will provide maximum flexibility in relation to the fee structure for both debit cards and credit cards. However, we note that the draft law ensures that the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency will have primary responsibility for the supervision of the regulation on Article 3.11, and that the Consumer Ombudsman will supervise parts of Article 12. Against this background, we in the Danish People's Party will not today give our commitment to supporting the amendment of the law, but will consider our position during the committee's work on the legislative proposal at second and third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106103116	Thank you to the rapporteur. Perhaps I should just say that, although one reads on behalf of another, one is the rapporteur for one's party. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106103133	We remain in the very technical but nevertheless important proposals. L 38 is a consequence of an EU regulation, which has previously been well explained here from the platform. Although the regulation has immediate effect in Denmark, there is a need to make supplementary Danish legislation, and this concerns, among other things, Denmark. on, as has been said, the Minister for Business and Growth is authorised to determine the rules for the so-called interchange fees for credit card transactions. There's a difference between debit cards or credit cards. This reflects the difference in costs and also ensures that the Competition and Consumer Authority is given the primary responsibility for supervising the regulation, as well as making it clear that infringements of the regulation can be penalised by fines. Let me just make one comment on what the Socialist rapporteur said. There is no doubt that it was a Danish wish to go somewhere else than where the regulation landed, but a broad mandate has been given earlier under the previous government in the Parliament's European Committee, of which the then government and the Left were part. That's the 0.2% we landed on. So that's why it's been delivered, taking into account the art of the possible. That is why, of course, we in the Left believe that the political agreements and wishes that have been made are being met and that the draft law ensures that Danish rules will escape with the regulation and that there will be the enforcement provisions that are needed. So, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106103321	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106103335	Like the legislative proposal before us, this is also the result of an EU directive and agreement. Some of this, as the previous rapporteur said, has immediate effect, but there are also parts of what we have to decide here. As a starting point, control and supervision of the charges applicable to debit card and credit card transactions are very good. This is one of the places where it can be really difficult for consumers to know what is going on and where the banks have also taken some liberties. As the Socialist rapporteur has pointed out from up here, there are apparently some problems with the map as a consequence of what has been adopted in the European Union. This is something that makes us at least in the Enhedsliste concerned about the consequences of it, and it is not sufficiently reassuring, even if an agreement is reached until 2020, because there are quite a few years to do so. So we will try to examine this in committee and get more clarity as to what the consequences are for our credit cards. Basically, we feel that this is one of the areas in which we can discuss why the European Union should enter and regulate our fees with the consequences it may have for the payment system that we have. This is probably one of the areas in which we believe it would be sensible to leave a greater decision-making power to each country. And the fact that the Danish wishes have not been sufficiently met shows that here is one of the areas in which the EU can unfortunately go in and take decisions that have consequences that are not what we in the Danish Parliament wanted. So we are looking with some concern at this proposal, but will look openly at it up to committee reading and then look at what lies in the possibilities of resolving the problems I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106103605	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106103611	This is not really a particularly controversial proposal, as it affects already adopted EU rules. Nevertheless, we should sometimes stop and ask ourselves whether such a bill is basically sensible. We in the Liberal Alliance do not believe that it is, because what we are talking about here is quite simple price regulation of a product in the private market. Price regulation is not good for consumers. It distorts the market, it hinders innovation, it hinders progress, new products which, of course, can be difficult for politicians to imagine what could be, because they do not know what could happen in the future. Therefore, politicians should also refrain from such things as price regulation. This bill is an expression of price regulation. In this case, a minister can sit and decide what the fees should be. However, I would like to say that, if this is to be the case, the solution that has been found here is pragmatic and sensible. Since we are a member of the European Union, it has to be this way. Then this legislation must be implemented, but we reserve the right to say no to a legislative proposal which is basically not in the interests of consumers, because it is not in the interests of consumers to have price regulation of products whose prices are fixed on the private market, because it is not in the consumer's interest to take such measures in the long run. That is why we cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106103804	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106103818	Then we are dealing with another EU implementation. I shall be very brief. The overall objective is, of course, to remove obstacles, so that we have a well-functioning European market for electronic payments and ensure that Denmark complies with the obligations of the regulation, including to set the amount of interchange fees. With this proposal, it is proposed to authorise the Minister to lay down rules on the amount of this interbank fee for domestic transactions in Denmark. To give that kind of carte blanche to the minister really requires that the rest of us be awake and keep an eye on what happens in the ministry, so that development does not go the wrong way, because it is important for the alternative, as for many others, that this bill does not mean that the fees will increase. Fortunately, however, that is not what the Minister is proposing. But as a starting point, we are positive about the bill, although we would like to look at parts of it during the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106103927	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106103934	Thank you very much. After all, what we're doing today has been reviewed. I think it is important to point out that throughout this whole process we have actually been basically quite agreed to try to keep prices on the Dankort down. We have fought a joint Danish battle in the European Union and have come as far as we could, and now we have to put things right in an area where I would say that I can hardly imagine the Minister for Business and Growth who thinks it is really cool to knock up the prices on the Dankort. It is clear that you always have to think about giving this kind of authority, and I think it is fine that we make sure nothing happens in that way. But, of course, when we have fought the battles in the European Union and with all the benefits we have here, we must be part of an international system in this area and also correct when there are things that do not comply with the rest of the European rules. So the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106104026	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106104044	The SF also supports the proposal. However, we have some questions we would like to discuss with the Minister and also in committee. We are concerned that the bill opens up a price increase on the use of Dankort in Denmark. It is a concern we would like the Minister to address and something we would like to ask questions about during the committee's examination of the draft law. We believe, moreover, and it is positive that the law will open up the way for smaller players on the Danish and European payment markets. That will be positive. So all in all, with the small page note that we need clarification on the Dankort, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106104129	Thank you. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106104136	We think it is a positive proposal. That is not very controversial either. It is simply a matter of making the necessary adjustments to the law after the EU regulation on interchange fees was adopted earlier this year. It is also a cementation that the Dankort is one of the cheapest payment methods in the world. There is also a consensus here in the Danish Parliament that we should be happy that we have a Dankort, which is already regulated in Danish legislation. This is necessary in order not to change the underlying assumptions underlying the Dankort agreement on which we have broadly supported and which will ensure the development of the Dankort until 2020. The fee ceilings introduced at EU level do not affect the credit card, since it is already one of the world's most secure and efficient debit cards. So we are positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106104235	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business and Growth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106104244	Thank you for your comments on the bill. The draft law, as several have already said, is a consequence of the adoption of the Regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions, which entered into force on 8 June 2015. The purpose of the draft law is, among other things, to: ensuring that the Regulation ceiling on interchange fees is as much adapted as possible to the fee structure of the Danish payment card market. In addition, the aim of the draft law is more generally to ensure that Denmark meets its obligations under the regulation, for example. in relation to supervision and sanctions. The draft law empowers the Minister of Industry and Growth to lay down detailed rules for the amount of the interbank fee that providers may offer or require in connection with the implementation of a domestic consumer-related debit card transaction. With this authorisation, I intend to allow providers to apply a so-called weighted average interbank fee of up to 0,2%. instead of a fixed ceiling for each fee. This is the solution that creates maximum flexibility in relation to the fee structure in the Danish payment card market. In conclusion, I would also like to mention briefly that, given the imminent referendum on 3 December, since Parliament has not met in the two weeks before, we are obliged to table amendments to the second reading of the draft law. This amendment will state that the draft law can be confirmed immediately after its adoption. In this way, it will be ensured that the draft law will enter into force before 9 December, when the regulation on interchange fees applies in Denmark. Let me conclude by making a few comments on what Mrs Ida Auken quite rightly said, namely that this is a matter which has been widely supported and which has extended over a long period of time. This is, in fact, a case that has been running back from 2013 when the Commission presented its proposal. After that, the then Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior was given a mandate in the European Committee on 6 November 2014 where one of the mandates is, and I read out that the Member States will have the necessary flexibility to adapt the limits on interchange fees to national payment card systems, as is the case now in the current compromise text. That is exactly what we must also ensure in the future. I would therefore like to say that I think it would be a good idea for me, as a minister, to also offer a technical review of this legislative proposal, which I know there are committee members who have very wisely asked for. And since no one has raised this in this debate, I would like to say, because I am a kind man, that I think it might be a good idea to discuss it here, and I would like to invite it next week, precisely in order to take some of the more detailed questions in relation to the different types of cards and their importance, if I may say so, in relation to the legislative proposal that has been tabled. So, in order not to have a long technical discussion, I would like to offer a technical review in which, of course, I myself will be present.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106104546	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151106104601	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 10 November 2015, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
