ParlaMint-DK_20151113100004	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100014	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100052	The debate is open. First I give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100116	Thank you. The motion for a resolution seeks to re-establish the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission by the government. Following the proposal, the Commission will resume its work on the same basis as it was originally set up so that it can complete the work begun to investigate and explain the background for Denmark's participation in the Iraq War and the actions of the Danish authorities in relation to the detention of persons in Iraq and Afghanistan. Several of my ministerial colleagues and I have previously answered a number of parliamentary questions about the government's decision to abolish the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission. As I have said before, the government considers that the facts which the Commission should investigate are sufficiently clarified. There have, of course, always been different political views on Denmark's participation in the war, but the political discussion should not be made legally. It is a political decision to set up a commission of inquiry, it was also disputed, and it is a political decision to appoint a commission of inquiry. At the same time, the government considers that, as far as possible, common sense should be exercised when spending taxpayers' money. In relation to the history and Denmark's participation in international wars, the government finds that Danes' money is better spent on taking care of some of the people who have come home with scars on their body and soul than on a long-standing commission work. That is why the government has decided to abolish the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission and instead wants to use the funds allocated to strengthen efforts for Danish veterans. In addition, it should be borne in mind that a number of the questions raised prior to the setting up of the Commission are already addressed in advance by the defence. When defence is preparing directives for participation in international missions today, the experience of the last 10-15 years will be drawn in detail. The Minister of Defence has also stated that in 2012 the Ministry of Defence launched a comprehensive work on preparing a Danish military manual. The military manual shall contribute to further strengthening defence training and application of international humanitarian law and the laws of war. This manual is expected to be completed during 2016. So, as I have said today and in the past, the government considers that the facts which the Commission should examine are sufficiently clarified. Instead, the government has chosen to use taxpayers' money to strengthen efforts for Danish veterans. We need to take better care of those who come home with scars on their bodies and souls. In addition, previous experiences are being drawn today in connection with international missions. In addition, extensive and important work was started in 2012. The result will be presented next year with a military manual. Much is therefore being done on an ongoing basis to improve efforts. Against this background, there is no need for long-standing Commission work, and the government cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100415	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments. The first one's for sir. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100421	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There were several things that had to be investigated in this commission, among others. the treatment of prisoners. This is a subject which I know has been of concern to the Left in the past. In fact, it was the case that the Left launched an investigation into it in 2010 under Secretary of Defense Gitte Lillelund Bech. This investigation then became part of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission and was thus part of that work. Now we are in a situation where there is no investigation into the ill-treatment of prisoners because the government is closing the commission. Is it the case that the Left has changed its position in this matter and does not consider it appropriate to have something else investigated that was otherwise initiated in 2010?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100513	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen came to call the Minister of Justice Minister for Defence (Nikolaj Villumsen Sorry), but if we are not just to say the Minister for Defence, then you can at least be sure to hit right. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100525	Thank you for that, and maybe that's why, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen addresses the actual material content of the question to the wrong one, because what I have to answer today is of course the question of why I believe the government has dropped the commission in question. The material content of Danish participation in war in Iraq and Afghanistan, including the issue of the detention of persons during this war effort, is rightly the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. That makes me say that this discussion is really about something quite different. What you wanted when you set up the commission in question with great precision was to see Anders Fogh Rasmussen and Per Stig Møller and Søren Gade and other bourgeois politicians running up and down a stairway while interrogations were to take place and conduct politics on something. That's what they wanted. It wasn't even about the Iraq War. It was about politics. That is what needs to be maintained in this context and, of course, the government is not helping to do so. Setting up committees of inquiry is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100634	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100636	Of course, I'm sorry I didn't call the Minister of Justice the Minister of Justice. I will, of course, do so in the future. However, there is no doubt that the Minister for Justice is here because the Minister for Justice is, of course, the target of the government's decision in this matter. Therefore, I would like to hear an answer from the Minister for Justice as to why it is that, unlike the former VK government, the government does not want an investigation into the treatment of prisoners and among other things. This is a study of whether Danish soldiers witnessed the torture of Iraqi prisoners, which the former government of the VK launched an investigation into, and which we are now not getting clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100715	As I have said before: concrete questions about the detention of persons in war effort are proper under the authority of the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100724	The next brief remark is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100728	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice points out that the basis should be fully elucidated. I find it very difficult to see how this is related to the fact that, immediately after the closure of the Iraq Commission, completely new information was provided on the use of, among other things. The mercenaries in Blackwater, brand new information on how databases of prisoners had disappeared, and brand new information on how Anders Fogh Rasmussen has previously promised the Pentagon that Denmark would back up in Iraq. I think there is much to point out that things have certainly not been fully clarified at the time when the commission was laid down, and I am very, very afraid they are still not today either. So how is the Minister going to explain that this long series of things has come out after the Minister has said that everything was fully clarified?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100824	After all, Mrs Flyvholm represents a party that is often and often worried that everything has not always come out fully in all possible contexts. In this respect, I can say that the expression which I use with great care and care, moreover, is that it has been sufficiently elucidated. This is in fact very closely linked to what I started by saying, namely that the Commission of Inquiry was itself politicised, as the President of the Court of Justice also noted when it was set up. And we just have to say that it was policed. We did not seek a broader mandate, we did not anchor it in the Folketing, and we did not ask ourselves whether we were asking ourselves, for example, whether we were going to be able to do something about it. could have looked at all the Danish war effort and whether one could have gone all the way back to the conflict in the Balkans and actually had a fair, proper investigation of these conditions. But that's not what they did, and that's why they politicized it. Then, of course, you can say that you want every detail in it all illuminated. That is not what matters to us. We believe that the matter has been sufficiently clarified. The matter was brought before the Folketing, and a majority of the Folketing took a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100932	Mrs Eva Flyvholm, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113100933	After all, I believe that it is also a democratic issue to ensure that the truth comes out. After all, we still have some ambiguity as to whether or not the Folketing, for example. have been misled in the context of the Iraq war, and I would like to have that investigated in more detail. Does it really not concern the Minister for Justice that it is not possible to talk to the relevant people here, that it will not be possible to question Anders Fogh Rasmussen under the responsibility of a witness to hear what was actually going on then? Is that not in the interests of democracy? I would also like to ask: will the Minister of Justice really put his head on the block so that there will be no more problems in relation to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101019	The truth came for one day: what it was all about was interrogating former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen under witness responsibility for a political decision made by a legitimate majority in the Danish Parliament in full openness to the Danish population. Mrs Flyvholm said so herself, but then added that I had to put my head on the block. That is also what the intention is. That is what it is all about: it is simple politicisation and exhibition and attempts to undermine a legitimate democratic majority in the Danish Parliament, where an open decision was taken which had been discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly. So we are not contributing to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101057	Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101100	Politiken of 2 July this year states that the then Prime Minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, according to a classified note from the Prime Minister's Office as early as the beginning of 2002, i.e. a year before the Iraq War began, at least our participation, discussed a possible invasion of Iraq with the US Deputy Secretary of Defense. Can we not find out how long it took from the then Prime Minister's support for the Iraq mission until Parliament was informed of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101137	Questions about the more formal about the whole process are questions to be asked to the Secretary of Defense. And I would also like to say, in relation to this attempt to politicize when a prime minister negotiates with allies about what in a classified document, that of course it is not something I want to say about here from the Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101201	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101204	It is just because I am a little puzzled because the Minister says that everything has been elucidated. That is what he said in his speech, and if everything has been elucidated, one must also know when the Folketing got this information about such an important decision. But let it stand as a big question. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he does not think it provides food for thought that senior officials in the Bush administration, Bush advisers, criticise the fact that we have closed the Commission and believe that Denmark should revive the War Commission, according to Information on 28 August.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101246	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101247	It is new to me that the Socialists are relying on officials from the Bush administration, and it is quite new to me that their instructions are being followed. I can just say that this seems to me to be a question for the Danish Parliament and that this is where the discussion belongs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101301	The next brief remark is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101306	After all, the Minister of Justice would like this to appear as if the whole idea of setting up the Iraq Commission was essentially political teasing. I just have to say that I think it's a little arrogant. In fact, as far as I am aware, all the states involved in the Iraq war have thoroughly examined their own participation in war for many reasons. Partly to put down myths, partly to get smarter. This applies to the United Kingdom, to the United States, which is why it is strange that Denmark, as one of the few countries involved in the Iraq war, does not want everything to be brought forward for the sake of the veterans who have explicitly asked that we finish the work. So I just have to say that it is political teasing that I think it is arrogant to the soldiers we sent down there and to their relatives. However, I am well aware of the attitude of the government, which is why my question is, in fact, another one. If it was a question of us wanting to exhibit certain politicians, then there is nothing to prevent at least publishing those parts of the Commission's work that have been done and that are not about calling some and getting some to walk up stairs, as the Minister of Justice says. Is the government at least prepared to put forward what the Commission has been able to do, because there is obviously nothing to hide?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101426	It's always nice to be called arrogant by a radical, because then you know it comes from a true acquaintance. But I would say that the fact that a committee of inquiry was voted through as closely as it did does does not exactly indicate that this was about establishing a proper study on a broad basis of what was going on. And I do not understand to this day that we did not seek a settlement and that we did not try to spread this out so that a broad majority in the Folketing could gather about it. When it comes to the issue of documents, the Government considers that the question of access to material must be assessed in accordance with the general rules of the Public and Archives Act. They represent a general balance between, on the one hand, the public interest and, on the other hand, the concern for state security, other countries and the burden of resources on the authorities. And then there will also be consideration of the legal certainty of those involved. It strongly opposes the establishment of a special law or other special publicity system on the documents drawn up by the committee which has been set up. Those concerned will not be able to defend themselves against the conclusions that will be drawn from the fragmented parts of the material on which attention will be focused.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101540	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101541	I don't know if sir. Søren Pind himself can hear that the endings he's making here bite himself a little bit in the tail. In other words, it was our fault that at the time the Left did not want a commission, although all the parties that the Left agreed to enter the Iraq War, in Britain, in the United States and in several other countries have wanted commissions in their countries. We could not get the Left to join us, and that is why we are closing now and we are justifying our closure by saying that the Left did not want to support it. Secondly, it is said that we cannot publish the documents which have at least come out of it because we do not want to complete the whole process; because we cannot carry out the witness hearings against which the Left is opposed. But I think that at least we owe the veterans and the public the 10 million. kr., we've spent investigating it, getting some results. It doesn't hurt anyone at all, no matter what lawyers in the Justice Department try to wrap it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101638	I would just like to remind you, for the sake of good order, that ministers are addressed by title and not by name in the Chamber of Parliament. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101644	Our view is clear: this was a political reduction, and the fact is that when you speak so warmly in favour of the veterans' cause, it might have been appropriate to have spread it here to include larger parts of the Folketing. And when it comes to the question of war participation, which is a piece outside my resort, I would just like to say that unlike everyone else's war participation, the Danish participation was not about bad intelligence, but had a completely different basic view. And that is why some other countries have been busy carrying out investigations, because how could we actually follow the information in question in this situation? It was not the basis of the Danish war.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101724	The next brief remark is Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101728	It is very important to me to overcome party colors here and to restrict beliefs about politicisation, and I think that Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned something that is important. This debate should not, of course, be about whether anyone should be exhibited. It must be about getting some answers on the track that can make us smarter and, above all, putting our veterans in a different situation from what they feel is being put in today, where they actually feel they are responsible for some of the uncertainties that lie behind the efforts that have been made. So that is actually more my question. When I ask the question of what it takes to reopen the Iraq Commission, I am told that what needs to be clarified has been clarified, so that it cannot be reopened. I have tried to ask again and just ignored party colours, including the alternative, which was not at all in the Danish Parliament at the time, and when I ask what alternative studies the government will offer to the many Danish veterans and soldiers who feel that the closure of the Iraq Commission is pushing the responsibility for the vagueness of the war upon them, I am told again: Well the matter has been clarified. And I'm thinking, let's finally find another way. I wish we could reopen the Iraq Commission, but what is the alternative on the part of the government if we really just want to get new knowledge in play and become wiser? I think it is a pity just to point out that this is political teasing and that therefore nothing will be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101845	There's one thing I don't understand. We are talking about the veterans, as if they were exclusively the veterans of the Iraq War. It's a lack of respect for the veterans. For there are many, many other veterans, not least from the Balkans, who have been very heavily burdened with the work they did back then, but very carefully they are kept out of the equation. If you really meant it seriously, and I am quite aware that the alternative was not in the Folketing at the time, then it is not the alternative that I am referring to here, but if you had meant it seriously with the veterans, a thorough investigation would have been carried out. Instead, it ended where it ended. It was the pre-election announcement; both the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance said to the Left in March that the commission should be abolished. And the Left had two considerations, which were either to extend the mandate so that everything could be brought in, or to end the Iraq Commission. And that was the last thing because the Iraq Commission was born with an inherited sin, it was politically inflamed and affected by the fact that the majority in question actually committed a form of political abuse of power when it was set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101957	Sir. Gade
ParlaMint-DK_20151113101958	In order to make the most of the time, I think I can refrain from going deeper into this, because it can wait until my rapporteur's speech, and instead ask the Minister for Justice what we could do about it. Is it entirely in the interest of the government and the Minister of Justice perhaps to carry out a study that goes back to Kosova to get a broad clarification of what we have learned from the Danish interventions that can help us how we act in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102024	Quite frankly, it is outside my competence to state it. In other words, what I can answer is the formal nature of the closure of the Commission in question. The discussions which Mr. René Gade asks me to deal with is simply outside the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice to express my opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102044	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen for a brief remark
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102046	I noticed that the Minister said that setting up such a commission is a serious matter, but it is also a serious matter to go to war. It is for the soldiers who risk their lives, and it is for a society that is deeply affected by it. That is also why, in other countries, the United States and the United Kingdom are particularly concerned about investigating the Iraq war. And in this context it is no argument that, according to the government, the basis of war was different here in Denmark. After all, it was the same war that we took part in, the same problems that the Danish soldiers were facing as the British and the Americans. And so I simply do not understand that you are so what I would call arrogant in relation to this discussion. Are there examples, Minister, that other governments have acted in the same way that they have closed a commission that was in progress? Because the characteristic thing here is that in this country there is indeed a tradition that when a government sets up a commission and it is in the process of working, the Commission will be allowed to continue to work after a parliamentary election and then it will not be subjected to the politicisation which this government has done to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102211	That is simply wrong. I myself, as Minister for Integration, set up a Commission to look into the possibility of changing Danish immigration policy and the second the new government came to, the commission was closed down. So that is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102226	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102227	Yes, but I would still like to comment on why the government cannot see that it is a very, very serious matter to have this investigated, both in relation to the soldiers who have put their lives at risk, but also in relation to the discussion here in the Folketing. One example that has been up is that according to a document Anders Fogh Rasmussen should have given the promise to Wolfowitz approx. A year before the war that we would support the Americans. That is an extremely relevant piece of information on the whole run-up to the Iraq War. Isn't that supposed to be investigated? It is true that we cannot discuss this here on the platform, but that is why we have set up a commission to get to the bottom of these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102325	Well, sir. Holger K. Nielsen and I can of course spend a lot of time discussing why the commission in question was set up. I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen's assessment. If you had had the interests of Mr. Holger K. Nielsen indicates that a broader mandate had been sought in the Folketing. Now it became a close party political fight, the reduction was surrounded by politicisation. And if you have not wanted to make a settlement when you have not wanted to make an agreement on the situation, you must, of course, be able, when the majority changes, to tolerate the new majority acting in accordance with the politicisation, the clock error with which the commission in question was equipped. And, by the way, it was announced to all the voters and indicated well in advance of the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102411	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102414	Thank you. It is interesting to hear that the Minister, like himself, relies on the fact that in the then decision-making framework for the whole of Denmark's participation in the war, Denmark had not supported itself with the same intelligence, since we did not refer directly to the weapons of mass destruction, but more to the need to create democracy in Iraq. Despite this, the then Foreign Minister was in debates in the Parliamentary Chamber several times and referred to exactly the intelligence from both the United States and the United Kingdom which proved so wrong. In the debates that took place in this Chamber, there were several references in public to the presence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. At the same time, the Minister now says in this debate, with some sort of abhorrence, that he is not interested in a debate about our participation in war at the time, which is a politician. But the fact is that it is deeply political, and it is still gone to this day. After all, there are a great many observers who believe that the Pandora's box, which we ourselves helped to open back in 2003, is also what has led to civil war in Syria, among other things. It is still a big discussion in the United States. As recently as the second day it called the 41st president, old Bush, Cheney and Rumsfeld respectively, and I quote verbatim and apologize in advance: "Breaks of iron." Does it not impress the Minister that it is still in a debate that is going on and that we also need to learn exactly what the experience is before taking such a serious decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102542	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102545	After all, it is not the case that it is within the competence of the Minister for Justice to shut down the public debate. Well, fortunately, it's going on in the best possible way. I can also hear in this Chamber that there are quotes from classified documents, so it is not the case that access to certain documents has completely disappeared. Apparently talented media and others succeeded in providing things, such as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen and others find interesting. At the same time, then, we have rules, both in the Archive Act and in the Public Service Act, which can be applied in research terms or whatever you want to do in that context. So the impression that the public discourse has been killed is frankly not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102622	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102625	But if it were in the interests of the Minister! Now he has referred on several occasions to the fact that the reason why the Commission was laid down was that it did not think the mandate was wide enough. The minister calls it politicians, despite the fact that I think there is hardly anything more political than the election to send soldiers to war and invade a country, etc. However, does it not impress the Minister that this is a discussion that is going on and has been made very, very clear in virtually every other country that chose to send troops to war at the time, nor does it impress the Minister that his parliamentary basis, the Liberal Alliance, has, in any case, supported by the public at least that the Iraqi Commission should be reopened and looked at carefully?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102709	I think that is misunderstood. I have to say that if you go back to the statements that preceded the formation of the government, you will see that the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance called for the closure of the Iraq Commission and where the Left had staggered between a broader mandate or a definite resignation, and it ended in a resignation, moreover, announced to the electorate before the elections. When I say this with politicisation, it is precisely about the fact that yes, war is a serious matter, and that is why it should not be misused politically to advance its own cause, but just seek clarification of what Danish war participation has done. How did it go with veterans etc.? But that was not the intention. The intention was the narrow, it was in the Iraq War, it was Anders Fogh Rasmussen, it was Per Stig Møller, it was Søren Gade etc. That was the intention. If you had thought better, the Iraq Commission, which should then have been called something else, would not have been closed down today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102803	Mrs Krarup has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102805	Thank you. It has been pointed out by some debaters that Danish veterans would have preferred the work of the Commission to continue, and it is also true that some veterans who have participated in the debate have wanted it. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Justice if he is aware that the Veteranalliance, which is a broad umbrella organisation for veteran organisations in Denmark, has written in their leader: in the Veteranalliance we think it is positive that the government is finally prioritising real people with real problems and calling for real solutions rather than a year-long Commission work that none of us can use for anything concrete. So there is a large veteran organisation which supports the decision to close the Commission's work. Was the Minister of Justice aware of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102855	I will now do something very rare. I admit that as a minister I was not aware of what Mrs Krarup saw as being published in the Chamber. This shows just what I am saying, namely that free expression of opinion can also produce new knowledge in more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102911	Mrs Krarup has no further comments. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102918	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for his speech and statement. In fact, I had prepared another question, but I just heard the Minister from the platform say that the Minister actually thought it appropriate to examine how we are doing better in the future, how we ensure the veterans and such things, so I would like to ask whether the Minister could then explain whether the Minister is planning other studies, because that is something that I think is really interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113102949	No, what I have said was that it was obvious that there were some considerations in my party as to whether to go one way or the other. Our recognition was then ultimately, even after discussion with the parties responsible for the formation of the government, that the Iraq Commission was simply too contaminated in itself. And then there are some issues which are being investigated, and there will be a new military manual next year. What is to happen, moreover, must be open to discussion in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103026	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103027	Thank you. Then I think I will go back to my original question, because some of what I think is really a pity when we sit here in Parliament and follow this debate is that the word politicisation is actually used in both places. It is being used both in connection with the fact that we went to war in Iraq and it is being used in connection with the setting up of the Commission. I think it is such a pity that we are putting an end to this commission because it could actually give us the knowledge that we are becoming wiser in terms of how we are going to go to war in the future, which I am predicting we are going to do in the future too. So is there no possibility that the Minister will nevertheless consider not to abolish the Iraq Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103108	I think I'll have to say it relatively squarely then. The Iraq Commission is so it cannot continue. The answer to that question, of course, is, as you will see, if you look at the government base, a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103128	That leaves no further questions for the Minister, so we thank him. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103137	Thank you. The other day I read a very interesting article, which was a post in Information by Peter Viggo Jakobsen, Associate Professor at the Royal Danish Defence College. It's called not see, not hear, just speak for yourself. I would like to start by quoting from it: there are just as many bids for whether we have lost or won in Afghanistan as there are experts, politicians and commentators. Everyone constructs their own reality and argues from it. I would recommend that everyone read this article because it outlines very well the debate we have today. It is a big mistake that the government has rejected the Iraq Commission from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party. The Left creates secrecy where there is a need for openness and, as a democratic society, we must, of course, learn from one of the most landmark security policy developments in recent times. It is not true when the Minister for Justice of the Left claims that everything has been sufficiently elucidated. This was also highlighted very well in the debate here earlier, where there were a number of questions to which he was unable to answer. The soldiers we send out on international missions to fight under the Danish flag, we owe the greatest respect and gratitude. When you risk your life for freedom and peace, you give the most precious thing you have as a human being. The same goes for the relatives who wake up every day with the fear that the worst possible message will come. If respect and recognition of our soldiers are to be more than just fine words, if we politicians are to show our genuine gratitude, we owe it to the soldiers and their relatives to examine the basis for our participation in war. Politicians must take their own medicine. Of course, we demand of our defence workers that their actions be examined in detail if there is the slightest doubt as to whether there are civilian losses or other mistakes made, not least in order to be able to do better another time. The soldiers agree with this, and they do not question it. In a democracy, it is absolutely crucial that we, as a Parliament and a people, can hold the government to its responsibilities. This requires a government to be ready to investigate itself, even if it is politically inconvenient. This requires a government to have the courage to be looked at and wiser so that democracy does not weaken. This requires a government to be ready to look at decisions that have historically been made. It was precisely on the basis of the arguments that the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission was set up and that is why we Socialists supported it. The unanswered questions are many, and over the summer the need for the work of the Commission has been updated further, not least since, as I mentioned, in Politiken through leaked documents, the then Prime Minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, according to a classified note from the Prime Minister as early as March 2002, i.e. one year before the beginning of the Iraq War, discussed a possible invasion of Iraq with the US Deputy Defence Minister. It is therefore deeply relevant to see whether the Danish Parliament was in any way informed of this alleged support for the war participation, or whether the Prime Minister of the country acted on his own. And it also gives me food for thought when both the United States and England have not held back from examining the basis for their participation, and when even American top officials, who contributed to the US's decision to go to war in Iraq, call for the revival of the Iraq Commission. If you take out the mandate and review that point by point, the Left should be able to give answers to each individual question. But they simply cannot. That is why it is not true when they claim that everything has been clarified and, in addition, the many contradictory statements and information on the matter of Denmark's participation, which have come from various ministers. With these words, I would like to say that we Socialists support the resolution here today. We think it's important to have this case fully investigated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103614	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103619	Thank you. The rapporteur took the words of all veterans in his mouth and said that soldiers demand answers and so on. But have we not just heard from Mrs Marie Krarup that there are some veterans who would rather see that we do not continue to talk, but rather go in and look at what we offer the veterans when they come home and that the Veteran Alliance would actually rather see that we spend the money that a commission costs to invest in better conditions for our veterans? So is it not basically the rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, who so far extends the statements of some veterans and takes them all under a hat? Is that a fair way to treat the Danish veterans?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103710	I expressed the position of the Social Democratic Party, and I think I am entitled to do so as rapporteur. We Social Democrats believe that we owe it to the soldiers, the veterans and their relatives to look into this in depth. Then I must also say that for me it is not a either-or; it is a boat-and-so. Of course, there must be proper conditions for our veterans, and of course we must examine the basis for going to war to the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103737	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103739	Then I am just confused, perhaps at a higher level, because I thought the rapporteur used the word'soldiers' at the beginning of his speech all the way through. And then I just have to get used to the fact that the Social Democrats speak of each other internally as soldiers and not as combat buddies.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103757	That question does not really make any sense. What I said both in my speech, and which I have just repeated, is that it is the clear position of the Socialists that we owe it to our soldiers, veterans and their relatives to look into this matter in depth. That is the position of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103813	The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103816	My ears are shattered when the rapporteur talks about the fact that veterans and relatives of veterans are owed to revive the Commission. I am the mother of a veteran, I am thus a relative myself, and I feel that I am being taken hostage in a political matter. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he would not like to acknowledge that in the Veteran Alliance, which is an umbrella organisation for a large number of veteran organisations, there is a great deal of pleasure in the fact that the Commission has been shut down because it will be possible to release some funds for the veteran area. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether he will not stop acting as if the Socialists are based on a broad demand from veterans and relatives to continue their work, because that is not the case at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103911	Now it is the case that Mrs Marie Krarup does not have a patent to be a relative of a veteran. There are also Social Democrats who are boyfriends, sisters, brothers, spouses or parents of veterans. There are many views on this issue, the position of the Socialists is clear: we want the basis to be clarified. We believe it would be respectful to our veterans, our soldiers and their relatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103940	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113103941	I think it is disrespectful to veterans to spend money on useless police investigation rather than spending it on veterans. And I would ask the rapporteur not to do as if he owes it to all veterans and relatives. No, there are some veterans who are probably or perhaps Social Democrats and who have taken part in the debate who want this. But there are many who want the opposite. And it's not okay to do it like you're talking on behalf of all veterans, like you owe all veterans something. The veterans are very much owed something, but not that there is a commission that spends 14 million. kr. I believe that there is no need to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104027	Well, that's where we disagree. We Social Democrats believe that we owe it to our soldiers, our veterans and their relatives to look into this in depth. The Danish People's Party considers that it is not for anyone to examine Denmark's participation in war to the full, does not believe that it is relevant, even for the soldiers, veterans and relatives who say that this will be an important decision, will be an important study work. That's where we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104056	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speakers is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104111	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we do not see a need for the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission to be reopened. We think it was a sensible decision to close it down and, in particular, to use the funds released in the field of veterans. We believe that the areas to be dealt with by the Commission have been so extensively dealt with in the press and in the public debate. There are many important political issues that have been addressed and debated well, but they are precisely political and should not be tried into legal issues. This is, for example, the case. on the question of the possibility of going to war and the importance of conventions for warfare. The Commission's work can be seen as an attempt to transform political issues into legal issues. This does not make any sense and it would risk closing the healthy political debate on the issues. I would therefore urge everyone to take part in the debate that is still going on, about war and about Denmark's efforts in it, but without spending precious tax money on the project. The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104218	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104223	I think we all agree very much that the veterans deserve good treatment, so I don't want to dig deeper into that. I think that when we say that it is a very, very expensive commission, and that there are other things to spend the millions on, I cannot help but relate it to the airplane purchase we are making, not that I have to assess whether it is right or wrong, but here we are talking about a 30 billion. DKK investment. We could not agree in the alternative, the Danish People's Party and perhaps more parties that the 14 million. kr. we're talking about here, don't have to leave the veterans, that's not what we're talking about. I think it is pears and bananas to say that if we choose to reopen the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission, something goes away from the veterans. I don't think we should take them hostage in that game.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104311	In other words, it is an explicit wish of the government that this money should be spent in the field of veteranism. So if the alternative could find a lot of extra money, one could say that then the problem was not there. But there is still a political problem in it. There is the political problem that the Commission is trying to legalise some issues which should be political. This is a problem because it closes the political debate in the long term. That is why there are fundamental reasons for this. It is not purely for economic reasons. I find it very appealing that an unnecessary commission, which some claim has been created for veterans' sake, should be abolished, but these are as false words as they may be and then you take that money and give it to the veteran area. I think that is a real decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104357	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104358	It is quite possible that it is my questions and the other questions in the Chamber that are simply not good enough, but I find it difficult to get the answers we are asking in this Chamber. I therefore think that a commission or other body that I am not the right one to describe could be interesting. I do not think we are getting very far in this discussion about whether it is sensible to reopen it and whether it is possible to do so. We are simply told that this is not something the Minister can assess. Is it acceptable for the Danish People's Party that the debate that is actually being asked for by the Danish People's Party also on how to improve in the future and learn from the past does not exist in the Chamber today at least?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104438	It may not be here today, but the debate has been going on for a very long time. There has been a long debate on section 19 of the Constitution. 2, i.e. whether it is the Folketing that decides whether we are going to war or who else is. There has been a long debate on the treatment of prisoners of war. There have been legal proceedings concerning the treatment of prisoners of war, Annemette Hommel's case, etc. There has been so much; we have been illuminated every corner. But of course there are cases that cannot be clarified: What did Anders Fogh Rasmussen think about that and that date at that and that time? That cannot be clarified. And there are some things that are outside the possibility of getting them clarified. There I think you simply have too much expectations in some parties about what you can do
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104520	There are two more who have asked for brief comments. The first is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104526	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will not confirm that veterans in particular are many different people and that they are relatives too. That is why I think it is inappropriate for the rapporteur to highlight precisely what I think the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party did and that the commission has been set aside to spend the money on veterans. Well, the Veteran Alliance is just one of many veteran organizations. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that there have been a large number of veteran organisations and other organisations promoting that it was regrettable that the Iraq Commission was closed down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104613	That is where we have to go, then, where we have to recognise that there are some who say that, and then there are some who say the other, and therefore we should not generalise and say that all veterans want you and that, because that is not the case. Veterans are also politically committed, and there are probably also some who are members of the rapporteur's party. I was just about to say, unfortunately, but it is probably not possible to do so here from Parliament's platform, because it is also allowed to be a member of the Enhedslisten. But we must not pretend that we are speaking for all veterans. At least there are some parties that must stop saying that it is an accident that the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission has been shut down, because there are many veterans who think it is a very good idea, as I have just pointed out by reading this quote from the Veteran Alliance, which is, after all, an umbrella organisation for a large number of veteran organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104705	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104706	As I understand it, it is not the largest organization, but leave it alone. In the same way, it must be said that the rapporteur must also take it very, very seriously when, at the same time, there are a number of veterans who say that they would like the matter to be examined. And I cannot understand that it is not something that weighs more heavily on the Danish People's Party, which I also often hear as defending veterans' terms. There I think we should listen to the part that wants the study to be carried out. But I would just like to ask: if you would rather spend the money at a veteran center now, why didn't the Danish People's Party and the other parties that sent people to war then ensure proper treatment of the veterans then? Isn't that awfully long time to wait? I think it is very reasonable to drop money, but I do not think that justifies the closure of the Commission. I think the funds should have been used much earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104755	Of course, you must always listen to all veterans as well as all politicians I listened to, for example. Patience to Mrs Eva Flyvholm's question right now, of course, you have to do that and you have to take the debate. So that's it. But let us not say that the veterans who support Mrs Flyvholm's point of view are much, much more important than those who support the second point of view. Why haven't veterans been secured in advance? There's one thing to say. We have learned along the way; we have carried out a veteran policy while it was going on because we were not really aware of how violent it was. And there has gradually been a very, very sensible veteran policy, but more money can always be spent on that, and we have long lists of projects that we are discussing at conciliation meetings that we want to support, and we never have enough money to support them all. So all means are always welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104848	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104851	This is not a question of veteran politics, it is a question of getting some experience from the Danish war participation in Iraq, in particular, but also Afghanistan. The other day, Dansk Folkeparti was against our Malie engagement. There were a number of considerations about how difficult it was and how problematic it was, etc. Why are you so lenient about the Iraq War? Why has it always been so when we joined the war at the time, but also in relation to the subsequent processing? And why can a commission of inquiry not get to the bottom of some of the problems that have to be dealt with after any war participation, as has been done in Britain, as is done in the United States, and as has been done in a large number of countries? Because there you take this seriously, there you are not as lenient as the Danish People's Party is in relation to war participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113104957	I do not think I quite understand what the rapporteur is saying laxly. In other words, the Constitution states that it is the Folketing that decides whether to go to war, and that is what happened, it was a political issue. There have been tons of articles written, books made, television shows made, I don't know what about the Iraq War, and that's excellent. There is so much to debate and it is an extremely important debate whether Denmark is a sovereign country with the opportunity to decide for itself when to participate in a war or not; it is an important debate that we must continue to have something to build on in the future when we have to take a position on other war participation. So I can only support that, which I do not think is lax, which I think is very, very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105046	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105048	Yes, a lot has been written, but the very in-depth study had not been started until this commission began. And it was characteristic that the chairman of the Commission said, after a decision had been taken to close the Commission, that he was sorry, because some very interesting things were actually coming up. There were some fruits you could pick, but you weren't allowed to do that now. And given how many documents have subsequently been produced, does the rapporteur not think that it is relevant to Danish society, to our democracy, that it is properly processed, rather than coming out through random leaks and being processed in various articles?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105139	Should I understand the rapporteur's view that it is not a proper way to have a public debate when books and journalists and historians are written and dealt with in an area, but that it is only right if it is a legal commission of inquiry sitting with it? Because in that case we are very, very disagreeable about what a proper debate is. A proper debate is that everyone can participate and that anyone who has expertise can also participate, and I think that is fine. This is necessary in order for us to be able to form a sensible position when similar issues arise in the future. That is what democracy is based on, that is, an enlightened debate, and that is what we have. If we legalize it and thus judge something out and say that some of this is a rock-solid truth that we cannot turn away from at all, then we are doing violence against the democratic and public debate. There can be no such thing with historical questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105233	There is an extra person who has submitted for brief comments. This is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105238	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether she believes that there is absolutely nothing we can learn from Denmark's participation in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. Is there nothing we could benefit from knowing about in relation to our democracy and our participation in war so that we could do better some other time?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105259	We have There is no need for a commission to further process it. It is quite unnecessary work. As I have just mentioned, there has been a lot of debate; there have been legal proceedings in this area; books and articles have been written and television broadcasts have been held, etc. We've learned a lot of it, and it's really, really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105329	Mrs. Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105330	Well, then, I would like to take out a quote from the chairman of the largest defence workers' union, namely the Central Association for Staff. He says: "When there is doubt about the legality of the Danish warfare, it falls back on the soldiers and what they do in the world. It is our view that all stones should be turned around so that we can bring them to light if there is something that has not been right. I therefore understand that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party believes that this is not an argument... these soldiers should not be listened to. You have to listen to those who do not want to study the basis. But does it not impress the rapporteur that the chairman of the largest trade union is saying this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105416	Listen, these are two different things. The question is, of course, whether it should end in a legal light or whether it should end in a political debate. This must be brought to an end in a political debate, and I strongly support it. For example: We should have debated the influence of international conventions on the possibilities of warfare. It is really a debate that needs to be held; it is a political area, it is not a legal area. So, yes, everything has to be turned around here, there is no doubt about that at all. This is absolutely not to be done in a Commission set up for a legal purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105447	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105457	In the Left, we believe that the basis for Danish participation in the Iraq War and the relationship between the detention of people by Danish soldiers during the Danish war participation in Iraq and Afghanistan has already been sufficiently clarified. What Enhedslisten wants with motion for a resolution B 10 is to make a mix of politics and law. It was a legal commission that was set up, but it was therefore a political decision, on the one hand, to go to war and, on the other hand, to set up a commission to look at it here. We in the Left believe that we have a good, solid basis for drawing up a military manual which is being prepared. It is, of course, an experience collection on the efforts that Danish soldiers have been in, and it will of course be used to make things even better in the future. Having said this, one might well wonder why there is virtually no personality on the left which, in the last ten years, has not clearly indicated that they think this war was illegal. And if the left side is so sure about its case, why is it necessary to spend millions of tax dollars investigating it? Again, it was a political decision in accordance with the Constitution to go to war, and it was a political decision to set up a commission, and it was a political decision to remove it again. The Left does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105650	There are brief comments. The first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105655	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur from the Left whether he really believes that everything has been clarified in relation to what is happening to the prisoners who have been taken in Afghanistan and Iraq. After all, we now know that there is a trial on prisoners from Iraq who have been extradited to torture. We know that, after the Iraqi Commission was abolished, archives with these prisoners, lists of them, had simply disappeared. These are things that we in the Enhedslisten have been asking for years and have not been able to get an answer to. Now it appears that very, very central documents have actually disappeared here, which should have been presented. Does the Minister really believe that everything has been explained in relation to the way Denmark handled and took prisoners in Iraq and Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105801	I should like to start by welcoming the fact that the questioner calls me the Minister. But we both cross our fingers. Why don't we tell him? I believe, in fact, that when you look at the number of questions that have been asked, when you look at the large amount of experience that has been gained internally in the defence and that needs to be used for the preparation of the military manual, you have to say that we have sufficient knowledge of how to do this and make it better in the future. The questioner also knows that when we were sitting at the same meeting at the beginning of the week in the Ministry of Defence, it appeared that some of the conditions that the military had become really, really sharp. So, you just have to be careful that you do not take any political positions and put them into a legal commission, because we cannot stand by that. It was a legal commission, but it was a political decision to go to war and it was in accordance with the Constitution, just as it was a political decision to set up the Commission and a political decision to remove the Commission again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105913	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105914	Then I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that it is very much a legal question whether Denmark has complied with its international obligations, with human rights and international law, in the way that the issue of prisoners has been dealt with; that it is a legal question whether ministers have misled the Folketing in the answer given to questions; and that it is a legal question how key documents are stored for posterity and whether we have control of what is happening to the prisoners being taken. Is that a legal question? I think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113105952	Well, there's an experience collection going on throughout this process. Many of the questions put by the questioner have been answered. There are also written answers to them. But this is a political decision to abolish a politically established commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110013	Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110015	I hope that the rapporteur of the Left can help me a little, because just before, the speaker from the rapporteur on the Left's largest support party, Mrs Krarup from the Danish People's Party, said that she fully agrees that everything should be turned over, but it should not be a commission. Can the rapporteur of the Left help me a little on the way? How, then, is it to be examined if it is not to be a commission that examines everything in depth?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110043	In other words, the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party asks me to explain what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was saying in my ears very clearly from up here. I'm not gonna go out on that galley. I would like to reply on behalf of my party and not on behalf of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110059	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110101	We just have to assume that, since the Danish People's Party is larger than the Left and is the largest support party for the Left to sit on the government power, one must have some kind of coordination, not least when there is a requirement, which we clearly heard, that everything should be examined to the bottom, just not in a commission. We must then expect an answer to be given as to how this should be investigated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110131	There is no doubt that the parties are, of course, talking. However, I am delighted on behalf of the Enhedslisten, if the Social Democrat rapporteur has come to the conclusion, that things need to be better talked together and coordinated, because I think the Social Democrats could have learned a lot from that under the previous government. We should not insist in here that questions addressed to particular parties are put to representatives of those parties and not to people from other parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110203	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110206	As far as formalities are concerned, I assume that the rapporteur agrees that there are Commission studies on political issues. That is why it was entirely appropriate to set up this commission to investigate the Iraq war. I would also like to say that, when the rapporteur keeps arguing with the Constitution and with Paragraph 19 of the Constitution, he knows that this is not what this is about in relation to the basis of the Iraq war. It is a question of whether international law was in order. And how almost inflamed it is, it turned out when the new Minister for Defence arrived right after the summer break and had to put his argument forward as to why this commission should be closed down, because he said that it was well known that there were no weapons of mass destruction. Everybody knew there wasn't. At once he had to be put in place by others who said: No, no, that is not our argument at all formal and so on. But the reality is that some formalistic argument was being used which was actually completely out of sync with what was the real reason for this. And that must then be investigated, should it not be examined in relation to the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110320	Now I wasn't in Parliament in 2003. But what I remember from the public debate is that the reason why we went to war in Iraq was that Saddam Hussein did not comply with UN resolutions. So I do not know where the rapporteur for the SF is going. As far as I remember history, that was why we went to war in 2003, and I don't know anyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110346	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110349	I was here in Parliament for a whole day to discuss these things. A whole day I was here, and I guarantee that the only thing that was discussed was weapons of mass destruction. It was simply so, and that is what the Foreign Minister went out with at the time. That is what the whole debate was about. The fact that you then knitted some sort of procurator knife together legally, which was developed in Britain by him as Goldsmith, is then one thing, but when even the Secretary of Defense came into contact when he had to justify it, then there is reason for us to look at the real reason for this Danish war participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110434	In other words, if we insist that the reason why we went to war was that there was a majority in the Danish Parliament, which was right in the constitution to ensure that we could go to war and get something done about this, then we must also bear in mind that the reason for going to war was what was stated in the motion for a resolution that made us go to war. And I guess there were some resolutions that Saddam Hussein did not observe. Wasn't that why we went to war? After all, we can go back and look at the minutes of the Danish Parliament and see if that is not the case. I wasn't here in 2003. I am delighted to have a colleague who was here in 2003, but I do not know about the debate from then on, because I was simply not in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110514	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110518	Thank you. Well, it is now, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen said that we are also setting up commissions to clarify political decisions, but I understand from the rapporteur that he believes that we have learned what we should do. At least that is what he said just now, and so there was no reason to further illustrate it. Can the rapporteur tell us exactly what we have learned? Have we learned that we should not go to war in the future without a very, very broad mandate in the Folketing? Have we learned that we must go to war with all nations that do not comply with UN resolutions to which the rapporteur referred before? I can tell you that many nations do. Israel, for example, does. I would not recommend that we go to war with Israel tomorrow. Have we learned that it is a bad idea to base our participation in this kind of thing on other countries' erroneous intelligence? Can the rapporteur not tell us exactly what we have learned? I have some doubts about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110613	What we have learned is among other things. what forms the basis of the military manual you sit and write on over at the Ministry of Defence. These are some of the experiences that must help to ensure that when we send Danish soldiers out on dangerous missions in the future, they have the necessary answers that enable you to handle prisoners and you can behave in a good and proper manner according to conventions etc. That's what we learned from it. But otherwise, I am going to say that setting up the Commission was a political decision, and it is therefore also a political decision to remove it again. You may agree or disagree with that, but that is what the Folketing says, because there is a majority in favour of it in here, just as there was a majority who said that we should be involved in Iraq and in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110705	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110707	Yes, but it's quite fine that the defense is working on a defense manual. I think there are a great many of the soldiers who have been on the ground who might have needed this in the past. With regard to what we have been curious about, the rapporteur is quite right to say that, of course, it was a political decision, and he can also say that it is a political decision to abolish it. But what is it that we, as a nation, especially a small nation, are becoming wiser in relation to what military engagements we are participating in and what are some military engagements we are not participating in? It is just that it has to be said that the decision to participate in the Iraq war was, in every way possible, a quite big mistake, and we have not properly clarified the basis for concluding that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110749	I think we should rely on the majority of the Folketing to decide. Then you can then say that it was not a wise decision. One can say that it was a wrong decision and that it has all failed, but it is the majority in the Folketing who decides which wars Denmark should get involved in, and of course we must think very carefully. I am very much in favour of the answer which my colleague from the Danish People's Party also gave when she said that much of this also had to be done through the public debate, because what the rapporteur would like, I do not think, could have been achieved by a Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110827	Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110831	Yes, I hope that both my question and my answer will be left out of party colour and political games, because I really do think it is a pity if we cannot take this debate without shooting each other in the shoes that we are trying to tease. I have seen a few times that former Secretary-General Kofi Annan said that the war was illegal. A great many international law lawyers have said that it is very difficult to find the mandate that should make it legal. I think one person has said that it is both for and against the fact that it was legal, so let me say that I certainly do not know for myself. But isn't it problematic that we can't find out if we've gone to war illegally? I do not think that has anything to do with politics. It does not matter which government has taken the decision or what mandate in the Folketing has been able to do so. But I think it is essential that the Danish people should find out whether we have gone to war illegally, whether we have treated victims of torture illegally. It does not matter who has done it and who has been responsible. It's been in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113110939	So, if we insist that we went to war on the basis of Saddam Hussein's failure to comply with any UN resolutions, then we can stand back and look at the resolutions he was asked to observe. There the rapporteur will see that they did not respect Saddam Hussein. And the rapporteur will also be able to go back and see: was there a majority in the Folketing at that time who said that it was a good idea for us to go into the coalition that tried to get Saddam Hussein to comply with the resolutions. We've respected the Constitution, but then we haven't gone to war illegally. Then I am not aware whether Kofi Annan or anyone else has been out to say that it was very, very slender basis. I simply do not know at all. But I would just like to say that this is fully within the provisions of the Constitution, and thus it was legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111043	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111046	I am almost sure that at some point, probably also from the platform and at least from this place, I will say something where I find out afterwards that it was actually wrong and then have to refute it and say that I have learned from it and that I have become wiser. In fact, that is just what I want to hear, namely whether it is not what we need this Iraq Commission to do or at least find another way to learn, because if we say that it was a united Parliament or at least a Parliament that had the power of decision which adopted it here, then I think it is interesting to find out whether it was adopted on a basis that was not well-informed. And that's what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111123	So where is it that we have to park the truth? I guess the truth is in here. I suppose the truth is among the political majority. We can, of course, go back to the minutes of the United Nations and see if there were any resolutions against Saddam Hussein. We can go back and look at the minutes of the Folketing, and there we can see that there was a political majority. Then political majority change every once in a while, and then a commission was set up which, in my view, was perhaps a little more out on a pat on individuals than on finding the truth. Then there is a new political majority that removes it. The truth is in here, and of course we can all get smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111206	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111208	I think that's fantastic. Well, it's 90 mandates in here that decide what's the truth. If 90 mandates in here decided that the moon was made of green cheese, then the moon was made of green cheese. That's ridiculous. That's what Mr. René Gade is talking about, after all, international law, as was said to have been broken. That's why you talk about an illegal war, but let it go. This is a really serious matter. It's not politics, it's law. It is about whether ministers here in Parliament have deliberately misled the people and parliament. It is about whether prisoners have been extradited to torture and possible death penalty at a time when the Danish authorities were aware of it. It's not politics. This is not something that 90 mandates in here, including the Danish People's Party, have always held their hands under the government, can decide. It's law, and that's why we set up a commission. It was because we could not get to the bottom of it because there was a majority under the old government that held hands under the government so that we could not get the papers that could provide the answers and so that we could not get the information that could provide the answers. It was airtightly sealed. That's why we asked some of Denmark's best lawyers to investigate: Have there been any illegal practices? Are there ministers to be held accountable? That is what you have shut down, I would say to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111326	In other words, the rapporteur's party has asked questions about this both under the previous government and under the previous government. So we have had every opportunity to get answers to the questions. A wave of questions has been asked. And then it's a new piece of information for me that the moon isn't made of green cheese.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111345	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111349	We asked countless questions, and the rapporteur knows what response we received? That was: we cannot answer that for the sake of our international relations. Or we got answers where it looked as if an ink can had been poured over it because it was all crossed out in black. That was why a commission was set up so that in a closed room where confidential information could be accessed, it could be assessed whether it was a lie when Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen said that there were weapons of mass destruction, whether it was a lie when the government said that it did not know that these prisoners could be tortured or sent to Guantánamo where they could be subjected to the death penalty. Was that a lie? That's what we should've looked into. Virtually every other country that has been involved in this war has conducted investigations. This is about the fact that we have a government party in which prominent members bear a heavy responsibility. That is why you have closed this Commission, I would say to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111433	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111435	These are fairly harsh allegations made by the questioner and I will not reply to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111445	There will then be no further brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left and we will proceed in the rapporteur's line to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111503	Thank you. Sending soldiers to war is a serious matter, and it is important that the Danish Parliament always strives to have a decisive broad mandate when doing so. It is incredibly important, and therefore it is good to look at the history books and read about the times Denmark has participated in war. I think that in recent debates we have reflected a learning that when Danish soldiers are sent out, for example, the discussion about sending soldiers to Mali, we have a broader foundation, and that is good. This motion for a resolution on the red side of the House is, on the other hand, a natural consequence of the party-political debate that has been between the red and the blue bloc in this matter. It was a narrow red majority that set up a commission, and it can be interpreted very much as to what the purpose was, but it was not possible to get a broad mandate for that commission. In this way it was placed in such a way that it was quite simple to foresee that a possible shift, another majority which did not agree to set up the Commission, could also use the majority to abolish it. And that's kind of what happened. We cannot then support this motion for a resolution; we fully agreed to abolish the Commission. I would like to add that the Liberal Alliance has made clear a view that we want as much openness and transparency as possible, and that is why we are in dialogue with the government that it is so important to find a form, so that the work that has been done now in the Commission which has already cost considerable amounts, so that the documents and evidence that are not classified can be published from the study that has taken place so that we can learn from it. We will hold the government to that. There must be transparency and publication of that part of the material which can reasonably be requested and expected to be published. So that is the dialogue that we want with the government in the coming period and that we have asked the government for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111745	There are a number of brief comments that we will start with Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111751	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is still a requirement on the part of the Liberal Alliance that the confidential documents in this case be presented. I am simply asking, because the Liberal Alliance has, on several occasions, by the end of October at the latest, made it a massive demand to the government that it should present these documents. I would therefore like to hear from the Commission whether it does not make sense for the Commission to be maintained if it wants the documents to be brought to light.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111829	No, it makes no sense to maintain the commission and a large, expensive and unnecessary commission work. After all, in the course of history, a number of commissions have been set up which have cost quite a lot of money. And we have already undertaken here that those funds are used for our veterans. We fully agree with that is a good choice. A lot of work has been done, there are actually quite a lot of documents, and therefore it is useful for posterity to get to know them and to find a form so that they can be made public in a fair manner, respecting what may be classified. And that is what we are in dialogue with the government about, and that dialogue will continue until we get clarification of how we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111909	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111912	So when Mrs Mette Bock speaks as a representative of the Liberal Alliance, and I quote: "We are strongly in favour of the public, and this is the part of the public that the government should give insight into, so it is only about part of these secret documents and not about the full publicity of the documents that it might be appropriate to clarify in the Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111940	We are in dialogue with the government to produce the documents that can reasonably be presented and in respect of the classified documents. We are in dialogue with the government on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113111953	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112001	I have a bit of shared feelings, because on the one hand it should not be a secret that I think it would be best for everyone to finish the work of the Commission. The vast majority of money is spent. I also think that the fact that half-truths are being brought forth does not necessarily serve those whom a completed commission might have had the opportunity, one might say, to defend in relation to the truths that may come out. And that is why I think that the simplest thing would be to finish it, also because I think we have to face up to the fact that there will be a new majority at a time which will then open up the Commission again, and that could be that the Liberal Alliance could be the key to bringing together a broad majority in the Folketing on how we deal with this matter. On the other hand, however, I am pleased that the Liberal Alliance will at least open up to transparency in relation to some of the documents. But I would like to ask directly: who will decide what to do with and what not to do with? Will the Liberal Alliance demand that some politicians, for example? The Foreign Policy Name, which can do so in a confidential form, helps to define which documents will then be included and which will not be included, or will it be left to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112111	Now we are a parliamentary basis for this government and have an excellent dialogue with the government, and we want to live up to that in this context too. And we do not have anything that is currently drawing in the direction of not having confidence that the government will, in such a way, help to present in a positive spirit what we might want to be presented. That is the dialogue that is going on until we come across a different position and then we take a position at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112132	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112135	I know, sir. Leif Mikkelsen is a very kind person, but to say that this is an idea born in the government camp, so that you have to publish some of the documents, is, I would say, over-friendly to the government. I think the Liberal Alliance should take credit for that. If the Liberal Alliance hadn't stood firm here, the government would have put everything away, all the way away, into a moth bag. And that is why it is not a completely indifferent question, who should then define what the rest of us must look into, what the public must look into, and who, if I may say so, should be allowed to decide what is defined as classified or not. And there I think it might be nice to have a group from the Folketing that helps to look at it, of course, under the obligation of professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112216	Yes, now it is the Liberal Alliance that makes those demands of the government, that is absolutely correct, and we continue to do so. That is why it is also in this context that we will be able to clarify how this can be done and who will decide what. And if we are unhappy with that answer, there are other means to use, and then we use them. For the time being, however, we are in a sensible dialogue with the government on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112234	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112239	As far as I can tell, there is talk of unclassified documents. I just have to say that we simply cannot do anything about that. I have been working on this case for ten years, and the truth lies very much in the classified documents. Well, we have access to the other documents. As we have seen, we have asked hundreds or thousands of questions in the long run, but where we have hit our heads against the wall, we have been in the context of the answers we have not been able to get, for example, because we have not been able to do so. have not had to see the so-called SITREP reports, i.e. daily reports of what has happened out there and because we have not had to see a number of other things. That's why we set up the commission. It was precisely to gain access to the things that we have not been able to access because they were classified. So, unfortunately, this is a free round for the Liberal Alliance. And I am so disappointed because I know that the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance share the desire for transparency, openness and maximum democracy in many areas. But I have to say that in this case, the Liberal Alliance is failing the public, and they are failing the soldiers who, in the future, want this suspicion hanging over them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112351	Now, sir. Pelle Dragsted himself will assess whether he will be satisfied with the work of the Liberal Alliance in providing the openness that is right and reasonable on this issue. We will continue to do so without regret, and if it is not of interest to Enhedslisten, then Enhedslisten will have to choose that position. But we are quite keen to have as much openness as possible, and we will work on that purpose purposefully until it happens, whether Enhedslisten thinks it is totally irrelevant or not. We are not interested in that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112418	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112421	Does the rapporteur think that it is right and that it should have no consequence if ministers on the basis of the Iraq war or on the extradition of prisoners who ended up being killed or tortured have misinformed the Folketing? Or does the rapporteur think that we need to have it examined in depth by independent experts so that we can place a responsibility if there is a responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112450	I have no basis to believe that that information, sir. Pelle Dragsted now points out about certain ministers, should be durable and present, so it must stand for Mr. Pelle Dragsted's own bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112503	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112505	I also find it very, very difficult to understand how a party such as the Liberal Alliance, which speaks of maximum openness in public administration, can, at the same time, set up a commission to examine these major issues in such a fundamental way. I do not think this is an expression of openness, and I would also like the Liberal Alliance today to support us other parties in the fact that we need to resume this commission in order to bring the truth to light. Having said that, however, I am interested in whether the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance will today promise that in the committee's work on this proposal we can proceed to look at a report on how we can get the papers from the Commission's work that has already been done. Because if we count the Liberal Alliance, the Enhedslisten, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Alternative, we actually have a majority who would like the papers to be presented. So will the rapporteur promise me that this is how we proceed with the matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112612	I would just like to say that it is very good to know that there may be a majority if the government does not make a positive contribution to the expectations of the Liberal Alliance in this matter. Mrs Flyvholm has now said that there are other tools. We do not have any need to apply them at the moment. We have nothing to criticize the government for. So we'll see what the answers will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112629	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112632	I don't understand. If you think you want more documents to be produced, then the possibility is actually there now. We have a majority in the Folketing for that. If the Liberal Alliance does not want to seize that opportunity, there is nothing left of the promises or what has been said about openness. I very much hope that the Liberal Alliance will be involved in this committee work. We can only stretch it so far; I do not know what the time horizon is for your discussions with the government. I don't think that much's gonna come of it. So isn't the Liberal Alliance just gonna strike now? At any rate, we have the opportunity to put very clear pressure on the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112710	After all, it is important that things should be taken in the order in which they belong, and that is why I fully support the fact that we are a parliamentary basis for the government. We are in dialogue with the government about creating greater openness in this matter, and we will pursue that. And if we come across land, we'll have to consider what another plan is. For the time being, this is a clear plan for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112731	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112735	Thank you. In other words, it is nice for the rapporteur and for the Liberal Alliance to be in dialogue with the government, but neither the rest of the Danish Parliament nor the Danish public in this way get very much out of it. We heard the Minister for Justice say before that the consideration of the Commission that was given to the government when it came to office was either to extend the mandate or to abolish the commission altogether. You've picked the last one. We also heard the rapporteur himself say that the mandate of the Commission was not broad enough. So can we not ask the rapporteur why the Liberal Alliance has not sought to extend the mandate and extend the Commission's study room, given the crucial mandates?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112816	Well, we were not in favour of setting up the commission, and so, of course, we were in favour of abolishing it again. It's as simple as that. We have had no desire to tamper with the mandate decided by a red majority in the Folketing. That's why.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112829	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112835	But we have, after all, heard prominent politicians from the Liberal Alliance say that it is problematic that the Commission has been shut down, that the various decisions that have been taken here have been publicised. That was the quote from Mette Bock that Mrs Trine Bramssen made just now. So again I just ask: could it not have been more interesting to extend the mandate of the Commission rather than completely resigning it where you then have some private, cozy dialogue with the government to get some documents that are not, by the way, the classified documents that actually give us some answers to the questions that we are looking for answers to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112909	I am not aware of the fact that prominent politicians from the Liberal Alliance believe that it is problematic that the Commission has been closed down. The Liberal Alliance is fully behind the government's resignation from this commission. So the hints that Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen makes, I have no knowledge of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112927	Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113112932	I have noted that the Liberal Alliance will work hard to get the government to open up these documents. I have to say, I almost get chills when I hear Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted tells me about the years he's been working on this, because as a new man in here, I think I'm only scratching the surface right now. And I think a little bit about how the people who voted x parties in the Folketing are thinking right now. Among other things: The Liberal Alliance and the alternative are parties that have been voted in because people are hoping for something new and something better. I have very great respect for, for example, the Left and the Socialists and many other parties who have taken responsibility for many years as governing parties, but that is why they are also responsible. We need to find out what has actually happened, and that is something we must take care of. So I wonder whether the rapporteur will not try to tell me whether the Liberal Alliance thinks that we are living up to the confidence that the electorate has shown, among other things. The alternative and the Liberal Alliance is that we need something more, that we need to create more inclusive democracy, and that we need to create greater trust between citizens and politicians when we do not want to have clarity about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113113033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113113038	Yes, and that is precisely why the Liberal Alliance may be different from the others in the blue bloc, namely by pointing out that the work done in that commission so far must of course be used, and thus there must be publication of that work so that we can learn from it. That's where we stand out clearly. Perhaps that's what you get for voting new parties into the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113113057	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113113101	As I asked the Minister for Justice earlier, I think that the debate on this Iraq Commission is a little blocked today and that instead we could try to move up and think about how we can do it if we want this openness. What does the Liberal Alliance say about doing a study that goes all the way back to Kosovo? This is not something we have talked about in the past, but if the problem is that you think that it is about party colours and political games, then we must get that debate going.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113113124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113113127	Yes, it would be fine if a debate were started that it should not be a party political game when it is such a serious matter as when we send soldiers to war. I fully agree with the rapporteur that a new order in this Parliament in these serious matters requires efforts to be made at all times to have a very broad foundation. We owe it to those we send out who risk their lives for Denmark. So it would be very good if that effort were to increase in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113113156	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Alternative's rapporteur, sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113113208	We have been far and wide today, and I think that in every way there has been reason for it. In the alternative, we fully support the Enhedslisten's proposal to reopen the Iraq Commission. However, that debate has been very, very blocked, and I am sorry that we have not been able to get clear answers from the Minister for Justice in relation to what could be done. I think it has been parked in relation to the fact that it is located in other resorts. Then we must somehow have access to the resort areas and ask the questions better. I must then be the first to wear my cloak, that is, that there are some questions that have not been asked well enough. But when I hear sir... Pelle Dragsted of Enhedslisten and others, who tells us that it is perhaps hundreds, up to thousands of questions that have been asked, it is just as if it is not really the questions it is wrong with, I think. Instead, I'd like us to figure out how to move on from here. So if there can be no support for the opening of the Iraq Commission and if the Liberal Alliance, which could perhaps be the tongue on the scales, does not feel that it, among other things. That is why we have been voted into the Danish Parliament, in order to create an openness that could come, by not believing, as we hear from the rapporteur of the Left, that it is the 90 seats that sit in this Chamber and decide something that has the truth, but that it is us in here who represent a people and a responsibility to find out the truth by perhaps setting up a commission that is completely impartial, where it has nothing to do with party political colours or political games with which the discussion is closed today, so I simply think that we have to lift it here again and then demand from the government that, if not for the sake of the Folketing and the citizens who have voted in the politicians who are sitting here, then, at least for the sake of the veterans and soldiers, those we are sending in war and that we should send out to peacekeeping efforts in the future. I think it is very, very difficult as peace and defence rapporteur for the alternative to decide whether we should send soldiers and peacekeeping forces to Mali in a moment. I have already indicated from the platform, and also from the committee, that we are very positive about and support a UN mission in Mali, but I must also consider whether I can defend to the voters of the Alternative that we support resolutions together with a Parliament and a government that does not seem to want to learn more about the history we ourselves have been involved in creating. I mean, we're gonna have to put that in a think box, but I think it's too bad. At the moment, I am getting answers to 17 questions, as to whether we have it in place so that in the alternative we can send forces to the peacekeeping efforts in Mali. This is something that will be fixed in a week's time in committee, in terms of whether there is competence and there is a majority for us to send intervention forces to Mali. I think it is very significant that this happens in a week. And the reason I have been given for this to happen so quickly is that there will be an EU vote on the reservation, and then there was only one date left. Therefore, there are a number of things that we may not manage before we have to make this decision. I think it's insulting when we hear how many years we've worked with this. So, instead of going into a more detailed analysis of all our views that we have been through in the past, I think we should just lay the foundations for finding a solution to how to reopen this debate. Now it has been said, even on my part earlier today, that we will have to go all the way back to Kosovo and have an investigation or a commission set up if there is no support to reopen the Iraq Commission, because it is considered to be a party political game. I do not think it is right for the parties that started the Commission at the time to say that that is why it was put into effect. I am thinking, on the other hand, that it was because we wanted a great deal of transparency as to why we went to war and what we had to learn from that war. So in the alternative, we fully support Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113113635	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113113644	The Radical Left can also support the proposal. This is due to several factors, first of all, that we helped to set up the Iraq Commission, not as an expression of political teasing, but simply because all the important countries involved in the war both in Iraq and in Afghanistan have decided to do both the fallen soldiers and the veterans who have participated and the relatives the honour of learning from the successes and mistakes made in all wars that are being committed in the event of a war. There has also been a process up to the actual adoption here in the Danish Parliament of going to war, which over the summer of this year, it has to be said, has been put under heavy wraps by the press. The skeletons have been knocked out of the cabinets, and it is quite clear to me that no one, even those against whom the press opposes it, is served by the fact that all the allegations remain standing and hanging in the air without the possibility of verifying whether it is right or wrong what actually happened, without the possibility of the people who have been involved in making the decisions, in order to give their version of what has been going on, and also in order to be able to defend themselves against the accusations that are coming. I simply cannot see whose interest it serves not to bring out all things in this matter. Then the almost tragicomic reason is used that you want to save money, but by far, the vast majority of money has been spent. After all, the Commission had completed all its digging and only lacked the hearings. So it's minimally what you save on money, and all the work that's done is actually wasted. Finally, it is a dull situation, one might say, that when we were in government we could not convince the Left or some of the blue parties that the Danish people deserved a full publication. Now we are in a situation in which the government, again with the narrowest possible majority, just as it was the narrowest possible majority with which to go to war, is now closing the Commission, and now, I think, today we will see that when a new government comes to power at some point, the Iraq Commission will be reopened. Nobody's gonna make a living with that. So I would like to make a strong appeal to the government to at least try to find a solution with the Parliament sitting now. And if it doesn't want to, and we can hear it unfortunately not, I would like to say it directly to Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, that, as I know the Liberal Alliance and the Liberal Alliance's relationship with openness in the administration, the relationship of the Liberal Alliance to the fact that the citizens are ahead of the system, the relationship of the Liberal Alliance and the seriousness of Danish foreign policy, I do not understand that you only want half the truth and not the whole. I think things have come out over the summer after the Liberal Alliance made their position clear in the spring, which could perhaps serve as a basis for a reconsideration of the Liberal Alliance, if not all parties, including those involved in this, will stand better by having the entire Commission's work carried out. But, of course, half a truth is better than none, and of course we would like to be behind the Liberal Alliance if they now demand that the government at least publish the part of the work that has been completed. But I have to say that I think it would have been best for everyone, including for legal certainty, to have the whole work of the Commission carried out. I think it's a shame. I think it is quite incomprehensible that the Left is going to put us in this situation, and that has the suspicion that there is something to hide. I would like to say openly that I do not know if there is anything hidden. There are some of these issues to which I do not think there are simple answers. I believe that when you embark on a war or a conflict, including the one I myself supported in Afghanistan, you will be brought into situations that are extremely difficult to deal with. I am not out to point fingers, but I am out to say that every time Denmark enters a war, we learn from it. Then we do so that the people who are sent out, we respect so much that we at least make sure that we get even better next time we go out. And I actually thought we could agree on that in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113114126	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then it is the rapporteur for the SF, Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113114143	The closure of the Iraq Commission is a scandal. It is scandalous, to put it bluntly, and an expression of a government that is not willing to learn from the very painful experience that we have had with the Iraq war. The Iraq war is one of the most controversial things that has happened in the Western world, in fact for many, many years, for many reasons: because it was initiated on an illegal basis, because it had major consequences for the countries that participated in the war, other than Denmark, because it had consequences for Iraq itself, because it had consequences for the whole situation in the Middle East. What we see today with the Islamic State and the chaos created in Syria and Iraq is a direct consequence of the fatal decision to enter Iraq in 2003. Such a controversial decision will, of course, continue to be the subject of discussion. It has been here in Denmark. That is absolutely correct, as has been said, but the more so in some of the other countries that were also involved. In Britain a very, very thorough Commission work has been going on because the British politicians and the British people take this seriously. It is taken seriously that the 2003 decision so much led to a road with very, very great consequences. That is why we are some who have always believed that it was also necessary for us to have the same thorough investigation here in Denmark, and we set up the Commission, which started after very great difficulties, unfortunately. I don't know what the background was for that. It is also scandalous in the scandal that it took so long to actually get the job started, but at last, as the President of the Commission said, we were about to reap the fruits of some of the things we were looking into. Then it was all shut down, and it ends in nothing. That is where the scandal also lies, that is, at the moment when you could actually get some conclusions on it, it is just being completely shut down. That is clear enough, and the Minister for Justice must nevertheless understand that when you look at it from the government's point of view, then we are some who get the approach that it might be that there are some things you want to hide. There are some politicians you want to cover up. There is an Anders Fogh Rasmussen who may have some problems, I don't know, but if there is a basis for him to have problems, then it has to come to light. Isn't it? Is that not what is being done in a democratic society? But that is what the Minister of Justice is arguing against. Under no circumstances will he bring anything forward in the light of this in this Commission study. There'll be leaks here and leaks there. It is excellent that we have a good press, as was also said by the Minister for Justice. But listen to me: is it not better for all parties to have a thorough work done on this, as a Commission study does, of course, that we really get this worked out so that we can learn from it afterwards, rather than what is going on now? Because I can guarantee that there will continue to be new questions on these issues, because it is interesting because it was controversial, it was important and it is important to clarify what lessons we can draw from it. So we can only hope that there are some who become wiser in the government and among the bourgeois parties. If that happens, I shall not be able to say, but at least there is reason for them to think twice about how we as a nation will be able to learn more from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113114644	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113114650	I think it's very exciting to ask a few questions to Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, who was one of those who was at the time in 2003 as well as one of the few in this Chamber and who was then deeply involved in the discussion. A question I have long wondered about as outsiders in relation to the debate here in the Danish Parliament has been this with weapons of mass destruction, where I have often heard the left in a very reproachful tone, including Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, accuses the government of being part of the decision-making process at the time. I think it really doesn't matter, it's more the fact that we all know that it was part of the public debate at the time before the war, but then it's just that I've been wondering for a long time and I'd like to ask this question about the left and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen himself doubted that Iraq had these weapons of mass destruction, for that was the impression that everyone was left with. And was there anyone on the left who said at the time: we do not believe that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113114752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113114755	I am actually very pleased about that question, because it was also discussed a great deal at the time. No, we didn't know, but the point was that Hans Blix, head of the weapons inspectors, asked for more time to have it examined when he went to the UN Security Council. He was denied it. He was refused more time to investigate whether there were weapons of mass destruction. We didn't know. I didn't dare stand here and say it wasn't there, because it could be. And the same with Hans Blix. But that is precisely why we asked for time to have it examined in more detail. The Americans did not want that, the British did not want it, and Denmark did not want it. And that's why you drove it through. There was a majority against the war in the Security Council if a vote had been taken. You didn't even dare take that. You didn't even dare to take a vote in the Security Council on that. They started the war completely bypassing it. And that's why it was deeply illegal what you did.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113114858	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113114902	I'm asking you out of all my heart. I find it interesting to hear the answer, because it was very difficult to believe anything other than that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, and that at least he had had them and had used them in the past against his own people, had killed thousands of Kurds, as far as I remember, with poison gas and thus quite openly possessed such weapons. And when he completely refused to cooperate with UN weapons inspectors it wasn't just that he got a single question or two, but it was for months that he refused to cooperate with them... it's just that I'm asking if Mr. Holger K. Nielsen really doubted at the time that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113114941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113114944	No, no, but as I said, I didn't know, but that's what UN weapons inspectors were supposed to be investigating. About the lack of cooperation: It was there that I thought the Danish explanatory statement was absurd, and that is why it was not used elsewhere. Tony Blair tried to use that reason, but he couldn't do it. I think Bush tried it, too. It is absolutely absurd that we can start a war on the basis that a country will not comply with a UN resolution. It is therefore very unusual that this should be done without a new resolution. That is what the debate was about: could one go to war without a new resolution because one had not complied with an old resolution? It is therefore far-fetched if it is in accordance with international law. So it is not, and that is why Denmark used a legal construction that was invented by a British lawyer named Goldsmith and used by no one but Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115036	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115040	In this debate it has been said that this is about party politics and that it is a political issue and something like that. But can the rapporteur not confirm that when a commission of inquiry is set up, which is a very serious step to take, it is also because there may be a legal responsibility here, that there are some very serious matters, that is to say, misinformation of the Parliament, which is one of the things that has been very much discussed, both in relation to the basis of war, but also in relation to what was known about the torture of prisoners handed over to Iraqi and American forces? And can the rapporteur not confirm that the consequence of the resignation of this Commission is that we will probably never have a possible political responsibility? This means that the responsibility has been wiped out for the soldiers they have sent out and that the only ones who have actually been punished or have felt the consequences here are those who have been out telling the truth. It was Frank Grevil, it was Anders Kærgaard. Those who have tried to bring out the truth have paid the personal costs, while those politicians and ministers who may have misinformed the Folketing on absolutely crucial issues can continue as honourable Members in this Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115155	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115158	It's a description that I fully share. I even think it's very precise and also part of this. That is why I think it should give thought to those politicians in this Parliament who refuse to reopen the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115214	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115220	Can the rapporteur also confirm that Denmark is doing something that is not a precedent by abolishing this Commission work, which is quite historic? I do not think that a Commission study has ever been launched. It is, of course, a common parliamentary practice to respect the fact that such a Commission study has been set up. They're independent experts. This is not a political choice. We can't blame those lawyers and others for acting politically. They had to examine some very concrete factual facts. In other countries such studies have been carried out. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is a completely unusual step which we have not seen before here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115254	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115257	At least I think so. I know that the Minister thinks otherwise. But I think it is very unusual for a Commission study like this to be closed. I think it is extremely bad style and that it is untimely to do so. That's a police thing. It is, of course, politicising that, on the basis of a political objective of protecting some of our friends, a commission is being set up which is well under way and where the President himself says that we are close to being able to pick the fruits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115330	Sir. René Gade, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115333	It's really just a short question. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he can put himself in the position of my party, that is to say when, as a new party, you really want to engage in close cooperation in defence matters, and you look forward to seeing what the new defence settlement will contain, and that is why a little attention is being paid to it. The SF has been strong and has gone in and taken responsibility and must be in on what has once been agreed to be part of a defence settlement. But can the rapporteur understand that in the alternative we consider ourselves and ask whether we can go along with this and whether we can go in and take responsibility for these actions if we do not want to become wiser?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115413	Yeah, I can understand that. For it is clear that, when a new party enters this Parliament, there are a lot of old agreements and traditions that can be a little difficult to relate to. But there's nothing else to do... I think I'm just going to go in and look at it and ask, is this sensible or is it unreasonable? That is what politics is ultimately about. Yes, it is really very simple, even though it may be difficult. So it's all about assessing whether this makes sense or doesn't make sense? And I would very much urge the alternative to do that. We look forward very much to working with the alternative, including on defence policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115450	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115454	I don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115457	Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115459	Now, sir. Holger K. Nielsen has a man here at Tinge and therefore has extensive experience with commissions. That is why I would like to ask: what is the difference between a democratic inquiry in relation to the basis for going to war in Iraq and Afghanistan and then the commission which the government wants just built up, which is about examining the basis of the Tibet case and the mistakes that may have been made there? What is the difference in relation to commissions as a tool, since you do not see the need in one place, but you see the need elsewhere? And I should just like to point out that we are in favour of the study being carried out in both places.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115541	Well, I'm having a hard time seeing the difference in it, and I think that shows very well how politicizing the Justice Minister is in this. He's riding his own stick horses in this, and I think that's a deep concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115558	There is no wish for a further brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen, and then there is no further brief comment to the SF rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, representing the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115613	As I think it is well known from the public debate, we also refuse to re-establish the Commission. We also think it was a police act from the start to set up this Commission to bother and hang out the previous government, and we therefore consider it entirely legitimate that it should then be abolished again when there was a new political majority. We have the same attitude here as the government, that is to say that we also think that things have been sufficiently clarified. After all, the Commission had two main objectives. The only purpose was to problematize the fact that a decision was taken at all to enter Iraq, and that is where we do not think there is a need for investigative committees. After all, this is a political debate which takes place on the basis of a fully open and public debate and a fully open debate here in the Assembly, where you can find all the minutes and look back and see exactly what arguments were used at the time. So it is difficult to see what to do with a commission of inquiry. Because it was just a political choice that the left has disagreed with, but that does not mean that anyone has to stand before a judge because of it and it was a legal political and democratic decision that was made by the Folketing, completely according to the book. With regard to the prisoners of war, we believe that very serious work has been done on their handling. A manual on this is being prepared, and we have also seen the auditors go into cases where a reasonable suspicion has been raised. And there, too, we do not find there is a need for a commission to work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115801	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115805	I would like to ask the rapporteur if he is listening when Denmark's largest soldiers' association indicates that they think it is a bad idea to close down the Commission. Does it make an impression when the largest association that organizes soldiers makes such very bastant statements in relation to the closure of the commission, or do the Conservatives not care what the soldiers say in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115836	We are listening to all the speeches that are in the debate. Mrs Trine Bramsen had the same debate with Mrs Marie Krarup before, and I have to say that I agree with Mrs Krarup that not all veterans feel that way. And it might as well be thought that it is also part of the problematizing and demeaning of their efforts that the war in which they fought must be so seriously questioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115906	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115908	So I have to understand that the Conservatives do not listen to the biggest association that organises soldiers and veterans in Denmark when they choose not to listen to them, but to listen to those who say that it is quite fine to resign this commission, and that the argument that it will actually make a difference, also for some of the soldiers, veterans and their relatives to have it examined here, does not impress them?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115936	Now I think it is Mrs Trine Bramssen who is not listening. Because I just said that we are listening to all the speeches, including those from this veteran association. So, of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115948	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113115951	I would like to try to move the debate from the past to the future. We are in the Defence Committee and one thing is that we can disagree on what has happened in the past, i.e. whether it has been political teasing and a desire to hang out some former ministers. If we forget this for a while, we can say that what is being said today in the Folketing and from the seats of the various rapporteurs is hopefully not political teasing. It is hopefully because there is a desire to actually learn more about something that has happened in the past, so that we can make better decisions and sit before each other in the Committee on Defence and try to make some good decisions. Is it the rapporteur's view that what is happening now is also political teasing when we want to reopen the Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120038	I don't know if I'm going to use the term political teasing, and certainly not from Mr. René Gade's side. In this way, I have not understood it from the Alternative. But I now think that, when you listen to some of the rapporteurs from the SF and the Enhedslisten, it radiates out of them that they simply cannot stand Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and that in fact it has been the reason for trying to set up this commission, so to see if you could catch him in something and then spend a lot of public crowns on it. We just do not think that it is the taxpayer's job to pay for this kind of propaganda activity, which should help to cast such a great deal of suspicion on what Anders Fogh Rasmussen did.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120121	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120123	Of course, I can only speak on behalf of the Alternative, but it is my view that the atmosphere that has prevailed today has really been sincere in achieving some new results and some understandings. That is why my final question must also be whether we in the Committee on Defence and Defence may be able to find, with conservative support, a new study which may go further back, so that we are not out in believing that it is only a former government of a certain color that is being examined, but that it is simply a general understanding of defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120153	I will never pour any ideas down the board, not even as chairman of the committee. So we can have an open-minded discussion about it. However, I have to say, as Conservative Defence Rapporteur, that we think this is a wrong approach to it, that is to say that we should sit like this and try to suspect wars back in time, and then we can try to balance it out, since we have done everything we can to suspicious the war in Iraq. If we then also want to try to suspicious the Kosovo war, it may be that this is even. In general, I think that is a wrong approach to it. It is legitimate democratic decisions that have been made here in the Folketing from a fully open debate, and I think it should be respected that the Folketing is allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120233	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120235	Once again, the rapporteur has said that this has been dealt with in full transparency in the Folketing. But that is simply not true. For our problem was precisely that we could not have full transparency and that there were so many things we could not get answers to because it was confidential for the sake of one and the other and the third. That is why we set up a commission, which was, of course, a closed room in which confidential material could also be dealt with. So that's just a bad argument for quitting this commission. The point is that we will not get to the bottom, whether the Liberal Alliance will succeed in getting some of the unclassified papers presented. That's reality. I know that the rapporteur's party attaches great importance to the sense of justice, in other words justice and so on, but these cases concern people in Iraq, in Afghanistan, innocent people who have been ripped out of their bed, blindfolded and brought to American military bases where they were tortured, or handed over to Iraqi Shia militias where they were killed or tortured for months. Now, of course, there is a trial going on in another direction, but in terms of political responsibility, it is the case that if you knew that there was a risk, you have violated the Geneva Conventions and other international rules. Where is Conservatives' sense of justice when it comes to getting these things straightened out?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120402	Everyone knows, of course, that there is a risk that terrible things will happen when you start a war, including with regard to prisoners of war. I don't think anyone can be surprised. There it is just that we have the view that the Folketing has the right to decide that Danish troops should participate in war activities. That debate has therefore taken place on a number of points which have been made quite openly, and there has been a very, very thorough and also public debate which has been going on for years. It is just a question of whether one really respects that we have the right to decide that Denmark goes to war. In essence, Enhedslisten does not think so. At any rate, it is my impression that every time you go to war, it is deeply problematic and we just do not agree. We believe that this has been a perfectly legitimate democratic decision by the elected representatives of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120505	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120507	That is not what we are discussing now. By the way, Enhedslisten has supported military operations. We can do that if we think they're smart. It is true that we are very sceptical about whether war in most cases is the right solution to international conflicts. But that is not what we are discussing. It is said that when you go to war, terrible things happen. Yes, yes, but we have international conventions that we must observe when we go to war. There are also laws in war, and the question is whether those laws have been broken. Was it the case that the then government was aware and informed that when prisoners were extradited or Danish troops were extradited to the Americans in Afghanistan and later Shia militias in Iraq, they could risk torture and death? It's not something that's just like that. I'm sure Putin and other despots are happy with this announcement that at war, terrible things happen. We have to stick to the Geneva Conventions in Denmark. It is so important, even as a small state, that we do not in any way sell out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120609	We are sticking to the Geneva Conventions. There should be no doubt about that. In those cases where there are concrete, well-founded suspicions that they have been violated, the Defence Auditor's corps are investigating the cases. That's what they've gone into here, too. So we have some control bodies ready to investigate these cases. It is not the case that we can simply commit violations of the Geneva Convention and then nothing will happen. There is, and we take it seriously, and we have the Auditor's Office for that. It is a question of wanting a Commission to investigate matters where there are no grounds for suspicion, and that is where we think things are going too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120644	Mrs Eva Flyvholm for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120646	I would like to know whether the rapporteur also believes that if you as a party send a country to war with all that is involved in human consequences, then you also have a political responsibility to ensure that the rules are respected, that there is insight into what is going on and that someone, for example, is going on. do not hand over prisoners to torture etc. I think there is a great deal of evidence in this matter that everything has not been clarified. After the setting up of the Iraq Commission, we have seen how one story after another has come to light, for example. that Anders Fogh Rasmussen may have made promises in the past that Denmark was ready to go to war. This has nothing to do with my personal attitude towards Anders Fogh Rasmussen. It has something to do with whether the basis for the Iraq war was in order. That's why I'm interested in when you've known. There are also examples of the use of soldiers from the controversial security company Blackwater. Does the rapporteur really believe that everything was clarified when the Iraq Commission was laid down?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120803	Of course, we have a responsibility to treat prisoners of war properly and to comply with the Geneva Convention. Denmark must also take that responsibility seriously, and that is also why work is being done to get a manual now that gives some more clear instructions to the soldiers about what they may and what they may not do when they are deployed in international operations. We think this is really important, and it is, of course, the constructive, forward-looking approach to it. And, of course, those cases are being investigated where there is a reasonable suspicion that something wrong has happened. We have the Auditor's Department for that. But it's just a little unusual that when you have no grounds for suspecting anything other than Enhedslisten's gut feeling, without there being any evidence whatsoever that Anders Fogh Rasmussen is a bad guy, and that he may have committed a whole lot of wrong, then set up a commission to investigate it and spend a lot of money on it. It does not seem fair to me that because you have politicians you do not like, you set up a commission to see if you can find something, without really knowing what it is it should be looking for, or without any reasonable suspicion that something wrong should have happened. I think that is a wrong approach, and we do not use it with previous governments either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120910	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120911	Does the rapporteur of the Conservatives really believe that everything has been clarified in relation to what took place in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, and would the rapporteur say that if there are more stories that show that there were problems with Denmark's responsibility for prisoners and extradition to torture or the war base, then we will look at resuming this Commission work? I still believe that there are plenty of things that have not been clarified and I cannot understand how the rapporteur can be so sure about his case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113120941	Well, now no one has used the phrase that everything has been illuminated. We have said that it has been sufficiently clarified. There's a big difference. There is no full overview of all acts that have taken place during a war. We never will. So that's where we stand. We believe that there is sufficient control over what has happened. We think there are some bodies which investigate matters when there are reasonable suspicions, and that is good enough for us, just as it is good enough for us in all other cases. After all, we do not sit and set up commissions in all kinds of other areas, without there really being any reasonable suspicion that something wrong has been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121017	Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121018	Now the rapporteur says that he believes that the main reason why we would like to have clarified what the political and legal basis was when we went to war was acted on in accordance with the Geneva Conventions, etc.? There I can tell the rapporteur that this is not the reason at all. The reason for this is to examine what it was that in Denmark, as in virtually all other Western societies, participated actively in the Iraq War and in Afghanistan for that matter, was actually the political discussion. What arguments were put forward? Did those arguments hold true? What have we learned? Did we comply with the Geneva Conventions when we sent soldiers to war? After all, it is all about, as a society, having some major reflection on the serious decision of sending soldiers to war, killing other people and putting their own countrymen at risk. That's what it's all about. It might be interesting to hear the rapporteur: does the rapporteur really think that we have learned enough about the reasons behind that, too, in a forward-looking light?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121131	So I maintain my suspicion that what is behind this is an attempt to hang Anders Fogh Rasmussen. That is my clear impression, and I also hear it on the tone of the speeches that have been made in this debate. The Left cannot stand Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and the more one can cast a bad glance over his reign the better. It is the oldest trick in the book used as an opposition here: you want to set up a commission that can work for a long time, because it leaves some impression that there is probably something wrong without having anything to do with it. I think this is the wrong way to act with regard to previous governments and when Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says that we need to clarify the political arguments behind the war, so I would say that it has been clarified. Everybody knows that. We then had a huge, huge public debate about whether we should go to war or whether we should not go to war, and it has also continued to follow. There is hardly any subject or political decision that has been reflected more on in Denmark over the past many years than the decision to enter the Iraq war. So that is bullshit, sorry, that word must not be used by the President (Benny Engelbrecht): it is nonsense to say that we should have clarified the political arguments behind it. We know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121240	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121242	I must be honest and say that I do not really care about former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen. I have the impression that he is fine today, he has a good job and so on. That's not the reason for this. The reason for this is that we would like to know whether the considerations behind it were really true; whether the things that were being said in the Chamber during the debate in this Chamber were true? And did they keep track of the public debate, compared to what was published? After all, hundreds of thousands of people have died in Iraq. Thousands of people have died in Afghanistan. We also have an impression of that, at least many people point to the fact that the Pandora's box opened up in 2003 is also what has led to the serious unrest throughout the Middle East with civil war in Syria, etc. And all societies with respect for themselves who participated actively in the United States, Britain, etc. It's to use the rapporteur's own expression... some nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121343	It was good that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen didn't use my second term. But there is no explanation of what political arguments we have yet to come to light. For it was a completely open debate, which for months took place very, very intensely in all the Danish media followed by an entirely open debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber, which was the reason why they chose to go to war in Iraq at the time. After all, it is open to everyone, and everyone knows that the things that were said at the time that he did not cooperate with the UN were right. And everyone also knows that there were some discussions about weapons of mass destruction where the whole world believed some wrong things. But we know that. There's nothing new about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121431	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121453	Thank you. After all, Denmark's participation in the Iraq War and in the Afghanistan War has had major consequences. Hundreds of thousands of civilian Iraqis and Afghans have been killed and wounded, Danish soldiers have been killed and wounded, Iraq and Afghanistan are still lost in a violent chaos that makes it impossible for the people to have a normal everyday life, and there is very, very far to the democracy, the peace and stability that was then talked about. At home it is also the case that soldiers and relatives are still living away with the consequences of the war. After the resignation of the Iraq Commission, it was clear that there were several relatives, soldiers and veterans who came forward and asked for the Commission to continue. Right now there is a trial in the Østre Landsret with one of the Iraqis who was probably extradited by Danish soldiers and subsequently tortured in Iraqi prisons. These wars have affected infinitely many people's lives, and that is precisely why it is so important to investigate what happened. I am almost shocked to hear some of the things that have been said from up here today, for example. The argument that it is just political teasing and that there is nothing legal about it. Of course, it is a legal question whether Denmark has run from its international obligations to ensure that prisoners are not subjected to torture or that they are extradited to the death penalty. Of course, it is also a legal responsibility if there are ministers who have lied to the Folketing or have concealed some of what has happened. There are a large number of legal issues in this which we must, of course, get to the bottom of. I have to say that I think it was disrespectful and irresponsible to put an end to the Iraq Commission. It is a very, very serious matter to go to war, and if the politicians who sent Denmark to war will not accept responsibility for how things develop, where are we? It bears witness to an arrogance that goes so far as to appear in the Left to be willing to hide the truth in order to protect one's own, even though it means that all the people who have experienced the war on their own body will not get an explanation, and even if that means that as a country we will not be able to learn from the mistakes and do better in the future. One can get the feeling that the Left had an interest in shutting down the commission, among other things. Because they had responsible ministers through much of the war process, but that the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives have supported the Left in this, I simply find it incomprehensible. After all, it is parties that pride themselves on wanting openness and standing behind the Danish soldiers, but at the same time are not willing to take political responsibility. Frankly, that is a contradiction, I think there must be some difficulty in explaining. Today, after all, we have had the opportunity to discuss this very important matter in the Folketing, but it is not good enough at all. Therefore, I would say to the Left, Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance that if you think that we can get silence on this by closing the commission, you have to believe again. This is a question too important to be pushed into oblivion. There are many of us who want the truth about Denmark's wars to come out, and it will come out, but I think it would have been more dignified and democratic and proper if the parties that sent Denmark to war in Iraq and Afghanistan would also stand up to their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121833	No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121855	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Lea Wermelin of the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113121915	Thank you. A strong public health sector and welfare are important to us in the Social Democracy. That is why I have also looked forward to today's discussion of the draft law, which we ourselves helped to table back in March of this year. I have that because alcohol has very major consequences for those who have an abuse, but also for their families and, above all, for the children who are close to life. We Social Democrats have a great desire to ensure a good offer for anyone who would like to get out of their alcohol abuse, which is why last year it was also a good deal that was made widely in the pool of rates on improving the quality of alcohol treatment for 2015-2018. The 2014 evaluation of alcohol treatment sites showed that there is room for improving quality, and we in the Socialist Group believe that it is common sense to have an authorisation and supervision system for both public and private treatment facilities. It is therefore a good idea to place quality oversight in the existing social oversight system, which uses the same seven criteria when approving treatment centres for abuse. In this way, we can ensure the necessary quality boost, just as with operational supervision we can ensure that we maintain and develop the quality of the offers on an ongoing basis. The draft law here gives both greater security for those who have to accept the aid, so that it is help of a high quality, and also greater certainty that we are spending our common money in the best way. So the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113122051	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113122105	Thank you. It is a proposal that we have dealt with in the past, but unfortunately we did not have the third reading before the elections. It's a case we've been working on for a long time. At one point, we had an evaluation of the treatment sites and it showed that there was a need to tighten up and that proper supervision was needed so that we could ensure the quality of treatment facilities. The proposal was implemented by the pool parties through the provision of funds to improve the quality of alcohol treatment, and this involves the establishment of an authorisation and supervision system for alcohol treatment centres. In the future, the existing five social services will have to approve and supervise the alcohol treatment facilities providing the treatment for public funds. The municipalities took over responsibility for the alcohol treatment in Denmark in connection with the Health Act. It entered into force on 1 January 2007 and the municipalities are responsible for ensuring that alcohol-dependent people can receive the treatment they need in order to get out of an abuse. Today, unfortunately, there are far too many alcohol addicts, and this has many personal and financial consequences for the individual's family. According to the Danish Health Service, there are 200,000 addicts, and many believe that it may be the man on the street who drinks too much. But the reality is that many of those seeking treatment are quite ordinary Danes with family and jobs. We also know that there are very many consequences in addition to the addiction of the alcohol-dependent. There is also the family to consider. Therefore, it is important to be able to provide treatment, to meet a certain standard, and to ensure a high quality and to ensure that there are individual methods. Today we have outpatient day and day offers, and many work very well. Unfortunately, however, it has also become apparent that there are some places where we have not had the necessary powers and therefore have not been able to help the citizens who had been referred. That was why we agreed in the pool of rates to set aside these funds for the area so that we could ensure quality. It will be the five social inspections which will have to take care of the places in question to see if the quality is there. At the same time, we are pleased that the obligation set out in the text has been changed to a commitment to be made, as the Left also said at first reading before the elections. That is why we can vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113122343	No brief comments have been asked, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113122359	Thank you. Today, we are first examining the draft law amending the Health Act and the Social Protection Act. The bill has previously been discussed in the Folketing under the name of L 179, but was not finalised because of the elections in June. The draft law is the execution of the 2015-2018 Rate Pool Agreement. In June 2014, the Danish Health Authority published an evaluation of the guidelines for the local authorisation of alcohol treatment sites, an evaluation which showed that the quality of some of the alcohol treatment sites available on the offer portal could be questioned, and the evaluation also pointed to how focusing on both the authorisation and supervision of alcohol treatment sites could increase the quality of alcohol treatment sites. The bill here is intended to ensure a more uniform quality of the alcohol treatment services by including the alcohol area in the Social Protection Act. In advance, the five social inspectorates must both approve and supervise the alcohol treatment sites with which a given municipal council wishes to conclude an agreement. And for us in the Left, quality and supervision are very key elements. Today, on the basis of a specific assessment, the municipal council approves alcohol treatment sites located in the municipality. In advance, both approval and supervision will be carried out on the basis of established guidelines, which include: quality is taken into account, and the Social Inspectorate must pay at least one annual visit to the treatment centre. When I put the emphasis on quality here, it is because we in the Left believe that it is essential that each citizen is treated on the basis of the best and most up-to-date knowledge in the field of both methods and interventions. It is estimated that about 200,000 Danes have harmful alcohol consumption and that about 160,000 are dependent on alcohol. The aim is that a binding set of criteria should ensure a quality increase in both private and municipal alcohol treatment sites and initiate a significant positive effect on the quality of alcohol treatment. Finally, let me make it very clear that citizens will continue to have free choice among private and municipal approved treatment centres. Against this background, we in the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113122633	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113122645	Thank you. The Enhedslisten can also support the bill. We would nevertheless like to make a few comments on this. The aim of the draft law is to ensure more systematic supervision of alcohol treatment. In future, supervision must be the responsibility of the five social services. This establishes, for the first time, a firm quality monitoring of the publicly funded alcohol treatment and, I hope, also a general priority in the area of alcohol treatment. It is well known that the quality of municipal alcohol treatment varies greatly from municipality to municipality, and in practice this means that alcohol abusers have received far too unequal treatment depending on where they live. Remediation is not done with improved supervision alone, but it is certainly a step on the way. The Enhedslisten also notes that it is positive that there is a focus on the need for supervision to be able to assess both social-educational, health and economic aspects of the treatment and thus also to ensure that citizens are treated respectfully and involved in their own course of treatment. It is a strength in the way we have organised social oversight, namely that it is a holistic supervision. When it comes to the debate that has also been about sensitive personal information in the context of the changed supervision, we in the Enhedslist welcome the fact that it now appears more precisely from the comments that only health professionals directly related to the offer should be included in the legal amendment, as the Medical Association has pointed out in their hearing response. The Enhedslisten also shares the view of the homeless organisation SAND that proper supervision requires the involvement of citizens using the treatment and the former minister's response that it is also compulsory under the Social Protection Act to do so already. We are very, very pleased about that and it is important to point that out. The unitary list can vote in favour of the proposal, which is one of a number of initiatives by the government in the area of alcohol, but we have to deeply regret the way in which it is financed. We do not think it is right at all for the vulnerable groups, namely those on transfer incomes, to finance such initiatives. In this case, it is particularly grotesque because the issue of the prevention of alcohol abuse and alcohol abuse is a social responsibility. It is also diseases that affect many, many others than just a group of vulnerable citizens. It is therefore quite unreasonable that this group should be allowed to finance it through less regulation of transfer income. This should not prevent us from supporting the draft law, but we do not think it can be said often enough that it is simply too poor to dive into this pool of rates over and over again to finance something that should be properly financed by all taxpayers through the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113122947	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123009	The Liberal Alliance can also support the proposal, which aims to increase the quality of municipal offers of free alcohol treatment. The bill translates the decision of the pool parties for 2015-2018 to allocate funds to increase the quality of the alcohol treatment. Municipalities must offer free alcohol treatment to citizens. All treatment sites must be approved and listed on the Offer Portal. It has so far been the responsibility of each municipality to approve the treatment centres in their own municipality, but with this bill it will in future be the Social Inspectorate which will have to approve the alcohol treatment centres and also those which will have to exercise operational supervision. In this way, a more uniform approval process will be achieved, while at the same time better opportunities will be created to provide the necessary competences. This will provide better conditions for following the Danish Health Authority's guidelines and guidelines, thereby creating better and more uniform quality in alcohol treatment. The Liberal Alliance is very pleased that citizens are free to choose between the approved treatment centres, private as municipal, who will be present. It is clear from the proposal that information on citizens' purely private matters must be disclosed without consent, if deemed necessary, in order for the social inspectorate to be able to carry out supervisory and control tasks. And even if reference is made to Section 20 of the Social Protection Act and that it will be subject to the Data Processing Rules of the Personal Data Act in Sections 5 to 8, I do not think it is directly clear according to which criteria this information should be passed on. In other words, who should assess and how should it be assessed when it is deemed necessary to disclose sensitive personal information without consent? However, I have no doubt that things are in order and that I will have that confirmed in the committee's work. As I have said, we support the proposal because we believe that it can give better and more uniform treatment to those who need it and, at the same time, it can help the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123246	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123255	Thank you. This bill aims to increase the quality of the alcohol treatment, by having the Social Inspectorate approve, and by having annual supervision of both private and public treatment facilities. In the alternative, we appreciate that the draft law will ensure an increase in the professional quality of alcohol treatment and a uniformity of supervision in terms of the social task of treatment and operating conditions. However, we share the concern expressed by the Social Working Party of the Blue Cross and the KFUM in the consultations that the conditional free choice system, in which a private operator must have an agreement with at least one municipality, can we believe that as long as the five social services carry out qualitatively sound supervision as is the intention of the law, it should be able to ensure a sensible use of public funds. At the same time, we believe that diversity and development of offers are essential for a treatment area in which many different citizens, for many different reasons, have ended up in alcohol abuse. So in the alternative, we look forward to the work of the committee and are positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123409	No one has asked for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123418	Thank you. If you are addicted to alcohol, you can get help. It is people who are in a difficult situation and help is absolutely crucial. That's why it's important that the help you get is good. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples where questions can be asked as to whether the treatment has been good enough, either because the employees did not have sufficient professional skills or because the treatment methods did not work. We in the Radical Left would like to correct that. The problem is due to the fact that the municipalities today have guidance from the Danish Health Authority to approve the alcohol treatment sites, but no guidelines for supervising the sites. This was one of the things that an evaluation last year pointed out had to be changed in order to strengthen the quality of alcohol treatment, and it led us, together in this Parliament, to set aside money on last year's rate pool to improve quality by changing the approval and supervision of alcohol treatment centres by including in the Social Insurance Act, after which operational supervision of the alcohol treatment centres will be carried out in the five social services which approve. We support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123535	No one has asked for brief comments, so thank you to Lotte Rod. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123545	Thank you. I can state on behalf of the SF that we also support the proposal for a law amending the Health Act and the Social Protection Act, which aims to increase the quality of alcohol treatment. In the SF, we are pleased that we managed to allocate funds to improve the treatment of citizens with alcohol problems. At the same time, we are in favour of the establishment of a systematic and compulsory authorisation and supervision system for those treatment centres which provide alcohol treatment for public funds. It is both in order to ensure quality, but also in order to ensure consistency in the supervision of alcohol treatment by the municipalities, which must be carried out by the Social Inspectorate. So SF can join the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123633	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123641	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party we supported this proposal when it was discussed for the first time in this Chamber, and of course we intend to do so again now that it has been retabled. We are pleased with the rate pool agreement that was made in 2015 where it was agreed to prioritize funds for this area to increase the quality of the alcohol treatment taking place both at the private and public treatment centres. The draft law here establishes a system for approving and supervising treatment centres. The scheme will be set up under the five social inspections, which have also been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, and will apply to all the places where treatment is being provided and where public funds are being provided. The essence is to standardise and ensure systematic supervision and to ensure that we are given the necessary high quality of treatment for which we have a responsibility. So there is a special focus on professionalism, the economy and the organisation at treatment sites. The treatment of people with a drinking problem is an important task and, fortunately, it is successfully resolved in many places today, both by private and public actors. Helping people out of abuse is a noble task, but we must, of course, ensure that there is the right quality and that we can be confident that there are high standards. That is why it is important to keep track of professionalism, and this is something we will ensure by means of this legislative proposal. So, from the conservative side, we look forward to further consideration and support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123809	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments, and then we go to the Minister for Health and the elderly. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113123826	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank you for the debate and for the comments made by the rapporteurs on the draft law, which is of course intended to improve and ensure the professional quality of alcohol treatment establishments which treat citizens with alcohol problems. As several of the rapporteurs have said, this is not a new proposal that we are debating today; we managed to deal with it under the previous government, where we reached the second reading, and it is a follow-up to the rate pool agreement that was concluded between all parties except the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. I myself have had the opportunity to spend some time on this bill in my time in opposition, and we also managed to table an amendment to it before the parliamentary elections, which the Left even passed. Now I welcome the fact that we have put forward this overall proposal with the changes that were made by the Left when we were in opposition, so that we can move forward in our efforts to ensure an increase in the quality of alcohol treatment. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur asked about this basic question as to why a new paragraph should be introduced. 3 about the disclosure of information by healthcare professionals in Section 12 of the Social Protection Act. Purpose of the new paragraph 3 is to ensure that all employees of all offers covered by the Social Protection Act are required to disclose information necessary for the performance of operational supervision by the Social Protection Agency. Health professionals carrying out health care are subject to quite specific disclosure rules in the Health Act, while other personnel groups are subject to the treatment rules in the Personal Data Act. It is therefore considered necessary to make a new paragraph. 3 which imposes an obligation for health professionals to disclose information at the request of the Social Inspectorate where necessary for the performance of operational supervision by the Social Inspectorate. I also fully agree with the rapporteur that the legal certainty of citizens is extremely important, and that is why it is also stated in the comments on the legislative proposal that only necessary information must be provided. Information which is not necessary for the performance of operational supervision by supervision may therefore not be obtained or disclosed and, at the same time, it will not be necessary to disclose information at a level attributable to persons. Further questions on this will obviously have to be answered in relation to the further reading of the committee. The alternative rapporteur then made some comments about whether it restricts citizens' freedom of choice. I do not think so, but we do ensure that the quality of the offers we make to citizens with alcohol problems, regardless of whether we are talking about a public or private supplier, is made in the future, and thus the demand for an agreement in no way alters the rules of free choice. The only consequence of the draft law for the rules of free choice is that in future all treatment centres, whether public or private, which provide treatment for public funds, will have to be approved by the Social Protection Agency in order to ensure the quality of each treatment facility's offer. I am, of course, making myself available in relation to the further work of the committee which can now be set in motion, hoping that we can finalise the legislative proposal so that the requirements for approval and supervision can enter into force by the end of the year. In general, I would like to thank you for the positive reception of the bill from all the parties of the Folketing here at first reading. I look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124227	One person has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124231	Thank you. It was not really because I asked why the addition had come. It's obvious. It was more, as the Minister himself said, a clarification of when it is considered necessary to disclose sensitive personal data without consent. I am glad to hear that we are addressing the cooperation committee a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124257	Thank you. We will, of course, follow up this in the further work of the committee if the members of the committee ask questions about this. I was merely trying, in my reply, to clarify what I sensed was the rapporteur's concern about precisely ensuring the legal certainty of citizens in this area. We share that part entirely from the government's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124317	Mrs May-Britt Kattrup does not want another comment. Mrs Josephine Fock of the Alternative has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124323	Thank you, Minister. What I expressed concern about in my rapporteur's speech was that, as I understand at least the law and the comments on the law, it is the case that of newly-started alcohol treatment centres, which are not part of the municipal services at the time of entry into force of the law, the Social Protection Agency will in future not have to start a process of approval until the private offer in question can show a valid agreement with at least one municipality. We're just thinking that it's important to look at those private treatments. There may of course be some who are really qualified and so on, and we take it into the committee where we can discuss it further, but it is important for us that all good offers can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124413	I can assure Mrs Josephine Fock that all good offers can be considered. What we are doing now is making demands on the quality of those offers, whether public or private. And that means that you, as a treatment institution and private, will be able to get an agreement with a municipality if you can meet the quality requirements that are being set.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124433	Does the rapporteur wish to make another brief comment? No. Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124455	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124514	Thank you for the floor, President. As everyone in this Chamber is aware, the proposed amendments to the Social Pensions Act and the Work Damage Insurance Act concern adjustments to the later retirement age which the Folketing has changed over several rounds. The bill implements the 2006 welfare agreement, whereby it was agreed that in 2015 the retirement age should be increased to 68 years for persons born after 31 December 1962. At the same time, the welfare agreement also provides for future regulations to take place every five years. Last but not least, the law on occupational injury insurance is amended so that no employer can escape responsibility and terminate insurance with reference to the increased retirement age. We think that is quite positive. Social democracy was part of the welfare agreement in 2006, and we are, of course, still on the goal. The idea at the time was that we should adapt slowly and gently, as it was called, the number of years we were active in the labour market with the increase in life expectancy. The main idea at the time was that from 2025 age limits should rise as the lifetime of a 60-year-old. The average number of years spent on early retirement and retirement will be close to 191⁄2 years in the longer term, it was then said. The arguments as to why the Danes as a whole should be longer in the labour market are quite real and still hold true. It is about demography, it is about the total cost of the welfare society, and it is also about the fact that, in the end, we believe that as more people live longer, they also want to contribute for longer. As the then Minister of Finance, Thor Pedersen, it is not so often that I have the opportunity to quote him, but still several times expressed, so it will be the case that when Danes long into the future have a lifetime of 1,000 years, yes, then it will be the case that you can withdraw from the labour market when you are 98011⁄2 years old. So far, so good. For the conditions for the 2006 welfare agreement have also been changed, and the major challenges of a later withdrawal have not been resolved and have in many ways become worse. Part of the premise behind the welfare agreement at the time was that it was still possible to go on early retirement so that those who had been longest on the labour market in the most physically and mentally worn out jobs could retire while they could both walk and stand. However, with the 2011 withdrawal reform agreed by the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives and the Radicals, the post-earning salary will be phased out and the welfare agreement will be brought forward. This means that the slow and gentle adaptation to the fact that we live longer is actually not so gentle again. In other words, nothing has been found that resembles a solution for the hairdresser who has stood up and cut hair since she was 15 years old, for the suitcase dragon out in Kastrup, who has crawled around in hold and dragged on all the junk we drag home from the East since he was 17 years old, or for the SOSU helper who every day uses body and mind to give our grandparents some good last years. There are no solutions for these, and it is quite clear that many of them cannot remain on the labour market until they are 68 years old. In fact, it is the very opposite of finding solutions for those who have started at the earliest in the labour market and have the most laborious jobs. The government and the Danish People's Party have already abolished the think tank for a good senior working life, which the then government created. The government downgrades using the Fund for Prevention and Sustainability, and the government and the Danish People's Party propose to save 20%. At the Labour Inspectorate, which, after all, is moving out and ensuring that occupational injuries and occupational diseases are prevented. Already in 2011, we in the Social Democratic Party warned that the new senior early retirement pension was neither new nor would give more worn-out workers the right to retire earlier. The most recent figures show that we were right. It is not possible to raise the retirement age, phase out the post-retirement wage and, at the same time, reduce the ambitions for better working conditions and a decent senior working life. It simply does not add up. The parties behind the withdrawal reform only did half the work. It was agreed that the Danes should be longer in the labour market without at the same time ensuring that this is actually possible. It's kind of like lowering taxes without pointing to funding. The difference is that, in this case, the funding should not be found in crowns and ears, but in working hours at the end of a long and hard working life. This problem will not be reduced in the years to come. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill because of the fact that, of course, we are behind the welfare agreement we signed in 2006, but we will actively work for solutions to be found, we can be aware of those who have worn their bodies and minds to pieces in their work; for those who have done their duty throughout their working lives before they have demanded their right. And we will repeatedly demand from this government that much more ambitious investment be made in ensuring a good working environment and a good working life for the oldest in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124950	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113124955	Thank you, and thank the rapporteur for a very good speech in many ways, in which I agree with many considerations. I agree that the government's policy in this area is not coherent, but I cannot quite reconcile the rapporteur's arguments either, because the rapporteur says that the conditions for the 2006 welfare agreement are gone, that we did something different and rather tougher when we did this retirement reform in 2011, but why do the Socialists vote in favour of this bill, which is, after all, derived from the withdrawal reform, which meant that we should now move forward the time when we are increasing the retirement age by five years? I can't really get that to hang out. In fact, the Socialists should feel completely freed from the withdrawal reform, and the welfare agreement for that matter too, and vote against this bill, which affects thousands of people, whom we two at least agree should not be affected, namely all those who cannot stand to work until they can go at a very distant retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125059	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, it is true that we are still looking at this, and there are all kinds of good reasons why we have to work longer when it is that we also live longer. The great task that comes to an end with this is that we are completely behind the welfare agreement that was concluded in 2006 and that is to find arrangements and opportunities for those who have been most worn out to actually get a dignified withdrawal from the labour market, while at the same time giving real priority to the efforts to create a better working environment, so that fewer people get sick from going to work, fewer people are worn out by going to work, fewer people get permanent work injuries. That is where the political struggle and the political task lie in the future from here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125139	Sir. Finn Sørensen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125142	Thank you, but what I pointed out was that the draft law before us today is directly derived from the 2011 withdrawal reform, which the Socialists voted against with the rest of us, what we are happy about. So what the rapporteur says is not connected. You should vote against this bill. Or is it due to the fact that the withdrawal reform just came into the government base in 2011 and therefore feels obliged to do so? In the election campaign, the rapporteur made a very good proposal: that we should look at a model for early retirement for the groups we are talking about here. Why, then, is it not said that we will only vote for an increase in the retirement age when we have it in place, when we have ensured a good working environment, and when we have ensured a good retirement model for the many who cannot stand to work for so long? That's how you should turn it around.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125237	I am pleased that the rapporteur is reading the speeches that I am writing now and also written before the election campaign. Of course, I have to say here from the platform that the proposal, which in fact inspired the German model, which introduced a flexible pension scheme, is at least my own expense for the time being. I mean it, in fact, still away and try to do what I can to convince 90 people in this Chamber and my party colleagues of the same thing. The reason why we are voting in favour of this bill today is that we basically support the idea that you have to work longer when you live longer. The great task that now lies is to ensure a working environment that we can be familiar with, and also to ensure that we set up arrangements. It may be schemes inspired by Germany, it may be other schemes in which the people who have been most worn out of going to work can also withdraw in a proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125327	There is another one who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125332	Thank you. After all, you can sit and get a little confused about whether the Socialists are now standing by the welfare agreement or not standing by the welfare agreement of 2006. After all, this bill is about raising the retirement age by means of the fact that we all live longer; it is, in fact, positive. And if we didn't do it, if we didn't do it, there were 60 billion less for everything we'd like to do in terms of health care, nursing homes, etc. etc. I just need to understand, because there are many signals being sent from the platform at the moment. One is that there are legislative proposals, and I understand this, but I can be in doubt, because everything else that is said from the platform is about criticising it, and it is also outlined that the Socialist rapporteur would like to see a differentiated retirement age. I just have to ask: is it social democratic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125429	First of all, I do not understand why the rapporteur is in doubt about what is actually being said here from the platform. What is being said is that the Social Democracy is completely at the goal of the welfare agreement signed in 2006. What is being said is that we are voting in favour of this bill today. What is also being said is that we are problematizing something and, on the other hand, I would like to hear from the rapporteur about this, in relation to whether or not he also thinks there are problems for people in the labour market who have started early, being worn out in their jobs, and whether there are viable solutions for them to work until they are 68. Does the rapporteur think that, as it is today, there are completely exhausted solutions for these people? The last thing that will then be asked is that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Finn Sørensen asks for a speech which I have written before the election campaign and what that speech is all about and so on, and I answer that politely. I stand at the goal of social democracy's policy and the social democracy is at the goal of the welfare agreement. Social democracy is in favour of this today, but we are interested in finding sustainable solutions for a better working environment and for a withdrawal for the people who are most worn out in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125530	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125533	But when the Socialists saw this for a short period of time, I do not know what initiatives the Socialists took, for example. to raise awareness of the senior pension scheme. As I know, no independent initiatives have been taken by various Social Democratic Employment Ministers, but the initiative was to carry out an early retirement and flexible job reform, and I very much agreed with that, but that was the initiative that was taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125611	Well, the questioner is quite wrong because a large number of initiatives were carried out which, unfortunately, are virtually surgically cut off and downgraded by the rapporteur's own party in government. For example, a reduction was made. a senior think tank to look at how to create a proper link between being older and having a good working life. Efforts to improve the working environment have been prioritised by the rapporteur's own party in the government to cut 20%. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. So a lot of initiatives have been taken, but initiatives, as I note, unfortunately, with surgical precision, are being downgraded by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125653	There is, in fact, an extra person who has submitted himself with a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125659	Is it to be understood by the rapporteur, after this flaming speech, that what was the concrete initiatives of the Social Democratic Party was a working group on the working environment for the elderly? That it was about these things that were in the Finance Act on the Labour Inspectorate that were going to expire? Under a social democratic government, too, the sums were to fall. Then we will have this flaming talk about how terrible this is, how terrible it is that we are doing these reforms and what terrible consequences they have, reforms that we ourselves have been behind, and about the initiatives that the Social Democrats themselves had, namely a working group. Now we are complaining about some cuts in the area of the Factory Inspectorate, where the work has been completely reorganised. It's thin, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125752	It is not surprising to me that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur thinks that what we in the Socialist Group think is thin. I do not necessarily need to comment on that. But yes, I am glad that in the then government we focused on trying to create solutions in order to have a proper senior working life. I am glad that, in this way, priority has also been given both to using funds from the Prevention and Maintaining Fund and that priority has been given to having a labour inspectorate which was actually able to move out and to ensuring that people were prevented from becoming ill and being worn out and injured when they go to work. I'm sorry you're cutting it down right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125829	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125831	If it was so terrible that the Labour Inspectorate was being cut back, why did the previous government not make the appropriations which were due to expire this year permanent? Why didn't they do that? Why wasn't even more money spent? The rapporteur should listen to his own speech, where he talks about how awful a working environment for the elderly we obviously have, even if we live longer, people are satisfied with their work, employment rushes out there for the +55-year-olds. Despite this reality, it is only incredibly thin to hear a Social Democratic rapporteur stand and say that what they did was to set up a working group and that they would then obviously have allowed some appropriations, which they themselves said should expire, to continue. We can never know if that would actually have been the case, but it is extremely thin.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113125920	Well, that is also a counter-productive storywriting that the questioner is discussing. Because neither of us can know whether a Social Democratic Finance Minister this year had set out to give priority to the work of the Labour Inspectorate in the coming years. None of us know that. I can tell you what the position of the Social Democrats is on these things, and it is that that should be done. The second is, of course, that I am just as happy as the questioner that employment is going well for people who are +50, but what is at the same time, and we must not forget, is that there are people in the labour market who have started at an early age and who are being worn out and for whom there has to be sustainable solutions. This applies to a better working environment, and this also applies to opportunities for a more dignified withdrawal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130001	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Bent Bøgsted for Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130011	Thank you for that, President. After all, this bill is a follow-up to the 2006 welfare reform, when it was agreed that the retirement age should be increased as life expectancy continues to grow. In other words, depending on how much it increases, it is decided whether the retirement age should be increased. Now it has been this year that we had to decide whether to raise the retirement age by 1 year from 67 to 68 years. The next time it has to be regulated, it will not be possible to set it up, because it depends on whether life expectancy has increased. Otherwise, we should not set it up further. But of course the Danish People's Party stands by the welfare reform and the agreement that the retirement age should be increased. Having said that, we are fully aware that there are some groups that are having a difficult time and that cannot be so long in the labour market. That is also why, in the context of the withdrawal reform, we had a senior early retirement pension. I am sorry, then, that it does not work as it should, and that is a task that we must take on in order to make it work. The intention was that, if you could prove that you were worn out, you could get a quick clarification, within 3-6 months, of whether you could get an early retirement pension, five years before you went to a retirement pension, or what it looked like; of course, it does not just happen with an ordinary medical certificate. It must be so that you can prove that you are worn out. That's what was in the senior early retirement scheme. It was actually a good arrangement because it covered everyone, it was not just those who were in an unemployment fund, it covered everyone who had been on the labour market for 20-25 years and could therefore also have had so many discomforts after a life on the labour market that they could no longer cope with working. Unfortunately, we have to note that it has not been used very much. It may be due to several things. It may be that there is too little knowledge of the scheme, it may also be that the municipalities interpret the legislation incorrectly, but it has something to do with the early retirement and flexible job reform that was introduced, after which everyone had to go through a process of resource development. In this context, I have to say that it is probably the municipality that has said that it was no longer a senior early retirement pension, but a general process of resource development, with clarification as to whether it is a flexible job or an early retirement pension. The agreement was not part of the Danish People's Party. So one of the tasks of the minister is to explain to the municipalities that this senior early retirement pension must therefore be used and taken seriously. This is one of the tools we have to help those who are worn out in the labour market, and then it will not help to say: well, then we go on with something quite different. Because that agreement is still in force. The intention was that it was 1,790 a year • I think it was intended to have a senior early retirement pension, and that is not more than 100, 125 I think it is this year that has been awarded it so far, and that is not very many. Then it is said that it is because there are no more people applying for it, but perhaps it is because they do not know about it or because they are told in the municipalities that they cannot apply for it and that it is a normal early retirement or flexible job they are going through. So that's where we need to tighten up. We need to make it work. Having said that, I also think it is good that we can stay longer on the labour market. After all, we already have a pension scheme where you can choose to say that you are staying longer in the labour market, and a lot of people are now choosing to do so. And good for it! That is why we do not think there is any point in raising the retirement age, it is not until 2030 that this is the case, and of course there will also be major changes in the groups that retire at that time. Since people in my age group entered the labour market, there has been a development compared to those who began 15 years ago. There has been a very large development. But now we'll see what it's like then. I don't even know how and how; I'm retired by then. It's 2022 that I'm gonna retire, and then what happens by 2030, I can't predict. I can't predict the future. But I can say here and now that the senior early retirement pension must work, and that will be a task that we must have solved in the legislative work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130457	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130501	Thank you. The rapporteur is well aware of how the rapporteurs are retired: as a member of the Folketing, you can go on a retirement pension when you are 61, so that is a huge difference from the groups we are talking about here, who can only receive a pension when they are 68. So I did not understand that remark. What, moreover, does the rapporteur think about the discrimination that lies in it? I am pleased that the rapporteur is aware of the fact that some groups are suffering from an increase in retirement age, namely all those who cannot work long because they are worn out and for other reasons. It should not surprise anyone that the senior early retirement pension does not solve that problem. For it has been clear from the outset that there are exactly the same requirements to receive a senior early retirement pension as there is to receive a regular early retirement pension. And as the rapporteur himself notes, these demands have been tightened. So what are some concrete changes that the rapporteur wants to introduce into his early retirement pension, or does the rapporteur have some other answers to the groups we are talking about here that cannot stand on the labour market until they reach the age of 68?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130609	Now it's the case that sir... Finn Sørensen well knows that the Danish People's Party is in favour of following the normal retirement age. We have also voted in favour of this, and in my case it is 67 years. That's what's in it. I can't get a retirement pension until I'm 67. So compared to that in here in the Danish Parliament by Mr. Finn Sørensen well that Dansk Folkeparti says that you should follow the normal retirement age. Something else is so that there is no majority in favour of it. We have among other things. But in relation to the senior early retirement situation, Mr. Finn Sørensen that they are subject to the same rules, and that is precisely the problem. For the idea and the idea of it back then was that they should have a faster procedure. Within 3-6 months, they had to have a clear notification of whether they could get a senior early retirement pension or not. What is happening today is that you are dragged through a process of resources because of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs that the Danish People's Party is not part of, and which I know Enhedslisten is also not part of. It has watered it down, and it has made the processing time longer, and that was not the intention. That is what we need to resolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130716	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130718	Thank you. I am well aware that our two parties agree on how the retirement age for members of the Folketing should be. What surprised me was the remark that the rapporteur does not know about his pension conditions, because that is what is being done as a member of the Folketing. But it's a good thing we put it in place. I am also fully aware that we agreed to vote against this reform of early retirement and flexible work, and it has also further deteriorated the senior early retirement pension. I fully agree with that. What I was asking was what kind of specific changes the rapporteur would have made. This has, of course, been a problem from the start of meeting the same criteria as for a regular early retirement pension. What are these specific changes, and why are they not said: we will not vote in favour of an increase in the retirement age until this has been put in place so that we can give real help and real answers to the people who are affected by an increase in their retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130815	That is precisely the problem. For when the senior early retirement pension was introduced, there was nothing to do with testing even if you had to have flex jobs. It was a question of having a quick procedure if one could prove that one was worn out; then one should be able to obtain a senior early retirement pension within 3-6 months. This is what you have to go back to, and we will work for it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130838	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Hans Andersen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113130846	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today is, after all, a change to the law on social pensions and the law on occupational injury insurance, and, as I have said, it is about people born after 31 December 1962 having regulated the retirement age to 68 years in 2030. And then there is also the amendment of the revision clause, which is part of the draft law, and which helps to ensure that in future an increase in the retirement age will also take place by law, so that the next draft law on the regulation of the retirement age will be tabled by 2020. And it may be that we are having a similar debate. The regulation of the retirement age as a result of the evolution of life expectancy is part of the political agreement on welfare reform from 2006, which we have just turned short. After all, we live in a society where the composition of the population changes. The number of elderly people to be provided for is increasing and, at the same time, the number of people of working age is falling. There are therefore fewer people to finance the growing numbers outside working age, and this is a challenge that we are addressing with this bill. We also see today a development in the average lifetime of the Danes, which shows that we live longer. This also means that you can have more active years on the labour market, and we can use this to ensure that we can also maintain the welfare society that we all want in the future, and that is why we have a legislative proposal today, raising the retirement age by one year by 2030. After all, more people in employment are the consequence of that bill, and that also means, as I said, that we can finance the rising costs that we get for health care and for the care sector when the number of elderly people increases in Denmark. Another element that has not been mentioned so much is the proposal to change occupational injury insurance. This follows from the fact that when the retirement age is extended by one year, it must be ensured by law that the employer will continue to pay for occupational injury insurance until the citizen is entitled to a national pension. This bill, in isolation, contributes to strengthening public finances by around 60 billion. kr., and this is also absolutely essential for us to have sustainable public finances in the future. It also helps to ensure that there is a job supply that our companies can use, and it will also provide more citizens in the labour market, and it will be able to finance again the wishes we have set forward. So, overall, we in the Left welcome the fact that we are now here today and are helping to secure the welfare society in the future with this bill to change the future retirement age to 68 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131233	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131236	Thank you. Two brief questions: does the rapporteur recognise that there are large groups which cannot stand to work as long as an increased retirement age will result and that they have to leave the labour market long before time due to wearing out, stress, accidents at work, etc.? Does the rapporteur accept this and what response does the rapporteur have to those people? So I would like to hear from the rapporteur, who also refers to increased costs for employers: will the Left be prepared to meet the demands of the Danish Employers' Association that they be compensated for the increased cost of occupational injury insurance? That is what lies in the Danish Employers' Association's hearing response. Is it reasonable, given that if someone has called for an increase in the retirement age, then it is then the Danish Employers' Association, because they want to increase the supply of work, i.e. more competition for jobs and scope for tax relief? Now there is a tiny bill coming to employers as a result of an increase in the retirement age. Is it reasonable that the Danish Employers' Association should be compensated for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131341	To take the last point first, I would like to say that here in the legislative proposal we are proposing that employers should have an expense, but it is, in fact, well known. It is not an expense that occurs suddenly. This bill and this amendment have been known to the employers as well. I have read the consultation answer, and I also expect the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to have read the consultation note, where there is, in principle, an answer, including the Government's response that we do not change this bill as a result of the employers' consultation response. To begin with: yes, there are citizens who are unfortunately being worn out of work today, and there are also today schemes, both early retirement, flexible jobs and the senior early retirement scheme mentioned here, which can be used if you are no longer able to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131441	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131444	Thank you. I welcome the rapporteur's refusal to meet the demands of the Danish Employers' Association. I just asked to be absolutely sure because I thought I might have become a little bit uncertain since it was highlighted in the rapporteur's speech. On the other hand, the rapporteur must recognize that the rapporteur himself has contributed to a series of reforms of unemployment benefit, early retirement, flexible jobs, sickness benefits and cash benefits, all of which reduce the possibilities for the group we are talking about here in order to cope financially with the situation in which they cannot be in the labour market. Many of them have to leave it long before they can retire or retire. What is the rapporteur's concrete answer to these people, given that those arrangements do not provide any help?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131536	As far as employers are concerned, we want to ensure that better framework conditions are created for companies, but it is just not part of this bill, hopefully, in connection with this year's conclusion of a financial law, that they can also create more jobs for the benefit of the very people whom Mr. Finn Sørensen speaks of this. If you cannot work, there are a large number of schemes. I am, in fact, proud that we are constantly trying to keep people going, ensuring different arrangements so that you can have a link with the labour market, even though you may only be able to work 25%. or 50%. It's important. There is a joy of life in having a job, and I think it is important to stick to that rather than, as we used to do, parking people on an early retirement pension, almost before they were 40 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131628	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131630	Thank you. I therefore share the rapporteur's view that it is important to keep people connected to the labour market and to have arrangements for it. That is why I am annoyed and am surprised that some of the things that were prioritized during the lifetime of the then government will now be cut off by the rapporteur's own party in government. And if we look at the consultation answers that have come to this bill, we can see that all the employees' organisations are more or less united in saying that it is a huge challenge to raise the retirement age on the one hand, while on the other hand putting the think tank down for a good senior working life. Can the rapporteur not share the opinion of the Parliamentary Assembly in what on earth is really the basis of that resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131723	We are thus still concerned that we can ensure that people who have had either a long working life or a life in which they have also been on transfer income for part of working age are guaranteed a decent life as pensioners. We have written this in the government base, and we will work for it and make a proposal for it at an appropriate time in the new year. That's one. The second is, of course, that I think it sounds a little hollow when the Socialists, who have just sat in government, criticise that we are going to continue the work of the Labour Inspectorate. But when it came to extra funds, it was always Enhedslisten who had to push the previous government to deliver on it. And now we haven't seen what the Finance Act looks like yet, so perhaps there are also additional funds for the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131825	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131827	Then I will look forward to keeping up with the financial legislation negotiations, because I sincerely hope that priority will be given to funding for the Labour Inspectorate. I think, however, that the rapporteur did not reply to what I was actually asking because I specifically asked about the think tank for senior working life. In other words, employees' organisations agree that the retirement age cannot be increased, while not giving proper thought to how to ensure a proper balance between working life and senior life. Why has the government chosen to give priority to what it has done?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131903	We are, in fact, very concerned that we can find the right balance. We are working on this in the government, and we will come up with a proposal that will enable us to ensure that we can have both a good working life and a good senior life when we reach retirement age. We will make a proposal on this at an appropriate time. Here, where we talk about the Factory Inspectorate and talk about how to ensure the good working environment, which can ensure that you can also work a little longer, even if you may have a hard physical or mental job, we are actually concerned that we should then make use of the 420 million already. kr., which is currently used for labour inspection. We are the country in Europe that spends the most per year. people on the effort we provide with the Factory Inspectorate. I am proud of that, and I would like us to continue with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113131958	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Finn Sørensen for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113132008	Thank you. On Wednesday, the Employment Committee received a visit from the LO, 3F and the BAT-Cartel. They told us in concrete and frightening terms about the major health and safety problems that exist for their members and about how accidents at work and wear and tear fill too much in everyday life. The BAT-Kartellet reported that the frequency of accidents at work is twice as high in construction as in the rest of the labour market, and they told how the health and safety representatives are under pressure. The LO reported that 60 000 per year suffers an accident at work, that 38 per cent. FOA members do not expect to be able to stand to work until they can retire and that poor working conditions cost society approx. 64 billion kr. every year. 3F told me that 25%. of their members have left the labour market no later than the age of 60 because they have taken early retirement or died. The current occasion for the visits of the trade union organizations was the Government's plans for severe savings in the Labour Inspectorate in the coming years. As the trade union movement sees it, it will only cause even greater problems for the groups mentioned, and one can only agree with them on this. Their visit is also a gloomy background music for the bill we are discussing here today. Bad working conditions mean that thousands of people have to leave the labour market long before they can retire, because of accidents at work, wear and stress. An increase in the retirement age will hit these groups even harder. This also means that even more people must wave goodbye to the early retirement. After all, the retirement age follows up with the retirement age. The consequence of the draft law is that those who are 52 years old today or younger can only retire at the age of 68 and can only retire at the age of 65. At the same time, the halving of the daily allowance period and the doubling of the requirement for the recovery of the daily allowance pass through. This means that in the years to come many thousands will lose their right to benefits and thus also the right to early retirement in addition to the many who have already lost both. In addition, there are other reforms of early retirement, sickness benefits, cash benefits, which also hit the hardest among the group of skilled and unskilled workers and others who have worn-out and stressful jobs. The result of these reforms will be that we will have a growing group, many thousands of people who are forced to live for cash benefits or nothing in the last many years up to an ever-decreasing retirement age if they live so long. It will only get worse in the years to come, because the mechanics of the so-called withdrawal reform and the welfare agreement, of which this bill is an end, are that the retirement age must be continually increased. As expected, the senior early retirement pension, which was made as a patch on the wound after the deterioration of the post-retirement wage, has not solved the problem, and it will not do so in the future, unless the criteria for it are radically changed, which of course should happen. It is also necessary to put an end to the thinking behind this bill as well as to the other deterioration in the safety of workers which has taken place over the past 4-5 years. Just as there will be no more people in work from taking benefits and sickness benefits from people, there will also be no more people in work because we are raising the retirement age. This simply leads to lower wages, because more people have to fight for the same jobs, and thus a greater gain for employers. This leads to savings in social benefits, which have already been made available for tax relief in the years to come, particularly for those who already have the most. We're going another way. We must stop the wear and tear out of the labour market. We need radical improvements in the working environment. We must share work and prosperity so that many more can live to work throughout their lives. Those who are unable to do so must have the right to early retirement on a dignified basis. I warmly recommend to the rapporteurs the pamphlet we all received from the FOA a short time ago. Here you can meet the 60-year-old SOSU assistant Lene, who now has to crawl to work for two more years because the retirement age was increased. You can meet the bricklayer Morten, who at the age of 57 has pain everywhere, but he can only retire in 6 years, or the 56-year-old day care mother Hanne, who must take painkillers to get through the working day for 61⁄2 years yet. You can also listen to Karin's mate. Karin has since been 17 years old worked as HKs, among others. Here in the Folketing. Like many seniors, she has been looking for jobs for two years in vain. After New Year's, the daily allowance goes down. She's more lucky than most people, because she'll have time to go on early retirement or the husband's gonna have to support her. He says, and I quote: we are creating a brutal society for many of the seniors who are so unfortunate to become unemployed or sick. Employers put them at the end of the queue, while politicians reduce unemployment benefit, early retirement and sickness benefit. Quote out. This proposal only makes worse. Enhedslisten votes against.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113132510	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113132538	This bill can't surprise anyone. It is an expiry of the 2006 welfare agreement where it was agreed that the retirement age should be indexed with the increase in life expectancy. We think that's really good. This is one of the very sensible reforms that have been carried out over the last few years: reforms that were absolutely necessary because the reality was that the organisation of the welfare state, which was at least before 2006, was such that it was simply not linked; there were huge, huge structural deficits in public finances and therefore it was necessary to reform. Reforms are still necessary because, although there is now such a fair balance in public finances, when we look to the future, we are still away for very low economic growth. We have had the fourth lowest economic growth in the OECD in the last 20 years, and we have the prospect of only the sixth lowest growth among all OECD countries by 2030. So some of what is unique about Denmark, namely that we are a rich country compared to other countries, is threatened. And that is why we need to continue to make reforms that bring more people into the labour market, and especially when it comes to people who are fully capable of working and who can easily work. And it is also gratifying that that is exactly what is happening in these years. We see that those groups in the labour market for which employment is most important are actually +50-year-olds, +55-year-olds and +60-year-olds. The welfare agreement and specifically the withdrawal agreement itself contribute to raising employment by 90,000 people in 2025 and 167,000 people in 2040. So this is a reform that is right and ambitious, and it is also good that we are looking at whether to raise the retirement age when life expectancy rises. There we think it is worth noting that if the retirement age had been set in line with the actual trend in life expectancy, we should not set the retirement age up to 68 now. Then we should set it up to 691⁄2. That is why we also think it would be sensible if we looked forward to seeing whether it would be appropriate to increase the retirement age by only one year every five years, because we are in the happy situation that life expectancy is increasing in Denmark. So we will certainly call for this to be done, and we also believe that this will happen at some point in time. We are actually quite convinced of that. You might as well just do it now in order to reap the benefits of such a change more quickly. But, of course, we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113132857	Thank you to the rapporteur. One person has asked for brief comments. It's sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113132901	Thank you. It is no surprise to me that the rapporteur would like to tighten the screw even more and that he does not have any words for the many people who, because of poor working conditions, are unable to work until they reach retirement age. If I have misunderstood, the rapporteur may just say something about it. But I would just like to re-examine what the Liberal Alliance is looking at on the question of the conditions for the beneficiaries of the pension. I am thinking, of course, of the screaming contrast that exists. We will soon be voting on this bill, and it will of course be adopted by a large majority of politicians who have their own in the dark because they can retire just when they reach the age of 60 or 61, depending on when they have entered the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113132951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113132955	There are people who get run down by going to work, there is no doubt about that. There are hard jobs that, for one reason or another, wear people down. After all, not all people in a specific industry get worn out. There are some who will be. It is actually relatively few people in Denmark compared to other highly developed welfare societies. We have a good working environment in Denmark. People are healthy and, moreover, happy to go to work, which is probably also reflected in the fact that employment is also increasing for older age groups. For those who are being worn out, there is probably no country that has more generous dependency schemes than Denmark, and those schemes are then available to people who, for one reason or another, lose their working capacity completely or partially. That is the way it should be, and so will it be in the future, so I think that has been dealt with in our Parliament in Denmark to a large extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133106	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133108	Thank you, but does that mean that the rapporteur believes that when a single trade union movement is at least a single LO trade union movement, and I know that the FTF has the same views, coming and pointing out the negative consequences of increasing the retirement age, because a lot of their members are unable to bite their way into the labour market until they can go on early retirement or retirement, those trade union organisations are shooting at the fact that it is just something they are making up and that it is not really messed up? And then I did not get the answer to the second question; if it can be reached, it is fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133146	I think to answer the second question, which I did not have time to answer, that the retirement age of politicians should follow the retirement age of everyone else. I think it would have been wise on the political side to have done so. Then you would have closed one, I think, unfortunate discussion. So I am of the opinion that that should be done. To the second part of the question, it is of course no surprise to people who follow a little in politics that the trade union movement is opposed to any labour market reform being made in Denmark. We think this is a pity because the labour market reforms that have been made over the past many years have contributed to Denmark being a more prosperous country. It is a trade union movement which never comes up with concrete solutions to the challenges that are and they are great, but unfortunately we know the trade union movement when it is worst.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133240	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. Excuse me, I'm sorry, but I just signed up for a questioner. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133255	That was just the last remark that got me out of the chair and I regret that I was a little slow to get in. Firstly, it is quite wrong that the Danish trade union movement is simply opposed to all possible labour market reforms and that it never contributes to finding any solutions at all. So, some of the biggest and most noticeable changes and solutions that have been found in this modern society we live in, from the creation of occupational pensions to the tripartite agreement in 2007, etc. That's kind of one part of it. Secondly, there is something I would just like to ask the rapporteur. In fact, I share the enthusiasm that we are a country that, compared to all sorts of other countries, has a good working environment, but it requires investment to continue to have it, and this requires a focus on it, which is why I would like to hear what the Liberal Alliance's position really is on the cuts made in the Labour Inspectorate. I'm sure I can predict what it is. However, does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur not think it is important that if we are to have a good working environment in the future, then at the same time we should also have supervision that works and that can actually go out to prevent occupational injuries and occupational diseases from occurring?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133408	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133415	Personally, I'm not impressed by the ability of the trade union movement to take responsibility for this community. I'm honestly not. For too many decades it has been the case that the trade union movement has known that it has known, for example. could push through higher and higher minimum wages because there were some politicians in here who were ready to pick up the bill in the form of all the people who were pushed out of the labour market. There are a great many people in Denmark who have been pushed out of the labour market, and I do not think this has been an expression of responsibility, just as the trade union movement also has great difficulty in taking responsibility by getting some of the many immigrants we have in Denmark into the labour market, because, for example, they have to take responsibility. against integration pay and other things. So all too often I think the trade union movement has no responsibility for the fundamental development of this society. I would also like to mention that tripartite agreements are certainly not something with which the Socialist Government was particularly successful in relation to the trade union movement, because there they could not take responsibility either. But we are entirely behind the cuts that are in the Labour Inspectorate in the Finance Act. An agreement has been drawn up that targets the efforts of risk-based supervision and we think this is sensible, and thus we think that savings can also be made. Moreover, the appropriations were due to expire, and they did so under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133533	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133535	Now the rapporteur is again embarking on the counter-actual history, because none of us knows what it was that a Socialist-led government would give priority to the financial laws of the next few years. But it is, after all, just a really depressing view of society expressed by the rapporteur when it is that he does not believe that the trade union movement contributes anything good at all. What it is really doing is ensuring that it does, and the rapporteur should also know that the Danish employees get their rightful gain when it is that productivity increases and when it is that prosperity increases. This is guaranteed, and it has also greatly helped to ensure that we are a society in which we have as high a wealth as we have and a society in which it is distributed as widely as possible. So I do not agree with the rapporteur, but it is probably no surprise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133624	I do not think I said that the trade union movement contributes anything good, because I think it does. There are many good things about employees organising themselves, and it also creates easier cooperation between employers and employees etc., so there are plenty of good things to be said about that. But I completely disagree with the picture that the Danish trade union movement has been quite basically capable of taking responsibility for the development of society in Denmark over the past many years. It has been absolutely crucial that reforms have been made. It has been largely since the 1980s because the model advocated by the trade union movement, the huge welfare state built up, was simply not sustainable. Many reforms have been made and they have been against the vast majority of them. All unemployment benefit reforms, cash benefits reforms, the early retirement and flex jobs reform and the withdrawal reform have been opposed, in other words the whole package. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133715	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for short remarks now, and that is the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113133725	Thank you for the floor. The aim of the draft law amending the Social Pensions Act and the Work Damage Insurance Act is to ensure that the increasing life expectancy of Danes also leads to several active years in the labour market and, in the context of the increase in the law on occupational injury insurance, to ensure that employees are protected against the termination of insurance by insured employers as a result of the increase in the premium due to the increase in the retirement age. In the alternative, we fully understand that the 2006 welfare reform and the 2011 retirement reform have aimed at raising the retirement age so that an increase in life expectancy is followed by several active years of work. However, we believe that we must also look at our overall working life and the relationship between family life and working life. We basically doubt the assumption that everyone over a whole life will have to work more on average, as we believe that in the future there will be a great need to share the work that is there. A shorter working week, part-time jobs and a time bank model, which we among other things. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal, and I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. However, there are problems in the way we have designed the withdrawal arrangements. We have raised the retirement age for everyone and cut the early retirement age for everyone, regardless of how long people have been on the labour market and contributed to the community, and regardless of the fact that there are particularly affected sectors when it comes to physical and mental wear and tear. The problem with the setting up of the withdrawal today is that, unfortunately, it hits socially wrong. It actually hits double wrong. It does not take account of inequality in working conditions, nor does it take account of inequalities in health and life expectancy. FOA and the State Institute for Public Health document that the people who work in the worn-out industries have a lower lifespan than the average dancer, and they also work a relatively larger part of their lives than the average dancer. Overall, it makes sense that increasing life expectancy also leads to more active years in the labour market, but it just does not do so for all people in the same way. Many people already find themselves in the early 1960s having some disadvantages that set limits on their everyday lives and on their jobs. This applies especially to the many who have had a long working life with physically demanding work. We must also bear in mind that those who work in the worn-out industries have often had a much longer working life when they reach retirement age. For example, craftsmen, painters, porters, etc. who are leaving the labour market today have. typically worked hard since they were 15-17 years old. And even though today's young people in the same professional groups may only start their working life later, it is still the case that, for example, they are not able to work in the same professional groups. Unskilled and skilled people start much earlier in the labour market than those with a longer education and therefore also need an earlier withdrawal. Most of FOA's and 3F's members leave, for example. at early retirement age 61-64, while the vast majority of highly educated people continue for a few more years. The two federations represent many of the employees who have so physically demanding a job that they have to leave the labour market when they are in the early 1960s. For their younger colleagues, there is no choice but to continue on the labour market until they can get a retirement pension, and this is with this proposal when they are 68 years old. There is therefore a marked difference in working life, and we believe that this should be taken into account. We really must be careful to treat early retirement and retirement as figures in an excelark and forget to look at the people of reality and their conditions. Care must be taken that it will not be the lowest paid and the shortest educated who pay the price for the reforms in the withdrawal arrangements, and that is why we have two proposals to change the withdrawal arrangements of the future. First of all, we must ensure that the old-age pension scheme, which has also been debated here and which was introduced precisely to take account of people who have worn out after many years in the labour market, actually benefits those people. Much less than expected benefit from the scheme because the conditions for obtaining a senior early retirement pension are too restrictive. The safety net which the senior early retirement pension should provide under the worn-out persons simply does not function as intended, and we therefore propose more lenient rules for obtaining a senior early retirement pension. In addition, in the alternative, we propose to start rethinking employment policy in a way that opens up new and more flexible forms of work. It may be part-job schemes, a shorter working week or other proposals that can make working life more flexible so that it can be more easily adapted to the individual's working capacity and needs. In relation to the double distortion which the withdrawal arrangements are now leading to, we believe that we should think about a differentiated retirement age. An early onset in the labour market should give rise to an earlier pension. It does not make sense for the retirement age to be raised as a straight line for all employees when some have had a much longer and physically and mentally harder working life than others. And when at the same time it is this group that typically does not increase so much in life, then it makes even more sense to lower the retirement age for them. There are clearly challenges in drawing up a flexible, differentiated retirement age, but that can be done, and we have that, among other things. seen in Germany. Specifically, Germans, who have been 45 years on the labour market, can retire at the age of 63, which is 2 years earlier than the German retirement age of 65. We are therefore very sceptical about the proposal for an increase in retirement age and believe that this should be on the condition that the withdrawal arrangements are set up in a way that does not affect socially unfairly and that the most worn-out can obtain a previous pension after a long working life. We would therefore like to propose cooperation on an amendment which will ensure a more flexible withdrawal regime. We have to remember that in order to treat people equally, we have to treat them differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113134323	I would point out to the rapporteur that there are, in fact, only five minutes' speaking time available for rapporteur speakers. But we're kind of big on the new ones. Sir. Finn Sørensen has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113134335	Thank you. I know we have to abide by the rules, but I am glad that the President was a little large, because I thought that was a very good speech, which I would like to sign up for. And I would just like to say that the Enhedslisten is, of course, open to working with the alternative, which, as the only party so far, apart from our own party in all modesty, has recognised the major problems posed by the completely mechanical increase in the retirement age proposed here. So I just want to say that I look forward to a good cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113134407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113134409	Thank you. And then I would say that I think it is worth looking at the German system, where, as I said, there is a more flexible withdrawal system. In concrete terms, Germans, who have been 45 years on the labour market, can retire at the age of 63, which is 2 years earlier than the average German retirement age of 65 years. So I certainly think it is worth looking at the German scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113134434	There are no further comments to the rapporteur, so we thank him. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen on behalf of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113134443	Thank you for that, President. This bill, as the rapporteur has explained, is, after all, the implementation of the 2006 welfare agreement. At that time we decided that every five years we should decide on retirement age as life expectancy increases. We have done so now, so that the retirement age is slightly more adapted to life expectancy. After all, it is no secret that we in the Radical Left would have liked to have seen things go a little further this time, because the Danes live even longer than expected. That is, in all its simplicity, a truly joyful news. But that also means that we have the prospect of several years of retirement and that there are generations who have the prospect of more years of retirement than the previous ones, but perhaps the most important thing is that there are a number of vintages that will have more time to retire than future generations. We really think there's something a little off about that. That is because, as politicians, we have not had the courage to bring forward the phasing-in of the welfare settlement. It was precisely because it is a prerequisite for our welfare and for our future welfare that we can afford to develop it. I think it is a little absent from the debate here. In fact, it is a very large cost to society when more people retire for many more years than before and also than future generations. Of course, this increases the pressure on public finances, which means that we have less for the future than we have had up to now. This is, of course, not least due to the fact that significantly more elderly people must have access to health and elderly services, and they must also be of high quality. We get better at it all the time, but it costs too. That is why in 2006 and again in 2011 we decided to raise the pension and early retirement age. That's where we put this deal, you might say, the Danes are looking for an average of 141⁄2 years' pension. But with this rapidly increasing life expectancy and again I would say that it's a joyful development... the time on retirement for a number of vintages will be on average 18 years or more. So we would like to adjust the rules so that the Danes get what they have been promised, but also so that in the future they can afford to take care of the elderly who need help and care; the children who need education and support; the families of children who need more people on the labour market so that they are not the ones who have to pull all the load when they come to the generations where there are fewer. We would have liked the government to have had the courage to do so. Perhaps we would have spared a great many of the savings that are now being negotiated. We don't get it, but somebody's negotiating them in the Ministry of Finance. We are also sorry that the working environment is being spared. We're also really sorry that this think tank for a good senior work life is shut down. We helped to propose this, and we were even very active in it, because of course, when many people have to stay a little longer in the labour market, they need to have a more flexible labour market; a labour market that is inclusive for people with different skills and abilities at different times in life. We will, of course, vote in favour of this. It is a step in the right direction, and then we will continue to work for an adjustment that corresponds to life expectancy, and that can be done next time in 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113134835	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Yes, I'm sorry, there was just one person who had time to sign in, and that was sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113134845	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that this is so great, because then you can have years of retirement as life expectancy increases, and that is why we can move that retirement age. That's how I understood it. But will the rapporteur recognise that there is a large group of low-paid and unskilled workers who can look forward to fewer years of retirement because this retirement age is being moved much further forward and since this group is living it is again an average consideration of approx. Ten years shorter than the highly educated, so can they look forward to fewer years of retirement every time you move up pensionable age?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113134933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113134936	I'd have been too bad if you didn't, sir. Finn Sørensen had asked me questions too. So thank you for that. It is good that we have often had this good one, I think, discussion about what we do for those people who, of course, are being worn out and cannot be as long on the labour market as others. We must pay full attention to this. That is what our reforms of early retirement and flexible jobs have been about, and we must continue to do so. It's not done. It's never done by implementing a reform. It must be followed to the end of the implementation process. It must be followed up, you must see how it works and what it is for some people, because it is precisely about people, it is about individual individuals. It is not about whether you are employed in a particular industry or member of a particular trade union that you have to be on the labour market for a certain number of years. It is about what it is you can contribute and whether you are able to do so, and if you are not, then you have the opportunity to do so, for example. to get a senior early retirement pension or a flexible job or get into one of the other schemes that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135042	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135046	Thank you. After all, I believe that the figures show that the reforms that the rapporteur has to praise have exactly the opposite effect, that they mean that more people are losing their livelihood and that fewer people can get, what can we say, a dignified financial basis in a situation where they cannot support themselves, because there is no job for them, or because they have lost the right to benefit, or because they are suffering from sickness and other conditions. So we look at that quite differently. But I would like the rapporteur to take a similar view of what I asked: that an increase in the retirement age means that large groups can look forward to fewer years of retirement because they simply do not live that long.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135131	Calculations such as these will always be average calculations, like Finn Sørensen's own calculations, as the rapporteur also pointed out. A large part of the Danes live much longer, and therefore in a vintage there will be a great many who will be retiring longer than the previous vintages got, just as they will have more time than future generations will have, to retire. That's not everyone. Some will have a different number of years. I admit that is complete. Of course it is. But it is, of course, about whether you are able to contribute to the labour market, whether you have resources and competences to contribute to it, and then we have to pick up where there are people who are worn out and unable to do so. I am completely concerned about this, just as I am and I hope that the rapporteur is very concerned that we can afford to develop welfare in the future, so that there is education for our children, so that we can take care of the most vulnerable elderly. And there will be no such thing if we do not take a position on the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135226	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more... yes, there's just one sign in. This is Mrs. Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135232	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur recognise that there are differences between sectors? I do not think there is any doubt that people in those sectors would like to contribute to society, etc. and like to work hard as much as they can, and for as long as they can. But I have to say that in my previous working life at least I have come to the realization that there is simply a difference between sectors. There are differences, for example. to sit here and be able to go down to your computer and sit around and work at it and then come up here and then be a craftsman who drags physically heavy things, which in the future does not seem to be able to be remedied by for example. digitalisation and other technical solutions. So my question is whether the rapporteur does not recognise that there may be differences between sectors.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135327	I certainly recognise that there can be a difference between what work is done and what it means for the body and for one's ability to work, completely. But to categorise it in sectors or union membership seems to me to be very rigid, and I do not think that promotes anything. I fully recognise that there is a great difference between how much one can contribute, depending on how hard one has worked and what kind of work has been involved, of course. But we must also say that, as the labour market develops, many things can happen, and some of these sad factors can hopefully be remedied, for example. new technology. We have seen that in other areas. But there will continue to be people who are worn out and unable to work as many years as others, and we must have arrangements for that. I think we should be able to do that with our senior early retirement, with our flexible jobs and possibly with other schemes. I hope, for example. also that it will be part of what the government brings into the tripartite working environment, the whole of being able to create a labour market where many more can be longer, but not necessarily full-time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135432	Second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135437	What is the problem with these arrangements is that they only catch people when it is too late. I think it would be very interesting if we could think of some arrangements here in the Folketing where people actually have the opportunity to stay as long as possible on the labour market where they are still able to do it physically. I think it is a pity that we are thinking in systems that make people stay so long on the labour market, and then there are systems that help them if they fall off the edge, in terms of being physically and mentally worn out. We can easily discuss whether these are specific industries. There are just types of jobs that are more critical, you might say, in relation to physical wear and tear than others. I'm not talking about special trade unions either. These are the typical jobs that I'm talking about. The second point I raised in my rapporteur's speech was that we are, in fact, the same number of years on the labour market, but that we are looking at the type of job. I would like to ask whether this was something the rapporteur could be willing to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135548	I agree with the first part of what the rapporteur said. That is also what I said in my previous reply, namely how we get a labour market that can accommodate many more, also in different ways. We simply need to develop this much more. I am also very concerned about how prevention efforts in the field of health and safety, for example. can fill more, because that's what makes you not to be caught first when you're worn out, but much like before, so that you get many more better years when you work in some of the functions where I completely recognize that there is wear. I am not that big a fan of the German model, precisely because it is sectoral. I am quite concerned that we are looking at the individual people, and I hope that will be part of the work that I am counting on the government to set in motion in the trialogue negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135640	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for short comments now. And then, sir... Rasmus Jarlov asked to come on before, and Mr. Karsten Hønge agreed. So here it is, sir. Rasmus Jarlov as Conservative rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135657	Thank you. This is due to a little pressure of time in that I, as chairman of the Defence Committee, will be up in the committee room in three minutes. That is why it will be very brief that I should like to announce that Conservatives support the bill. After all, we are part of the agreement behind it, so it is not surprising that we are doing so and that, like the government, we think it makes sense that we are keeping up with the age trend in the population. It would be nice if we didn't. But for us it is simply driven by economic necessity. Unfortunately, we have to ask people to work a little longer so that we can make the economy work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135747	It does not appear that anyone has asked for brief comments, so Mr. Rasmus Jarlov better get going and get his other assignments done. The next rapporteur is therefore Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113135801	It is actually very telling that it is today that we have to deal with this bill on Friday 13, because the bill is a horror. The bourgeois and now also the Social Democrats seem to see sunburned seniors on the golf courses, on around the world or in senior high schools, while at the same time trying to crowd out the pictures of people with osteoarthritis, the mentally burned out, those who start the day with painkillers for breakfast. The well-trimmed privileged on the sunny side of society are preparing to realize themselves a few more years on the labour market, and they will do that. The increase in retirement age is based on the average life expectancy which is increasing. So, apparently, when you pound people into templates, series of numbers, equations and excelark, it can go wrong, a statistic that ends up being a mouth stick for the shortest educated; the kind of average statistics created by the Devil himself a dark Monday morning. After all, the reality is quite different, and it is not about small groups in society. The 25%. the longest educated men live 10 years longer than the 25 per cent. Shortest trained men. Well, it's probably better in society. No, it doesn't. Twenty-five years ago, there was only five years of difference between these groups. It goes the wrong way, not only in relation to years of life, but especially in relation to good years of life with good health. Life expectancy is increasing, and so are the differences in society. This bill probably hits as a heat-seeking missile exactly the people who have received the least when education was given out, but who, in turn, have pulled the load for many years at work. Your retirement age sounds fair, but it is now quite easy to see through the kind of equality that is actually a toxic and socially unfair cross between a higher retirement age and a shattered pre-retirement wage. The trap claps about the short-educated people who are caught up in a double imbalance with unequal working conditions and inequalities in health and life expectancy. Today there is great inequality in the number of good years of life, and now it just gets worse. The elite is well in the process of creating a society in its own image, but it is a dream vision for the general population. And it must also be the same distorted picture that is the reason for the proposal for the severe savings made by the Labour Inspectorate, which the government is playing out with savings that exactly affect the prevention effort. In 2012, 73 per cent were employed. by FOA members aged 64 years on early retirement, and about the same figure applied to the members of 3F, and these are figures that illustrate the need. Today's 40-year-olds cannot look forward to early retirement, and with a 68-year-old pension age it is a real increase in retirement age of between 5 and 8 years. The State Institute for Public Health had a study in 2013 that showed a worse health among the short-trained than among the general population. Well, I guess we figured that out, but now it's also documented. If this bill is to make any sense at all, it requires other parallel initiatives. We must be much better at taking care of those people who are too sick to work but who are too healthy to get an early retirement pension. If you are close to retirement age, it simply makes no sense to have to be drawn through resource processes or work tests. But we must also note that the senior early retirement pension has failed with the very few that have slipped through the needle's eye. The SF proposes a new pension scheme or a thorough revision of the senior early retirement scheme, a pension scheme which specifically addresses the situation of each individual, education, the number of years in the labour market and possible physical wear and tear or mental burnout. The SF's objective is real justice based on the real reality outside Borgen and outside the Ministry of Finance. This so-called average leaves, as usual, the most worn on the bottom, while the privileged float upstairs like cork stoppers. A new flexible differentiated pension system can even out some of the inequalities in society. An unequal and socially divided working life should not continue with renewed force into senior life if it is up to the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140306	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140310	I would like to thank you for a very good rapporteur's speech. Then I just have to ask you one thing, and don't think of it as a joke. It is to find out where we are actually in relation to the SF's view of the previous agreements that have been around this, and it may also shed some light on the Social Democrats' view of these things, although I know that I cannot ask the Socialist rapporteur any more, but that is something like the question I asked. In 2011, it was written into the basis of the R, S and SF government that the withdrawal reform was endorsed, and the bill we are discussing here today is directly derived from the fact that it was written into the government base, for there was the foundation laid with a bill that we did not vote, but a majority voted, shortly after the government had acceded. But am I to understand the rapporteur's announcement in such a way that one feels completely free from that section of the government base? And if that is true, does the rapporteur think that this could be done by the Socialists without being accused of a breach of conciliation and such things?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140422	I am not going to learn how the Socialists intend to get out of a situation where they actually say all the right words, but do the wrong thing. I can say, in the case of the SF, that we see the situation from the formation of the government in 2011 such that, when the settlement was not activated while we were in government, we do not see ourselves as bound by the settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140439	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140445	Yeah, but is that right? As far as I remember, we adopted an amendment to the Social Pension Act, which means that Parliament is dealing with the bill we are doing today. I don't want it to take us apart. I think it's good to get a clear message from the SF that you don't feel bound by this in any way, and then I guess we can get a good collaboration and see if we can put up some alternative models that can soften the air for the cliffed sheep.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140518	As I said, we don't see that the settlement in this context was activated, and the SF doesn't feel bound by the settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140525	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. So we move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140542	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions here at the first reading of the draft law on the regulation of the retirement age. As has also emerged from the debate, this is the first time we have regulated the retirement age on the basis of life expectancy. These regulations, introduced by the welfare reform, have made Denmark a pioneering country in ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances. There was broad support for the introduction of this regulation, and today's debate shows that, fortunately, this is still the case. It is, of course, a rather special regulatory mechanism, because although the regulation is fully provided for in the law, it must be adopted by the Folketing. But I think that is actually appropriate. In this way Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss every five years the retirement age and the related issues. After all, the debate here today has shown that it has been used. At the same time, it is also important that regulation is not called into question. I am therefore pleased to note that there is still broad support for the regulatory principle. The reconciliation parties behind the welfare reform considered that increases in the retirement age should be made by law and with a long warning period. This happened because the retirement age is of crucial importance for citizens' planning of their working life and pension savings. And it helps to create calm about an area that means a lot to the Danes. After all, the aim of regulating the retirement age is to ensure that the increasing life expectancy of Danes also leads to several active years in the labour market. It helps to secure the funding of the Danish welfare society for many years to come and provides room for greater spending on health and care when there are more older people. As the debate also shows, the regulation of the retirement age must be seen in the context of the opportunities to maintain older people in the labour market. I agree with that. The most important condition for this is that we create growth and hence jobs, as well as concrete initiatives targeted at seniors in the context of major reforms in the field of employment and in cooperation with the social partners. Thank you for your contributions today and I look forward to a constructive discussion of the proposal in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140836	One person has asked for brief comments. It's sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140839	Thank you, Minister. My first question is: does the Minister recognize that there are large groups in the labour market, particularly among unskilled and skilled workers who cannot stand to be on the labour market until they reach even more deferred retirement age? My second question is: will the Minister help to change the rules on this senior early retirement pension so that it can at least meet the expectations that were put forward when it was adopted? I think it was about 2,000-3,000 a year that was expected to benefit from it, but the figure is quite a few hundred.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113140931	I recognise that people in different jobs are burdened in different ways. What needs to be done about it must be done to develop the work situation while in working life or in private life. This is not something to be regulated in relation to the regulation of old-age pensions. With regard to the second issue of the senior early retirement scheme, I think we should be aware that around 88 per cent. of the persons who have applied for a senior early retirement pension have been granted a senior early retirement pension. There are not so many who have applied for a senior early retirement pension as they were expected when they were doing it here, but it can be linked to more things: firstly, that we live much longer than provided; secondly, that we are healthier than provided; and thirdly, that there have subsequently been a number of other labour market schemes which they can choose and which can give them a working life in the last few years before retirement. Finally, we must be aware that working life is not stationary. There are about 750,000 job changes a year. This means that it is not typical in Denmark that the same person is subjected to the same wear and tear throughout a whole working life.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141049	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141053	Thank you for your answer. Now, through the work of the committee, we can clarify whether the exhaust from the labour market due to accidents at work, wear and stress is less today than it was two, four, five, seven years ago. We shall see to it that some questions are asked about this. Now the Minister says that the problem of wear and tear should not be tackled by changing the rules on withdrawal, but that it should be dealt with by having a better working environment. That is my brief explanation of the work situation. It must also cover the working environment. In fact, there is a lot of sense in that too, but how can it be that the government is proposing a financial bill which, if it is not amended, will result in massive cuts in the Labour Inspectorate in the coming years? That is exactly the opposite of what the Minister is saying here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141145	No, it's not. As we know, there have been some appropriations for supervision, which are exclusively linked to specific supervisory efforts, but at the same time, in the spring, very sensible decisions have been taken on risk-based supervision which can target supervisory activities to particularly risky companies. Our aim in the field of health and safety has not been reduced in terms of the level of ambition. We want a proper working environment, we want to be at the top of Europe, and we still have away Scandinavia's highest costs of supervisory activities, but we aim to develop the healthy working environment from below, from corporate management, in companies, in cooperation with employees and under effective supervision from supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141233	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141236	Thank you. The Minister mentions that what was necessary for this to be linked is, of course, that we should create a proper working environment and that we should create a proper working life, especially for seniors in the labour market. Now we have had the opportunity to discuss through a number of different consultations some of the savings that are being made on labour inspection etc., but there is one thing I would like to ask. In the consultation answers that we have received with this bill, especially from the employees' organisations, you write to the Folketing before we adopt it here. The LO writes, among other things, that it is considered a major mistake to lay down the senior think tank. FTF writes that they express great amazement about it. Can the Minister not share with us what is really the basis for dismantling this think tank, and how does this relate to the wish expressed by the Minister himself from the Parliament's platform, namely that we should ensure that we have a proper working environment and, in particular, a proper senior working life?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141342	The senior think tank was a think tank initiated by the previous government, which had not begun its work at all in connection with the change of government. This government has chosen a different strategy. We do not have lower ambitions in terms of dealing with seniors' working lives, but we want to do so in cooperation with the social partners, which we have invited to trialogue negotiations at the beginning of next year, and there we want to address the issues that are relevant in terms of securing the necessary labour force, ensuring that you can last your life, ensuring orderly working conditions in the labour market. So it's a different strategy, but not reduced ambitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141423	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141426	I should like to say briefly: I do not think it is possible to blame that the senior think tank has not been able to start its work. After all, it was reduced this year, so very shortly before the elections were held. But isn't the honest truth also that the money devoted to doing this work is money that the government is planning to spend on other initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141448	I do not participate in the financial law negotiations, so I do not know what money is planned for. But it is clear that we have had the challenge as a government, that there was less money in the box than was expected before the elections, and that is why tough priorities have been required, including in my area of ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141509	The next brief remark is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141514	Thank you. What prompts me to ask the Minister something is the fact that the Minister said that not many had applied for a senior early retirement pension, and therefore not many have been granted it. But could this not be because, when they get to the job center and say they have them and the problems, they are told that they have to go through a resource process, a job clearance process, and thus they do not get through the process to senior early retirement? And then it's not registered that they've been searching, even if they've been asking for it. It will only be registered that they have asked for it if a piece of paper is filled in. If they are then told that they are going through a process of resources, they may say: they probably know the rules better than I do. Could it not be that this is the sort of thing that is linked to the fact that no one else has sought?
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141605	I fully agree with the dilemma raised that we are looking at in connection with the treatment of this bill. Because if that is the case, then that is not what was intended. As I mentioned in an earlier reply, I believe that, following the implementation of the original law here, more opportunities have been created for worn-out workers than originally. Nothing must have been done to put them at a disadvantage in terms of their ability to obtain a senior early retirement pension, as originally agreed and decided upon.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141643	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141645	It is just to say that it is my belief that when the early and flex-job reform was made, some guidance was made for the municipalities, which means that they have to work after it, that is to say, resource progression, flexible jobs. That is why it may well be that in the municipalities they do not think that the possibility of early retirement is there for those who come and are really worn out. Then I just want to ask whether the Minister is prepared for it to be resolved and we will have clarification so that the municipalities will use the instrument in their work on those who are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141725	Of course, I am prepared to consider this during the course of the treatment. But I would like to warn against trying to speak everything black. In fact, the situation is that we live much longer than provided that we are much healthier than provided. The population we are talking about here is the one with the lowest unemployment rate. It is therefore an unemployment rate that is somewhat lower than the average of the unemployment rate. Many of them are really healthy and thrive well. The fact that fewer people have applied for early retirement does not therefore need to be a problem. This may indicate that the state of health is better than it had been assumed when legislation was being drafted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141805	No one else has asked for brief comments. In doing so, we would like to thank the Minister for Employment. Since no one else has asked to speak either, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151113141823	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday 16 November 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00 a.m. already Monday. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
