ParlaMint-DK_20150225130009	The meeting is open. I have the following reviews: Minister of Transport (Magnus Heunicke): Bill no. L 141 (Proposal for a law on the construction and operation of a fixed link over the Fehmarn Belt and related landworks in Denmark), Bill No. 142 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Sund and Bælt Holding A/S, Law on the design of fixed link over Femern Bælt and related landworks in Denmark and the Corporate Tax Act) and Bill No. L 143 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on the construction of a railway line Copenhagen-Ringsted over Køge (Authorisation for the establishment of level-free merge at Ny Ellebjerg with related facilities)). Tax Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 144 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on taxation of electricity and VAT) (Adjustments to the wholesale model, etc.) the introduction of a reverse charge on the gas and electricity markets). Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Morten Østergaard): Bill no. L 145 (Proposal for a Law amending the Central Register of Persons (Special address protection for persons exposed to threats to their individual in connection with honour-related or cohabitation-related conflicts, etc.)) Bill No. L 146 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Election of the Folketing, the Act on the Election of Danish Members to the European Parliament, the Law on Municipal and Regional Elections and the Law on Financial Support for Political Parties, etc.) Bill No. L 147 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Election of the Folketing, the Act on the Election of Danish Members to the European Parliament and the Law on Municipal and Regional Elections) Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs (Manu Sareen): Bill No. L 148 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on Disbursement Denmark and various other laws (Transfer of jurisdictions to Disbursement Denmark and introduction of powers to enable Payout Denmark to carry out registers on, inter alia, communal benefits, etc.) President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). B 78 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ratification by Denmark of the Optional Protocol of 19 December 2011 to the Convention on the Rights of the Child). Minister for Education and Research (Sofie Carsten Nielsen): Bill no. L 149 (Proposal for a law amending the Social Security Act, the Law on vocational education and Bachelor's degree programmes and the Law on special pedagogical support for higher education (State aid for supplementing the admission course to engineering courses, legal basis for obtaining information electronically from the Income Register and for coordinating and collating information for control purposes, etc.)). Minister for Climate, Energy and Building (Rasmus Helveg Petersen): Bill no. L 150 (Proposal for a law on State subsidies for electricity-intensive enterprises) and Bill No. L 151 (Proposal for a law amending the law on electricity supply (Adjustment and postponement of the wholesale model and postponement of the obligation to supply)). Minister for Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill No. L 152 (Proposal for a Law on International Safety Rights in Aircraft Equipment). Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 153 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on retail sales by shops, etc., the Law on consumer protection in the acquisition of immovable property, the Law on employment, etc., the Law on the performance of tasks by municipalities and regions of other public authorities and municipalities and regions in companies and various other laws, the Law on Translaters and Interpreters, and the Law on the abolition of the law on dispaachers (Simplification of exemption for retail sale on public holidays, abolition of maximum prices in the house inspection scheme, minimum protection of certain categories of persons on board ships, abolition of the reporting obligation for municipalities and regions in companies and abolition of the system for appointing translators and interpreters, and for dispaachers, etc.)) and Bill No. L 154 (Proposal for a law amending the law on securities trading, etc., the law on financial activities, the law on credit agreements, the law on financial advisors, the law on mortgage credit companies, the law on mortgage loans and mortgage bonds, etc.) and various other laws (Right to basic deposit accounts, implementation of amendments to the Transparency Directive, modernisation of the rules for submission of annual reports, extension of the operation of other business of insurance companies, clarification of the regulation of refinancing risk for mortgage bonds, etc. and implementation of the Housing Credit Directive, etc.). Peter Skaarup (DF), Eigil Andersen (SF), Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr-Bæhr (EL) and Charlotte Dyremose (KF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 79 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of full compensation for employees who have been subjected to violence at work). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 80 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the retirement age of politicians), motion for a resolution No. B 81 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the less lucrative accumulation of pensions for ministers), motion for a resolution No. B 82 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the less lucrative calculation of the pension for ministers), motion for a resolution No. Β 83 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a more reasonable ceiling for politicians' pensions) and motion for a resolution No. 84 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution abolishing the possibility of receiving remuneration and ministerial pension at the same time). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Justice (Mette Frederiksen) has informed me that she wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the use by the administration of coercive measures and information obligations outside criminal procedure. 9). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130302	Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 1 is addressed to the Minister for Finance and the question has been asked by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130315	Does the Minister agree with the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs, who in the letter A4 supports the Skandia model, which looks at the effects of e.g. early action and prevention?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130330	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130332	Thank you very much. I should like to start by pointing out that the Skandia model, which is being asked, is intended for the municipalities' prioritising of their social efforts, and that is an important point, since within the overall framework set out in the annual economic agreements, the municipalities themselves can give priority to their efforts. Municipalities have the freedom to choose for themselves which tools they will use and base their decisions. If the municipalities consider that the Skandia model gives them a better decision-making basis to prioritise social action, they are free to choose to use it. In addition, I would also like to point out that, overall, and I believe that this is also the case with the questioner, I think it makes good sense to focus on preventing social problems before they grow large and whether the said Skandia model supports it in a precise way and takes into account all the facts that apply, I cannot technically relate to. As I understand it, the Skandia model calculates at an overall level where and how much a municipality might save if preventive action succeeded, for example. become fewer drug users or fewer who get lifestyle diseases. The model thus gives an estimate of the magnitude of the economic impact that can be achieved if a given number of persons do not end up in a exposed group. By using the model it is the municipalities themselves that have to estimate the behavior effect, and the municipalities themselves must assess how many people, as a result of the preventive efforts, will actually avoid ending up with an abuse or lifestyle disease. And that is an assessment which is, by its very nature, extremely difficult, not least in view of the fact that it is extending for many years. The model is not a dynamic model. It is a model which alone responds to what happens if it is the case that a particular behavior is applied. This does not show the impact of the social efforts of the municipalities. It is probably also because it is very difficult to assess. This does not mean that the model cannot be a tool in the municipalities' priorities. It may be very sensible to try to keep track of the potentials for income and expenditure when the municipalities have to prioritise their social efforts, and this makes good sense especially in the early prevention effort, where the intention is entirely to avoid people ending up in an undesirable situation. I do not believe that the model can be used to give more general priority to public expenditure. It is a political priority, of course, how much money we need to spend on, for example. Health. For example: action can, of course, reduce the number of cancer cases, but that does not necessarily mean that we can then reduce the cost of health care as such. Instead, other treatments may be needed. And basically it is a political priority how much money you want to spend on, for example. Health. That is why I have the view that some public expenditure must be borne, whether it leads to savings or not. What is important in this sense is not the saving, but that the vulnerable people we are talking about will be better off by, for example, us. improves the efforts we are making, including in the area of cancer treatment, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130626	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130630	Thank you. Now I think that most people who have followed the Minister of Finance know that he has a pretty good insight into figures and so on, and so I am a little surprised that the Minister of Finance should not be technically able to relate to the Skandia model, whereas the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs is quite supportive of at least the overall idea of looking at how to give financial priority to measures, for example. the social area, so that it not only has a human effect but also an economic effect. Skandia has asked CBS to calculate what they call outside, i.e. those outside the community, costs on the bottom line, so to speak. CBS has calculated that it costs 72.3 billion. kr. per vintage, or more than 8%. of children in 60 000 years of age have a life of serious mental illness, abuse problems, unemployment, etc. So they calculate it to cost 72 billion. And then it matters whether we recognise it and not only see it as a service cost, but also as an investment. And there I just want to hear the Minister again: does it not have an effect on whether you look at an expenditure such as not only an expense but also an investment when we have to prioritise funds, but also when the municipalities have to prioritise funds, in terms of what they should be DTed for, what they should have in municipal agreements etc. in relation to the tasks for which they are responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130808	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130810	First of all, I would like to thank the questioner for the opinion that I have some sense of figures. I think that is very, very kind. I'll take that home with me and enjoy it. In addition, I do not think there is any reason to disagree more than you need on this point. I thought I was trying to explain quite carefully what this model can do and what it can't do. It can price, if I may say so, the cost of social problems and therefore also the benefit of solving social problems. It cannot, on the other hand, say anything about whether social problems are actually solved by various means. You can't know that. Unfortunately, what is currently the case with our social policy in Denmark is that much of the money we spend does not have the desired effect. That is why a Minister for Social Affairs, whom I think the questioner will be aware of, namely Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, developed social policy in the direction of actually setting real targets for moving social policy forward in Denmark. What we have then is to find the right instruments. Until we find them, we can't count on a win.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130911	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225130912	I have a great deal of faith in the Minister of Finance's understanding of figures, so we are not always entirely politically agreed. But there must also be room for it not to be. I think the Minister for Finance has a point in that we do not have enough knowledge about what social measures apply. And in addition to the human effect that may be that more people become part of the community and the labour market and avoid a life with a lot of health problems, there is also a real bottom line here: 72 billion per year. vintage. That is why I am surprised that in the SF we could not get more than 40 million in the negotiations on the research funds that will be implemented in parallel with the budget negotiations. kr. for research into this, because it is only on the bottom line that it must be economically worthwhile to research into it, so that we know what efforts we can make to save some people some social problems, but can also save some money in the treasury. Seventy-two billion. Surely it must be worth spending some money to research how we can get it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131026	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131027	As I remember the financial law negotiations, we agreed at the end, which means that the SF spent all the money at its disposal on other things that were considered even more important. That is how negotiations were conducted from my perspective. I would like to say that we now have the opportunity to discuss this politically, and I would really like to thank the questioner for that. It's usually a little reverse. It's usually the case that when I go to an area like this... social policy, public school policy, public sector governance and saying that we need more numbers, more data and that we need to measure what works and what does not work, yes, I am often met by representatives from, for example, the United Kingdom. SF, who says it's all wrong. And if what we agree on here today is that we need to have more data on the table in relation to what works in social policy and that what does not work must be changed, then I am a happy man.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131111	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131112	Well, SF would like to measure what makes sense. On the other hand, there have been a large number of cases in which we believe that there may be excessive djøfisation to the public sector and where a lot of energy is used to measure some things that are not really getting very much out of, which means that there is no room for a lot of so-called warm hands. But I think I will conclude otherwise the Minister must correct me that the Minister actually agrees with the spirit of this model, but just does not think it can be used very specifically.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131153	Just a little polite correction: it can be used very concretely, the municipalities are completely free to do so. It cannot be used to allocate more money than you already do, in some smart way or other, where you just get around the demands of financial responsibility. It can be used to prioritise healthy in the municipalities. You're free to do that. And if I have got it out of it today that I have both been recognised for my ability to count and have got SF on that more data and facts, also in the soft areas of Danish politics, are worth going for, then it has been a great day.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131225	It is good to conclude the first question with the fact that joy is spreading. As long as it lasts, we'll move on to the next question. It's still gone to the finance minister, and it's still gone by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131236	In the middle of this uplifted mood and agreement that it is good to get more knowledge, get more figures on the table, I would like to ask the Minister why after 31⁄2 years the Minister has still not presented us with the work of looking at the arithmetic models in the Ministry of Finance as promised in the government base.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131256	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131257	It may have helped to decide that no real committee work should be set up when the SF was in government. And I would remind you that we agreed that the work should instead be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, with the involvement of the economic ministries as necessary. If you have any doubts as to whether I am right, you can consult my answer to the Financial Committee's question No. 507 from October 2013, which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen seems to have overlooked. It is an answer that was aligned with the Treasury, which as you know was led by a SF minister at the time. In addition, there has actually been a report from the work to assess the dynamic effects of public expenditure, and this is the case in the field of education, where the Ministry of Finance has carried out a major analysis of the importance of the level of training for productivity in Denmark, and we have published this analysis in the "Finances Review 2014" and it can also be consulted if you are interested. This is, of course, not the end of the work as such. It is an agenda that we are constantly working on, and the starting point for the Ministry of Finance's calculation principles is that impact assessments should be as accurate as possible, and the recognition of concrete behavioural effects is based, as a general rule, on actual observed experience with the effects on the work supply from previous reforms. And in areas of concrete action where practical, we are looking for a basis for experience and an estimate of the behaviour of labour supply effects of economic policy initiatives, and this is the case in the field of employment and taxation. In a number of other areas, on the other hand, there are no fixed points to estimate the dynamic impact of public expenditure on the supply of labour, and in these areas, of course, we cannot make such estimates. Having said that, I would like to point out that when we have to give priority to where public expenditure is to be invested or incurred, this is done on the basis of an assessment of where investment or expenditure is most beneficial to society, and in transport, for example, is included. calculations of the socio-economic return on investment in infrastructure in the policy base. So the dynamic effects are not used in the overall priorities, they are used in assessing how policy measures affect the general government balance and, to the extent that policy decisions increase labour supply, the general government balance will be improved and, in this situation, it will be possible to use the improvement in the balance for other purposes. However, most public investment and expenditure do not affect the supply of labour, or there are uncertain effects, which is why the government has worked throughout its lifetime on the precautionary principle established by the S-R-SF government in connection with the formation of government back in 2011. Therefore, it is also natural that the government will not dispose of any gains for increased labour supply until we are sure that the gains have been made. As I also mentioned in my answer to the previous question, we in the Ministry of Finance are constantly working on impact assessments, including in relation to the government's growth objectives, and the economic ministries are involved, where appropriate, and the work is regularly reported in, among other things. the financial statements and technical documentation notes.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131618	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131620	Is it not true that in the autumn of 2013, in relation to such a large chrome-plated plan to involve trade ministries and do more work to look at the arithmetic models, the Ministry of Finance and Finance undertook to do an internal committee work to look at the models and thus not put it into the grave, as I think the Minister is a little insinuating, so that there was an agreement that this should not be further worked on at all? After all, the Minister of Finance himself says that education was actually looked at as a parameter in relation to what could be given. In relation to my previous question on precisely social interventions, I would say: well, if you cannot see that it has an economic effect, it will obviously have a consequence of the funds you are going to add to the area, because the framework will simply be smaller. So again: is it not true that the Ministry of Finance undertook to continue working on this work in the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131730	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131732	No, what is true is that the SF has forgotten what you have helped to decide yourself, and if you have not forgotten it, then you have just regretted that you had the positions you had in the government on this point, which unfortunately on this subject is a number of other points. That is why today we are asking a question to which the answer has been given in itself, namely that what was in the government base on this would be done in a certain way: informally and in the government through coordination between the economic ministries, and that is exactly what we have done, and that is exactly what we are doing on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131800	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131801	I can of course hear that there is a disagreement as to how that work should be continued after the decision taken in autumn 2013. For I was clearly of the opinion that the Ministry of Finance would take on the role of looking at the way the Ministry of Finance calculated, the calculation models used, but not the great chrome-plated work that had been unfolded in relation to the involvement of all the trade ministers. Now there is a big difference between how ministries calculate, for example. We think that the Ministry of Transport is quite good at including different parameters. But I do not agree with the Minister that this work should be completely buried. Nor do I think my party colleague, who at that time was in government with the Minister for Finance, would be.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131850	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131851	First of all, nothing has been laid in the grave. I have given a very precise description of how this sort of thing works and how it has developed. Whether you agree or not in SF, I must leave it entirely to the SF to be an exciting discussion, as it has been on other occasions. I should just like to note that, I think, there is something embarrassing about asking questions about a decision that you yourself have helped to make, because you realized that was the sensible way to do things. Moreover, it is entirely in line with the practice of oneself when one was in government, in relation to calculation principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131922	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225131923	It doesn't sound like we're getting that much closer. However, I would just like to return to a brief comment made by the Minister of Finance, namely that it is a matter of political priorities, how much money will be spent on, for example. social interventions, health, etc. But it does with everything. It is also a political priority whether or not to abolish the early retirement scheme or halve the daily allowance. After all, everything is a political priority, but if you do not give the same economic weight, then there is an imbalance in how we count and how the policy ends up being carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132000	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132001	No, it's completely systematic, it did, too, when the SF was in government. Political priorities are made every day. You can choose for yourself what you want to spend the money on, but you can't talk about there being more money than there is. The SF understood this quite well when you were in government, but it has tricked more after you left the government, and that is probably where the problem lies in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132021	I thank the Minister for Finance and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. That was the end of question 2. I don't know if the mood got any better during number one. 2, than it was under No. 1, but at least I can thank both the Minister and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and move on to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132039	To the Minister for Justice, the question has been asked by Mr. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132040	Thank you. The question is: does the Minister consider it reasonable that Americans who come to Denmark and have been driving for more than 20 years in the United States should be allowed up to a new controlling driving test in Denmark when Russians or Koreans can simply exchange their driving licences for a Danish driving licence without having to go through the same test in Denmark, and when will the government get this obvious injustice corrected?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132107	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132109	No, I think it seems quite obvious that if Americans are fit to drive a car in the United States, I think they are also in Denmark, and of course I think it should be the case that Americans can drive a car in Denmark. Right now, the Ministry of Justice and the National Police have been in dialogue with the US authorities in relation to the formal and the application submitted by the United States in relation to the exchange for Danish driving licences, and as soon as there is a recommendation from the National Police in the Ministry of Justice, I hope, of course, that a positive decision can be taken so that Americans can drive a car in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132144	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132145	Well, thank you to the Attorney General. I would like to commend the Minister for that. It's not the first time I've asked this question. This is the first time I have put it to the current Minister for Justice, but I have actually put it to some of the former civil justice ministers, and also to the predecessor of the current Minister for Justice, both Mrs Karen Hækkerup, I believe, and also Mr Karen Hækkerup. Morten Bødskov. And on all occasions it has been promised that this was a very big problem which was intended to be resolved. So it seems that it has not shrunk political will, but you can just see that nothing has happened. The last time I asked down here in the Assembly Hall was for Mr. Morten Bødskov 11⁄2 years ago, and there, I would like to say, the then Minister of Justice boasted about the fact, and I would actually say that it was boastful that now he had to solve what civil justice ministers failed to solve. I commended the then Minister for Justice and said that we were very much looking forward to the fact that by autumn 2013 we had solved this problem. But now it is called spring 2015 and the problem is still not solved. So I would like to thank once again a Social Democratic Minister of Justice for agreeing that this is something that we are going to solve, but I also have to ask whether the Minister will then set a timetable on whether it will be resolved here during the spring, that is, before the summer break, and whether that timetable will last. For the previous promises we have made, both from civil justice ministers, I will honestly admit that I have to address the criticism of former civil justice ministers, but indeed also from the justice ministers of this government, that this problem does not seem to be resolved. And it is only a pity, then, when we need highly trained American workers to come to Denmark to work, that they will then have to go through a huge bureaucracy in terms of having their driving licences exchanged. So my question to the Minister for Justice is: well, thank you for the undertaking, but when can we expect it to actually be resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132338	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132340	I am not aware of the specific date, but I will agree entirely with the questioner. We need to be able to attract the Americans to a number of our Danish companies that have become global, or for that matter global companies that are located in Denmark. Therefore, new American citizens who come here to contribute and work should not, of course, experience that they cannot be allowed to drive. I think they will be able to find out, and that is why the issue here needs to be resolved as soon as possible. And as I said before, there is a dialogue between the National Police and the Ministry of Justice and the US authorities, and it will soon have to find its way out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132419	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132420	What puzzles me is that on 27 October last year the Minister signed a new decree on the exchange of foreign driving licences, in which the American part is not included. And I would like to say that if you believe the Minister, it is strange to make a new announcement and say that we are just about to solve this problem. I wonder why you didn't wait for the announcement until you had actually solved this problem. And I simply fear that this problem will not be solved in the time of this government, and I think that is really, really a pity, regardless of who might have the power of government after a parliamentary election. But we're gonna get that straightened out.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132500	The questioner is right, of course, that this has taken a long time, and I think that is regrettable. I think I might be looking at the discussion with a little different glasses, because I have been Minister for Employment for a number of years. That is why I have seen it from the other side: what it means when American citizens come here to work, contribute to Danish society and pay taxes. Then they would also like to be able to drive by car, which is why it must be possible to find a solution, and that is my approach. I don't want to go into the technique of it. There are people who are smarter than I am. I think it should be the case that this driving licence can be translated into a Danish context, and so it is now being worked on by the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132538	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132539	Thank you. Well, I'd like to sign for that. I am addressing the issue because I sincerely want to resolve it, and I have also raised it with changing governments, as I have said, also with a citizen. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice if the Minister is counting on this before the summer break. If the Minister in this Chamber can give that undertaking today, I would like to commend the Minister for that. Does the Minister expect, when one is so far in the process, that a new announcement has been issued and a solution has been found before the summer break? If the Minister can give that assurance here in Parliament today, I would like to commend the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132611	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132612	I would prefer to make commitments when I am sure that I am making my own decisions. And when it comes to engineering and internship and driving licences, I am not sure that I am the only actor to be in place. I can only say that the questioner is right in everything the questioner says about the importance of Americans being able to drive a car in Denmark, of course. I think it's a little embarrassing that it's had to take so long to find some clarification on this issue. It is important for Denmark to be able to attract skilled Americans to our labour market. The authorities are in dialogue on how we are doing this, and I hope for clarification as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132648	That was the last answer to question 3. Thank you, sir. Karsten Lauritzen. The next question is Mr. Peter Skaarup, and it is still the Minister of Justice who has to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132658	Thank you. It is this: what is the Minister's view that on an earlier occasion the Danish Parliament has given citizenship to a person against whom PET had warned, and will the Minister ensure, in the light of the terrorist attack in Copenhagen, that warnings from PET about specific individuals will have the consequence that Danish citizenship will not be granted?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132722	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132724	I think I can speak on behalf of all Danes when I say that we will never forget 14 and 15 February this year, when terror hit us in its toughest and harshest way a few kilometres from where we stand right now. And I think it is quite natural that, in the period following such a violent attack on our society, we are, of course, discussing many different aspects, including what is being raised by the questioner today. Nor should I fail to stress again that what has our full focus on the part of the government right now is to do all we can to ensure that the Danes have the security and security to which we are all entitled and entitled. But, of course, I would also like to answer the specific question here. The question now being raised here is about cases in which PET considers that an applicant for citizenship may be a threat to national security. I understand that this is such a somewhat old case which is being asked here and which has been discussed on various occasions in the past. It follows from Section 21 of the Circular on Naturalisation that a case will be submitted to the Parliamentary Committee on Birthrights if PET considers that an applicant may be a threat to the security of the country. The submission shall be made with the recommendation of the Ministry of Justice that the applicant in question be excluded from admission to a bill of birth certificate for a specified period. From there it is then up to the Folketing to make the decision and not me as minister. That procedure is followed in many cases, but not in cases where the applicant concerned may be covered by either the United Nations Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness or the Convention on the Child. The reason for this is that the stateless Convention requires the applicant to be found guilty of a crime against the security of the State, which means that the person concerned must have been convicted before the nationality can be denied. Under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the applicant cannot be denied citizenship in the situation referred to here. In other words, it would be contrary to the two conventions if persons who fulfil the conditions laid down in the conventions were to be excluded from admission to a bill on citizenship on the sole grounds on which the question is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132954	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225132955	Thank you. Of course, I fully agree with what the Minister started out with, namely that it was awful and abhorrent about the terrorist act that took place in Copenhagen. We must do what we can to combat terrorism at all levels and also seek to look at the areas where it leads to terrorism, in other words how we can prevent it from happening another time. One of the things that we in the Danish People's Party have an eye on is the practice that has arisen in the Danish Parliament, where citizenship is granted time and again by a majority to people in Denmark, even though PET warns against the person concerned. That is why we would like the government to indicate more than what the minister is saying now that it agrees that it is a problem that we allocate citizenship to people whom the police intelligence service regards as a danger to the country. It is actually totally logical that I should like to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not agree with it that it is really bad, that it is bad, that it is unfair and that it should be done to give citizenship to people who are being warned against by PET. Then it may be that the Minister says yes, that the Minister says yes, there are some conventions that oblige us regardless of our views on it. I would like to ask the Minister if it would not then be reasonable for the government to make contact with other countries with a view to having these conventions re-established or withdrawn from the conventions in question. Because it is probably unreasonable for Danish society and the security that must be that some ancient conventions, which are concerned with several of them, because they have been made right after World War II, are a barrier to us being able to say no to citizenship to persons warned against by the police intelligence service.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133156	I would like to make it very clear: I think it is a problem that the people concerned are given Danish citizenship. I'm against them getting it. It is only because we have an international obligation that the decision may be different from what the Ministry of Justice recommends as a starting point, namely that it should not be granted citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133215	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133217	I think the Minister is right to say that. I could then call for the government parties to vote against granting them citizenship. We can see from the votes that have been held there have been at least two, I know that the governing parties have nevertheless granted citizenship to the persons concerned, even though PET warns against them. That's one. I would like to know if the government will change its behavior in relation to it. I would also like to ask: Logically, when the Minister says that this is something the Minister is opposed to, that is, the granting of citizenship, will the government work to make the conventions that oblige us to give citizenship to people who are at risk of national security? That's why Special Branch warns against them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133305	I think it is quite obvious that people who may be a threat to our country's security should not, of course, be granted Danish citizenship, and that will also be the starting point for the Ministry of Justice's recommendation in relation to the further work of the Danish Parliament. What else would we almost say and think? I will certainly have no other position than that. If you are a danger to Danish security, you should not, of course, get Danish citizenship that should be clear and clear to everyone. Then there are some international obligations, and there is, of course, when you are a community governed by the rule of law. You can have many different views on them, you probably have them all over the world; but as long as the rules of the game look the way they do, Denmark respects them.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133347	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133349	First of all, a comment: if it is the government's refusal to grant citizenship to persons that PET warns against, why does the government not vote against granting them citizenship in the cases that have been? That is one question. The second issue concerns the international conventions. If the Minister says that they are opposed to citizenship, then it was not an idea to have the conventions drawn up in cooperation with countries which have similar views, for example. England, which has, after all, expressed scepticism about key parts of some of the conventions we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133425	However, it should only be the case that the Folketing makes a different decision from the one I am proposing here, if it is because it is, so to speak, forced to do so because of the international obligations we have, otherwise, of course, citizenship should not be granted on that basis, that is to say, that it may be a threat to our security. But the international rules of the game are the ones that we have and that we have been able to reach agreement on globally, and they respect and recognise Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133451	That was question 4. We move on to question 5. It is still Peter Skaarup who asks the question, and the Minister of Justice answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133500	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133501	It will then be a new question, although one might of course have liked to discuss the other further. What is the Minister's position on the fact that it is difficult to expel foreigners who have been convicted of terrorism in Denmark and who also have a deportment sentence, and will the Minister examine the possibility of having the exiled people expelled to countries other than the countries in which they are nationals and examine the possibility of allowing the exiled people who have been released and are living on a tolerated basis in Denmark to carry an electronic ankle chain as a condition for their release?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133536	I can also reply to that very briefly and precisely. It goes without saying that foreigners who have been convicted in Denmark, for example, of terrorism and subsequently expelled, are undesirable in Denmark, and they should not be here. There are a number of forms of crime that are so serious that you can be expelled from here, and you must of course leave the country. We cannot send people to torture or the death penalty. Here we are again bumping into the debate on our international obligations, but I would also like to make it clear that I do not want to send people directly to torture or the death penalty, no matter how abominable their crimes would be. There is also a reason why we do not have this kind of punishment in our own country. Then there is the second question: are there many questions on the question of whether or not we can get expulsions sent to countries other than their country of origin? After all, it is important to bear in mind that the obligation under international law that affects countries is to take their own nationals home. I would very much hate to have to impose Swedish, Afghan or American citizens on the Danish legal system, and I believe that most other countries feel the same way. I have already asked the authorities to look into the question of whether we can tighten the conditions further.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133709	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133710	But also in the light of what we have been discussing in the Danish Parliament over the last few days in connection with the Copenhagen terrorist attack, it is clear that we must look at all aspects whether there are things we can do better, whether there are things we can do differently. And one of the things that the Danish People's Party has been focusing on over time, which I think is a well-known case, is what we do to people who have been convicted of terrorism. Don't you think they'll be deported after they've been sentenced to exile? They do not, as we can see from the information available to us. Politiken could write last week that seven people convicted of terrorism in Denmark also in some of the very nasty cases that have been in connection with the planning of terror in Denmark are still gone. It is a little unclear how many are still in prison and how many are at large or at home. What we are calling for is for the government to ensure that the expulsion sentence given to the persons concerned is carried out. Several of them have another citizenship to fall back on, Moroccan, as it is with Said Mansour. There is a Jordanian who has Jordanian citizenship and Danish citizenship. In other words, you could easily, if that was what you wanted, ensure that Danish citizenship was taken away from the person concerned. My question to the Minister is: how much are we going to overlook in relation to these people who, once they have planned for terror or have carried out terrorism, might do so again? How much are we going to overlook? Is there no limit at all to the government how long we will accept that those people remain in Denmark, even if they have been sentenced to expulsion? Then the Minister says: Well, we cannot expel people to other countries. But it is a well-known fact that in some of the countries we are talking about here, Jordan or Morocco, for example, there are peaceful conditions in most of the country. This means that it will be possible to expel those concerned, perhaps not right to the area from which they originally came, but then to another area in the country. So will the government put pressure on the countries we are talking about here to receive their own citizens back so that they can be expelled from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133935	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133936	On the question of whether we should ignore terrorists in Denmark, the answer is no. And I cannot say it more precisely than I have already said: Terrorist aliens in Denmark who have been expelled are undesirable in Denmark. They have nothing to do here, and as soon as they can be repatriated, they must be repatriated.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133958	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225133959	Thank you for your answer. We fully agree with that in the Danish People's Party, and then I think the good question for the government is: should we not get something done about it? That is why I asked, and I would like to repeat that for the Minister: regardless of the conventions that we are party to, we could put pressure on the countries with which we cooperate in a number of areas, Jordan and Morocco, and say to them: you must take back those citizens who have committed terror on Danish soil. Will the government ensure that such pressure is put on the countries concerned through the diplomatic channels so that they take back their own citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134037	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134041	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134043	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134046	Once again, I must welcome the wonderfully good reply from the Minister, with which I fully agree. I am glad that the Minister agrees that pressure will be put on those countries. Now we come to the more serious and that is: is something going on? Is pressure being put on them to be expelled from the country? It does not look like it, because seven people are still staying in Denmark, some of the known convicted terrorists, for example. the person who attacked Kurt Westergaard in his own home. And the plans for terror against Kurt Westergaard were also laid down by people who have still not been expelled from the country. So I ask the Minister again: is the government going to do something about it? Is there anything happening on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134131	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134132	As far as the citizens who are on the verge of residence are concerned, no one is more cursed by the situation than I am as Minister of Justice, in other words a situation in which we have condemned, for example for terrorism or for other very serious crimes which have been expelled from Denmark and which we have to keep here because we cannot expel them. It is a very, very frustrating situation and it is only the international obligations and possible judgments, for example from the Supreme Court, that limit what I think we should do in relation to those concerned. Because they are deported and therefore do not have an errand in Denmark. Of course, we are doing everything possible for the authorities to put pressure on other countries when it comes to expulsion, both on the serious scale of terrorism and on others very, very serious crimes, but that applies at all. Foreigners who have been expelled and committed crime no longer have anything to do in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134231	That was the Minister for Justice's last answer to Question No. 5. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It's still gone to the Attorney General, but the questioner is new. It's now, sir. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134243	Thank you for the floor. My question is as follows: what will the Minister do about the fact that Islamists such as Said Mansour can preach their hate propaganda and incite violence and terror in prisons without the authorities taking action, and would it not be appropriate to stop it as part of the fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134306	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134307	Yes. It will. And, as I said at our press conference last week, and I would like to repeat it very much and thank you for the opportunity to do so, of course, we on the part of the government do not want Danish prisons to be incubators for radicalisation, extremism, propaganda machines or otherwise for animation to hatred, terrorist attacks or other attacks on humanity or the security of our country. Therefore, anti-radicalisation efforts in prisons are important. Detectives have a lot of tools today. They will have more opportunities with the anti-radicalisation plan that we have adopted together, and we therefore propose, with the terrorist package, that we look at the whole area and come up with new initiatives on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134351	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134352	It is not a secret that we would like to see people like Said Mansour and we have just mentioned it a while ago. I would like to hear what you intend to do, because now there was a story in the Ekstrabladet on 18 February that Said Mansour preached his hate and death propaganda, as the headline sounded, as far as I remember. What's interesting about our concepts is what you're going to do more precisely, because we think these people have been given a very, very long leash for a long time to preach this hate propaganda, and you can say that terror doesn't come from nothing. It is bad that it is going on in ordinary society, but even worse is it actually going on in prisons. I would like to know if the Minister for Justice could reveal what is going to be done in this particular case. What are you gonna do about this or about similar cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134507	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134508	But that's why it's an important task in criminal justice to have it contained and stopped. A number of initiatives are already under way in the field of criminal justice. Some of them actually work very well, but I think there may be a need for further initiatives. One of the things we have, of course, been looking at by the government is whether we need to separate more prisoners so that there is simply less scope for conversation and dialogue with each other in areas that concern this. This could be one of the specific examples which I think there is reason to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134557	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134558	Well, of course I'm glad to hear that. In all my naivety I actually expected Said Mansour to be isolated, knowing what else he has said, so that he could at least not have the opportunity to propagandise for his hateful views. It may then just be surprising that it has not happened, but I am of course glad if it is something that is in the government's deliberations that it is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134627-2	Now it is probably a good idea for the further movement of the entire legal society that I, as Minister of Justice, do not award either the use of isolation prisons, criminal cells or exclusion from communities in Danish prisons. It's a matter of criminal justice when you're serving your sentence. This does not change the fact that I believe we need a more general political discussion on how to deal with the problems of radicalisation in prisons, and we are focusing on several different things. We just made a deal with, among other things. The Danish People's Party, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the SF, and the Liberal Alliance are also involved. There are a number of initiatives to prevent the radicalisation we see in prisons, and that is one of them. using exit programs and other things. As long as the problem is there, our focus will also be there, and our willingness to find new methods is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134726	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134728	I am fully aware of the limits of the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. Of course, I couldn't dream of challenging them. But what I just mean by that is that it is not only in Denmark that this kind of terrorist attack has been experienced. And I find it extremely worrying that people like Said Mansour, who should at least have been deported to Morocco, could be given the opportunity to use this kind of hate propaganda. I find that deeply worrying, because terror has a place of fire, and it is in this form of preaching that it starts.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134806	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134808	I believe that the vast majority of us who live in Denmark reject the terrorist attacks last weekend and are deeply concerned about how we can prevent something similar in the future. And that is why all sources must be able to resist our democratic values and undermine the society that we have built for generations and which speaks for extremism and radicalisation, seen, analysed and countered. That is why the fight against radicalisation in prisons is, of course, an essential part of the terrorist package that the government has just presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134852	That was the last answer to Question No 4 by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the It's still gone, the Minister of Justice, and it's still gone, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134901	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134901-2	Thank you. My question is: what will the government do in response to the terrorist attack to safeguard the Jews, and here is primarily thinking of securing Caroline School and the synagogue in Krystalgade?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134914	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225134919	It is quite clear after the terrorist attacks in Copenhagen on 14 and 15 February that the Jewish minority in Denmark is a vulnerable population group and therefore deserves our all solidarity, attention and their own security. We have seen it now in a number of European countries that people who simply live their lives practice their religion, are anchored in their own cultural traditions, the victims of terrorism. And we have now also seen it in our own streets around the synagogue. We must do what we can to protect our Jews. We must insist that they are part of Denmark. We must ensure that their children can go to school, that the services can be held and that the confirmation of a 12-year-old should not be interrupted again by a terrorist. That is why the safety of the Danish Jews is important. I note with satisfaction, I would like to say that the Copenhagen Police just a few days ago announced that the very increased security preparedness for a number of Jewish locations and interests in Copenhagen continues, and I think that sounds like an exceptionally wise decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135037	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135038	So the reason why I originally asked the question I am aware that the security has been raised in there over the last few days here, and I am glad that it was here in Weekendavisen last Friday that one could read a heartbreaking speech by Martin Krasnik about the lack of security that was at the synagogue and which was also the basis for this attack. I myself was, I must say, surprised and upset because I did not really think it would fit when we knew about the situation of the Jews in Europe, even in recent years here; the alarm bells should, I think, have called something earlier in order to secure the Jews. I know this is a difficult issue and I do not have to step into anything, but I hope that the Minister for Justice will at least agree that we must do what we can in the future to secure our Jewish fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135141	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135143	I do not think this is a difficult question, and I am happy to experience the enormous support of the entire Danish community, not only for our Jewish minorities in Denmark, but also for their continued security and security. Therefore, it is of course an extraordinary responsibility of the Danish authorities to provide all the security and security they can about both Jewish locations and interests and, of course, our Jewish minorities in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135208	Sir. Christian Langballe
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135211	I don't have any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135216	Okay. Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe. Thank you, too, to the Minister of Justice in this instance. That was the end of Question 7. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8, and it is requested by Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135229	Thank you, sir. Great Chairman. I have a question for the Minister for Employment: what is the Minister's position on the ILO's criticism of the working conditions in Qatar and Qatar's response to the criticism since June 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135243	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135248	As I have also replied in a written reply back in January, the facts reported from Qatar are certainly worrying and, of course, not least for migrants working there. Of course, I support one hundred percent of the work of the ILO. The conditions for workers must, of course, be in order. This is true both in Denmark, but also preferably in the big world. What can be said is that Qatar is now experiencing high levels on the ILO agenda, and I think that is a good thing. There was a working conference in June last year in which Qatar had to explain itself in response to the criticism that had been levelled at its workers. Denmark expressed concern in a Nordic government statement about working and living conditions, and the reactions of Qatar were that the government would address the problems and challenges. Qatar also committed itself to international standards and to cooperating with the ILO. A number of workers therefore chose to lodge a complaint with the ILO Governing Council during the conference. The complaints are made on a slave-like basis for migrant workers and again on a lack of labour supervision, and thus Qatar is not complying with the two ILO conventions which it has actually ratified. The ILO Governing Council decided at its meeting in autumn 2014 that the plan would be continued. The European Union, including Denmark, naturally supported that resolution and called on Qatar to cooperate with the ILO. Qatar was given the opportunity to comment, but the complaint was not discussed. Qatar therefore confined itself to saying that it was prepared to cooperate with the ILO and to provide all the information requested. Denmark therefore supports the ILO's criticism of Qatar and has also taken an active part in the criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135437	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135438	Thank you for your answer. I am well aware that not least the Minister for Employment has been active before the ILO raised the issue and the response to Qatar. The problem is, of course, that Qatar has not complied with this in relation to questions of labour inspection or working conditions for migrant workers at their construction sites. For Qatar's reaction has been that yes, you observe all things, but no matter what the ILO says they do not. So I would like to hear one more thing: what will be done to Qatar when they do not respond to the criticism of the ILO?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135524	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135524-2	Now it will be a mix-up with what is in the next question, as Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr has put forward, and that is very understandable, because they are close to each other. The real answer is, of course, that in many ways the ILO is a strong and powerful organisation that affects other countries, also in relation to things in Denmark. But the ILO does not have much scope for sanctions against a country which does not want to; one has the very famous naming and shaming, that is to say, that one can exhibit a country which has been very much done in relation to Qatar. It is, of course, in fact, as I think Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr also knows, both the strength and the weakness of international organizations.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135613	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135614	That may be true, but I still think that there are large countries, not least the EU countries, which actually have more power over Qatar. So even if it is not the ILO, I think we should do something else. And I'm just wondering. For Denmark has, of course, been among the countries most advanced in the shoes of Qatar in terms of their working conditions, not least for their migrant workers. So I think something more should be done so far. But we can come back to that in the second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135649	I have to say with regard to doing something more, that what I can answer here today is the ILO part. That's where I'm gonna have to say to Mr. Knox. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, based on the fact that it is the ILO part that we are talking about because there are so many other things, and I also understand that there is consultation on this with other ministers at a later stage. I think that Denmark has used all the occasions that have been to support the ILO, both directly but also in the context of the European Union. So Denmark has not been on the slow side.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135718	I have a little feeling that Mr. Knox... Mr Jørgen Arbo-Baeh basically wants to move on to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 9. Yes.). So even if there was one more round in Question No. 8, we can skip it and go straight to Question No 8. 9, and then the Minister can have the opportunity to give his full answer to it. So we shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135730	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135742	Yes, I have put a question to the Minister, which is: if Qatar does not comply with the ILO obligations regarding migrant workers' working conditions, what further steps will the Minister take?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135748	Yeah, and now, of course, it's gonna be a bit of a repeat. There should be no doubt that Qatar is committed to the conventions that it has actually ratified, and I have also replied to the Employment Committee some time ago. That is why a report will be prepared for the next management meeting, which will then be, I understand, in March. Here we can then assess whether further steps are possible and what decisions will be taken. There are some options for reaction, but very, very few sanctions. As I said in an earlier reply, much of the work of the ILO is about dialogue and cooperation, and also about what is perhaps not particularly Danish termed naming and shaming, that is to say, showing that a country is doing some things, and also having a public and global debate about it. There is only to say that the work is supportive of Denmark. It is clear that we should not ignore the fact that no country and no government will like to be faced with such a complaint here and that it is put high on the ILO agenda. It is important, I think, regardless of which country or regime it is, and I think it is important that it continues. That is why I also expect Qatar to cooperate with the ILO in this matter, and we will, of course, take an active part on the Danish side. As I said before, we have taken advantage of the opportunities that have been available to play this field, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135919	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225135920	I think there are a lot of people in this country who have found out where Qatar is in the world. Because it turns out that Qatar has treated its migrant workers worse than bad. We are talking about people building all sorts of sports arenas, not least towards the World Cup in 2022. That is why I shall try to put a question to the Minister. The ILO will present a report in March, and then it says that the Council will have the opportunity to decide on the need for further steps in this matter. I would like to know whether the Minister for Employment has any concrete proposals for further steps in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140002	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140003	First of all, let me say that I fully agree with Mr Seligman. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr in that some of what we have been portrayed is terrible relationships. I am therefore delighted that, in connection with a major sporting event in Qatar, it filled something in the Danish media, and I believe that it filled something in the world's media. So there is full focus on it, and so should there be. It is as I have indicated in my reply that there will be a report on this in March. What I can just say is that the steps which the ILO believes it is possible to take will, of course, support Denmark at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140044	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140045	It was actually a question of what the Minister thinks about it, rather than what the ILO thinks about it. But I'm gonna keep asking. I find it strange that we have a situation in Qatar that no human being, at least not in Denmark, supports. And we are talking about some who promote themselves to the world community by doing all those great sporting events, both handball, athletics, swimming, football etc. So, if I understand the Minister correctly, he says that the ILO cannot be used to sanction Qatar internationally. Is that the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140125	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140126	Partly, yes. It is the case that the ILO, as the questioner knows, is indeed a cooperation and, as I said before, the ILO has relatively few sanctions. What they saw trying is dialogue. And, of course, once conventions have been signed, we are also obliged to do so. The problem is perhaps a little that where Denmark has signed 72 conventions, Qatar, as I recall, has signed six conventions, at least a very low number of conventions. That is the way it is in the international work, when we are just talking about the ILO part, because it is the only thing I am talking about here today that can be other things, as you know, and I know that there is a consultation on the fact that these are the instruments that the ILO has. And what I have said a few times now is that the instruments available to the ILO support Denmark's use of the ILO.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140217	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140218	But it's weird. In that answer to me he writes in the end: Denmark has thus already played an active role and will also do so in the future. But the Minister's answer is that nothing can be done through the ILO. I think that is strange, because we have to do something to Qatar, otherwise it can happen in all sorts of other areas. We know, of course, that there are other areas which, it has to be said, are bad in terms of human rights ■ it may be in China or in Russia or anywhere. As a starting point, I think the most important thing is to put a stop to Qatar's repression of human rights against their migrant workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140304	Then it is the Minister for the final answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140306	But I do not think there is any difference in the condemnation of what is happening in Qatar, between Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr and me. There's no difference. What I am just trying to say is what instruments the ILO has. It is, of course, an international organisation of the United Nations and they have the instruments that they have. And what I'm just saying is that I'm prepared to use them, I almost said, the ultimate limit. But there are no more tools in the toolbox than there are, and when it comes to being able to go in firmly, very few are in that toolbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140341	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. The next question is to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Conditions of Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140355	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister consider it reasonable that Aarhus Municipality should receive 231 per cent. more quota refugees this year than last year, when one of the richest cities in the world, Copenhagen, is not going to accept a single quota refugee in 2015, and what does the government intend to do to remedy this obvious imbalance in the distribution of quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140420	Thank you for the question. It follows from the rules of the Integration Act on housing placement that quotas are agreed or set for the number of refugees to be accommodated in the individual regions and municipalities in a given year. The quotas shall be determined on the basis of the estimates of the number of refugees expected to be granted a residence permit for the year in question. If the regions and municipalities do not enter into voluntary agreements, the Foreigners' Board sets the quotas, and this is done on the basis of a mathematical model, which among other things. takes into account the population and how many foreign citizens the municipality already has. In practice, the model implies that individual municipalities should not, as a starting point, receive refugees, the so-called 'zero municipalities', to which the questioner also rightly refers. However, the municipalities have the opportunity to agree on a different distribution from that which the mathematical model will give, for example. so that so-called zero municipalities are to receive refugees. There is currently a process going on, actually right now, between the municipalities, where you look at exactly that. That is why we have also postponed the deadline by which the voluntary agreements should be put in place. The aim of the quota system is to ensure a more even geographical distribution of new refugees and thus also, overall, a more even distribution of the integration task between municipalities. In the end, of course, the goal is the successful integration of the individual foreigner. I also believe that we have a good and appropriate quota system and I do not intend to change it. I am, of course, very aware of the current challenges in the municipalities, and the government has therefore also just reached an agreement with KL to facilitate the task for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140628	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140629	Well, thank you for the answer. I do have a very clear position, and I think the Minister also shares that view, because the Minister has a pre-knowledge of the City of Copenhagen, which is quite extensive, and therefore the Minister knows very well that the economy of the City of Copenhagen is quite good for saying the least. In fact, it is so good that it is one of the absolutely richest municipalities at all. There is progress, there is growth, there is building new apartments and there are areas etc., and that is then a zero municipality. Then we have a municipality such as Aarhus, which is now experiencing that this year alone they will have to receive over 500 refugees over 500 refugees in a municipality which, of course, also has growth, but which absolutely does not have anything similar to the growth rate of the City of Copenhagen, which will receive 0, and at a rate of increase compared to last year of 231 per cent. Well, that sounds crazy in percentages. Therefore, I just do not understand that the government is not willing to listen when both Aarhus Municipality and Odense Municipality and other municipalities that receive many refugees say: Help us now to get something that we believe is a balanced distribution. I do not understand why the government does not say: okay, it may well be there is a good argument here; instead of thinking about old historical figures, perhaps we should also look at who really has the money to respond to the challenges posed by more refugees. I don't quite understand. Having said that, of course I heard the small, minimal opening that was in the Minister's reply. I don't know if it's such a mouse hole opening. I hope it is much bigger than a mouse hole opening when the Minister says that different things are being examined. I'd like to hear more about that, because I think it sounds a little exciting. It may well be that I am now extremely over-optimistic, but if there is an opening here, I think we should certainly hear more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140820	It is fair enough that we do not understand it, and it should not separate us in any way whatsoever. I do not think it is possible to make a link between the richest municipality in Copenhagen and the zero municipality at the same time. First of all, I think these rules are excellent. The announcement was made under the previous government, and then the rules were found to be excellent, and so does the current government. My point is that we have moved the date when the Immigration Authority is to register is that the municipalities themselves can decide with each other how they want to fill in the number of refugees. As far as I am aware, this can also be done with regard to the zero municipalities, and we must be allowed to do so. We therefore have municipal autonomy, and I am very confident that the municipalities will show solidarity with each other and find a solution. Having said that, I would like to say that this is a challenge that we all face, because we have rarely seen the flows of refugees as we are currently doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140930	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225140932	Unfortunately, it seems that I was too optimistic, but I had feared that too, because we did not hear much about this opening that was coming. So when the Minister starts to involve the previous government, it is important to make it clear that there has been a sharp increase in the number of quota refugees since this was discussed last many years ago, and that is why it is a completely different situation that we now have, because we have enormous pressure in terms of numbers in relation to quota refugees. So I can only appeal to the Minister to listen. I also understand that the radical mayor of Copenhagen actually wants to open up to refugees himself, but it is evident that the Socialist mayor is opposed. So you can't get some kind of radical study circle or something to push on a little? You can only hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141020	That is quite correct and I apologize, I am laughing at the remark about the study circles we might be able to make. But it is quite right, as the questioner also says, that we are in a different situation. And we do. We are in a completely different situation in which we have not seen such a large flow of refugees since the Second World War, but that does not, in fact, change the distribution. Now the questioner also says that I have a past in the City of Copenhagen, but it doesn't mean that I have a special interest in the City of Copenhagen, nor do I assume that the questioner has a special interest in the municipality of Aarhus unless one is set up there. Actually, I don't know anything about that, but you could have a suspicion. I think we have to see it in general terms, and we have just reached an agreement with the KL. I will come back to that agreement, because it is a really, really good agreement, and when the KL says that we can do this, we have to show solidarity, because this is a task that is rooted in really, really unhappy conflicts, then of course I also have confidence that they can and they are doing it, but that is a challenge, and there is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141125	Michael Aastrup Jensen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141127	I understand that the Minister does not know where I am standing. I think most people in this room don't know that I'm from East Jutland. I do not think that most people do not know that I have a municipal background such as this. Former mayor of Randers. The Minister obviously does not, but then the Minister knows it now. That is why I know a little about how and how these municipalities now operate, and I know a little about how and how we can not just sit and appeal to unity and everything else if the government is not interested in doing something concrete and proactive in this area. That is why I have to admit that I think we are getting a little too many non-answers and that we are just trying to wash our hands from the government. In view of the number of refugees we are talking about, I think that you are not quite your job adultly, I apologize, I say that in relation to cities such as the United Kingdom. Aarhus, who will face a huge, incalculable problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141220	However, what the rapporteur says about us doing nothing is factually wrong. We have just made an agreement with KL, which among other things. This makes it possible to amend the law on plans, which, among other things, makes it possible to amend the law on plans. This means that it is possible to create, and some people already do, housing exchanges, which include: to help house refugees. We want to change the rules so that you can be more in the same accommodation, and all that must actually help to take the pressure from the municipalities. The KL has made this deal with us. Besides that, they've got 200 million. kr. extra precisely to alleviate some of the pressure there is. And again, it is a great challenge, and I think it is a pity somewhere that the rapporteur, when he is so concerned about where people have been and where they have had a past, does not also take the trouble to look at that agreement, because it is actually a very good agreement. That's what the government thinks, and that's what KL thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141320	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Conditions by Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141329	Thank you. The question here is: what is the Minister's position that Aarhus Municipality, which is currently struggling to provide sufficient housing for its inhabitants, should find new housing for 516 quota refugees this year, and does the Minister consider it necessary to do something in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141347	Thank you again for the question. This kind of looks like the previous question, so we'll be kind of in the same shades. The large number of refugees that we see in Denmark during this time is due, as I mentioned earlier, to the fact that globally we see the largest flows of refugees since the Second World War. We are in a very unusual situation and it challenges all municipalities. Of course, there is no doubt about that. When more refugees apply to Denmark and get asylum here, by their very nature, more refugees also come to the municipalities. How the distribution takes place has been mentioned in my answer to the previous question, but I am clearly and fully aware that this is a huge challenge facing the municipalities at the moment. As the author also said, you must find accommodation for the new refugees. That is why I am also, as I mentioned earlier, and it is here that the nuances are very pleased that the government reached this agreement at the beginning of this year on a common understanding between the National Association of Municipalities and the government exactly in this area. Again I want to repeat: The municipalities have said themselves and have repeated that I have seen a number of places that they are willing to take on this great work that you need to do. That, of course, is also the basis, and that is the nature of the matter, and it is something in which both parties have to contribute. I am thinking both of the KL and of the government, of course. With the initiatives contained in the understanding, we have just made it easier for the municipalities to carry out this task of housing. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, more money comes with it. I believe that this, together with the housing market, will help ease the pressure on the municipalities. But pressure is there, and it's not just in Aarhus. It is in very, very many municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141557	Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141559	It is not in Copenhagen, so it is not in all the municipalities in the country, and that is the whole problem. I clearly recognise that there are a large number of municipalities in addition to Aarhus, in addition to Randers, in addition to other East Jutland cities, which receive very, very many refugees. We hear it from Aarhus, which is also a red municipality. You say clearly: there is something wrong with this distribution, because we are receiving a very, very large number of refugees. So we have both Aarhus and Odense and probably a large number of other municipalities. I saw that the municipality of Rudersdal was also out to say that there is something about this model that isn't connected. If we take Aarhus, you are actually currently standing and having problems finding enough housing for disabled people. Up to 200 disabled homes are missing in Aarhus Municipality. It is therefore, just to put it in relief, a municipality which has huge problems in terms of providing enough housing. It is a municipality with a district, Gellerup, which is one of the country's very poorest residential areas, where most vulnerable citizens live outside the labour market. And in general, it is a municipality which, we say, is severely tested in terms of integration efforts. So these are the ones who are now experiencing a rate of increase of just one year of 231 per cent. So, I have to say, and then you can say so much that an agreement has been made with the National Association of Municipalities, and that you have to have solidarity between the municipalities of the country and all sorts of other things... that the world just doesn't work that way. Well, it is Aarhus who is now facing a completely incalculable problem. Then they can't just pick up the phone and call Copenhagen, believe me, they've probably tried and say: Can't you take some of them? 'Cause they're just gonna get a no. That's what we see. We can hope that the study circle will perhaps be in the City of Copenhagen, but the reality so far is that the Social Democratic mayor and the majority in Copenhagen say no. And if the government doesn't want to do anything, we're gonna be stuck with these 516 refugees who have to find somewhere to live in Aarhus, while you can't even find accommodation for those who need it, among other things. in the field of disability. I think we have a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141804	We clearly have a challenge. I do not entirely share the questioner's approach to our colleagues around the municipalities. To call them study circles etc. is to talk down to them, I think. They face some major challenges. We have municipal autonomy and, as I have said, we have changed on the date when agreements can be reached among ourselves. You have ample opportunity to do that. If you do not find a level, it is clear that then the Foreigners' Board comes in and helps out from the mathematical model that is. And the mathematical model has not, in fact, been changed. It has not changed for the different municipalities, it is the same. The only difference is the number, and it is true that the number is very high right now. Although they have a lot of challenges, Aarhus receives about 500 refugees, but that is also true in other municipalities. There are a lot of municipalities facing these challenges, and that's exactly why we've made this deal with KL. Then it may well be that the questioner thinks that the world does not look like that, but nevertheless it is the channels that are when you make agreements. There are no deals behind and such. That is how it is now, as it was last year, and that is how it has been for the last ten years and longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141928	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225141930	I understand that the Minister thinks I am speaking down to the local politicians. On the contrary, perhaps it is the Minister who is speaking down, because I am saying here precisely that I clearly recognise the enormous challenges facing the municipalities which are experiencing these rates of growth in refugees over 231 per cent. etc. What, on the other hand, provokes me and a large number of others, whether current municipal politicians or people who have been, is that the absolute richest municipality in the country, the largest municipality in the country, should receive zero. I think it is to talk down to all the others who are facing this completely incalculable problem, to say that we do not care about that, because it has always been the case in history and so on. But history changes when we have such absurdly large figures as we are doing at the moment in the area of refugees. Then history changes. Then it's no use just sitting around holding onto the old-fashioned mindset.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142024	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142025	I've been standing in this hall for 31⁄2 years, accepting §20 questions. I have rarely seen that it was simply not correctly spoken. This is the first time this has happened. I have not said that it was a study or a circle teaching, and referred to the colleagues over at Copenhagen City Hall. Then I think you should rewind the film a little bit and see this question again, because that's exactly what was said. And that's the way it is. On the contrary, I think that we should look at what solutions there are, what solutions we have produced. We have done so with the KL, and we have done so with the politicians who are in the KL. After all, they have told us with open eyes: we can solve this challenge. And I definitely think you should sign for that. We made a great deal. The economy is accompanied by concrete measures, changes to the law on planning, the housing market and so on. That's exactly what it's gonna do to solve the challenge out there. But it is quite interesting that I have not heard at all a single example of a solution from the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142140	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142143	Unlike the Minister, I have actually been in Parliament for ten years, and I have never heard such an absurd answer as that which I have just heard never in the ten years I have been in Parliament. To hear a minister say that I should have said something that I never said, first of all, and then start calling it untrue I have never seen before! Frankly, I think that we should be too good at such vocabulary, throwing things at each other and then starting to talk about what it really is about. It may be that the Minister feels that the Minister has a bad case, but then the Minister should rather admit it than try to throw mud. I just have to admit that I don't understand why the Minister isn't trying to take this a little more seriously than trying to throw such untruths in my head.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142229	Now I feel that the questioner is getting a little upset. I have just come up with some concrete solutions. I haven't heard a single answer, nothing but hernia. I'm just gonna come by and tell you we made a deal. It's due diligence. We have made an agreement with KL, where there are economics and where there are actually also good solutions, the housing exchange, amendment of the planning law and so on that you can also change the accommodation. These are solutions that address precisely the challenge that exists, solutions to the problems that exist, the challenges that exist. And I do not hear the questioner say that once, only madness that the City of Copenhagen will not take anyone. By the way, I know that the City of Copenhagen has just put it on the agenda. You take this seriously, contrary to the questioner. It's just acidity and percentage calculations. These are people that this is about. I think the questioner somewhere forgets that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142332	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. The next question is to the Minister for Food by Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142344	Thank you. And the question is: Why has the Minister in a press release of 10 June 2014 chosen to comment on guilt issues in a case of finding illegal antibiotics in a pig herd near Viborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142356	The Minister of Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142357	The matter is quite serious. These are 50 kg of illegal medicine, tetracycline, an antibiotic found in a pig herd near Viborg. It is very, very serious because such medicines can, of course, be dangerous when they come from a place where we do not have the ability to control it. This is serious because it can harm our exports if we do not manage the consumption of medicines in Denmark; it is of course also serious because it is a breach of the fight we are conducting against antibiotic resistance. That is why I was also pleased to see that Torsten Schack Pedersen asked the question about this matter until I read the question and found out that it was not a question of how we can do more to prevent this terrible type of incident, but that the question is of a completely different nature. I can of course assure you that I have not dealt with a matter of guilt; I have made a generic observation as to why this is a very serious situation. This has, of course, been done in connection with a very specific case where there is a man who has been reported to the police, and there is nothing wrong with that. I would have liked the support of the Left in this case. Fortunately, I have received it from Danish pig farmers and others in agriculture who, like me, are very concerned to distance myself from this incident. It would really suit the Left if the politicians of the Left, here at Castle, too, would distance themselves from this kind of very serious incident.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142530	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142531	I have to say that, unfortunately, the Minister does not speak. The Minister may be aware of what has been going on in the field of taxation, because, as the tax rapporteur, I have dealt with a large number of matters relating to the legal certainty of citizens. We have witnessed far too many cases in which fundamental principles of legal certainty have been trampled underfoot, and that is also why the press release issued by the Minister for Food in this case gives rise to some reflections on legal certainty issues. It is not a question of us not being active in the fight to ensure a high quality of food. We are in agreement on that, but we must do so while respecting and playing according to the rules that apply in a community governed by the rule of law. That is why I am rather sorry that the Minister for Food is not responding to my question. After all, the press release issued by the Minister is a little special, because there was a draft that the FDA itself would send one out; but then the Minister chose to take an active part in the matter and express himself through the press release. That is why it is also reasonable for the Minister of Food to answer for his wording in the press release. When the Minister says in the press release that he is appalled that one can behave so irresponsiblely as a pig producer, I have to say that it does not leave a question of guilt. The Minister is outraged and finds that the pig producer in question is and it can be said that the matter will not be less interesting if it was immediately possible to identify, with a little rapid search of a journalist, who the Minister of Food designated as guilty. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister to use the opportunity here today to make it clear that there is no question of guilt and that it is ultimately the courts that decide on it. In this connection, will the Minister be more careful about statements on guilt issues in similar cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142741	Some of the things that may have confused Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, was that I replied very briefly and quite precisely, namely no to having spoken on the issue of guilt. I don't think that can be done more precisely. I made a generic, that is, general statement about this type of relationship. I wish the Left would do the same, I really wish. Legal certainty was asked. Yes, but what about legal certainty for all those farmers, which, fortunately, is a long way off, the vast majority, not to say almost everyone who complies with the rules? What about their legal certainty if we don't hit this hard? That's why I've also insisted on being active in this case, and that's why I've insisted on following it to the point that the FDA is, of course, acting offensively in this type of case. The case has not yet been judged, but, as the press release also shows, this is a matter which has been reported to the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142834	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142836	I hope that in future the Minister will ensure that the wording of similar press releases is somewhat clearer, because I have to say that the wording there is leaves no doubt that the Minister believes that the person who is suspected is also guilty. But if you look further in the press release, are there other things that you can choose to ask the Minister about, and I am going to do so, because when the Minister writes that the checks that took place were due to the fact that, in checking a pigs for slaughter, traces of an illegal antibiotic had been found, will the Minister confirm today that it is not quite correct, because it is without the need to become very technical, so that the type of antibiotic that was found in the sample in question is included in and is a whole legal part of a fully legal antibiotic? And would the Minister then say that the wording was not correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225142928	I cannot go into a specific case here, but I have to promise that this man has found himself a lawyer in Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. This kind of thing is not going to happen here in the Parliamentary Chamber. What I can relate to is, of course, my utterances, which I stand by completely, which I can only say for the third or fourth time now, that the Left obviously does not support, which I wonder, since Danish pig producers have been out to say virtually the same thing as I have said. Listen, we are dealing with a very serious matter; it is 50 kg of illegal medicine from China that could have ended up in pigs that could have ended up on the table of Danish consumers. We have to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143018	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143019	It is well known that the Minister for Food would like to speak out, because I have already stated once that efforts to ensure a high quality of our food production are not in dispute. So don't paint this fake picture. I just think that the Minister must stand by what the Minister has done and what the Minister has said in this matter, namely that the rule of law applies not only in the area of taxation but also in the area of food. I hope the Minister will stand by that. That is why I am surprised that the Minister is now saying that he is not going to deal with the specific issue, because the Minister was busy doing so in the media. He was busy publishing a press release. There it is just strange that one of the conditions described by the Minister in his press release is that I am quite sure that the Danish Food Authority today can confirm that it is not in accordance with the truth. It would only suit the Minister if he would admit that what has been written is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143116	Every time, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen has the floor, and he says that I am not speaking about it, which is strange, because I am very, very clear: the rules have been observed, I am not going to go into the specific procedure, which I have not done at any time. I don't see how it can get any clearer. What is not clear, however, is the motives of Torsten Schack Pedersen in this matter. What's this about? Why can't we agree to distance ourselves from the fact that there are 50 kg of illegal drugs that have landed in a pig herd in Jutland? In other words, if a food minister were not to distance himself from it, there would be something to criticise.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143201	The question is closed. But the next question is also to the Minister for Food from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143209	Has the Minister, with his involvement in the case, described in a press release of 10 June 2014 the assurance that the case has been dealt with in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on legal certainty in the application of coercive measures and disclosure obligations by the administration, so that the investigation of the control action was transferred to the police immediately after the finding of the illegal antibiotics?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143226	The Minister of Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143227	Yes, the case has been dealt with in accordance with Article 9 of the Legal Code.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143234	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143235	But I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about his reply. For the Minister writes, again in his press release, that the case will However, if you now read Section 9 of the Legal Protection Act, you see that it says that if an individual or legal person is reasonably suspected of having committed a criminal offence, coercive action against the suspect in order to provide information on some of the matters covered by the suspicion may be carried out only in accordance with the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Then I am surprised that the case will not be handed over to the police as soon as you find 50 kilos of illegal antibiotics. Why, then, is the case not handed over to the police, who, according to the law of legal certainty, are to investigate cases where there is a suspicion of criminality? The Minister must be very specific about this, because the Minister has been busy speaking to the media. Then I just ask whether the Minister thinks that as soon as the food control finds the illegal antibiotics, they will immediately hand the case over to the police so that it takes place in accordance with Article 9 of the law on legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143348	I'm being accused of talking about it almost every time Mr. Knox... Torsten Schack Pedersen has the floor, despite the fact that I reply very briefly and precisely every time. I've asked my board of directors, my authority, have you followed Section 9 of the Legal Code? Yes, they do. That is, of course, the only information I can provide, since I was not present on the farm myself. I'm not with that too, I think, the question of "Every time checks are carried out on the Danish farms." Again, I would just like to say at the end, when I have just 30 seconds more, that it is quite amazing, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen here has become a lawyer for a man. He accuses me of going down in a specific case and in a procedure which I have not gone down in, but which Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen is dealing here with all the details at a level of knowledge which I wonder where Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen got off.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143442	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143444	It is well known that the Minister of Food resorts to attack when he is under pressure and tries to sneak around the centre. This is about legal certainty. I thought the Minister understood that. And it's about whether things have gone by the book. To that I have to say that it is difficult to see that the Minister is focusing on it, because he says it has happened according to the book. Then I would just like to know what the rules are for, when the Danish Food Safety Authority, the Food Control Agency, will hand over a case to the police, i.e. what guidelines apply when you are on inspection and find facts that indicate that there is criminality, so that there is a guarantee that Article 9 of the Law on legal certainty is complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143528	The Minister of Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143529	I cannot quote Section 9 of the Legal Code. What I have been asked is: are the rules respected? Of course, I have asked my system whether the rules have been complied with, and they have answered yes. That's the opposite of answering around. That is to answer quite directly. When we have the discussion, I reserve the right to marvel at Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen's commitment to this case and the level of detail he's asking about. So I would like to ask Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, whether he's in personal contact with this person that this is about, and whether it's his case that he's standing here and arguing.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143600	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143601	After all, it would be nice if the Minister for Food would address the questions that are being asked. I will look forward to it if the situation is reversed. Then the Minister for Food, as a member of parliament, can ask all the questions he wants to put to a future government. But the key point is whether the Minister has any assurance that things have happened according to the book. I ask what it is that is needed when there is a finding of illegal antibiotics in order for the case to be handed over to the police. The Minister will not answer that question. When does the law on legal certainty enter into force? The legal security law is quite precise: when there is a suspicion of a criminal offence, the case must be transferred. The Minister will not give an answer to that question, and I understand that because the matter was not passed on. The police didn't get involved in the case. It was the food control itself that proposed it. I just cannot understand why the Minister is not concerned with legal certainty, because if something has been done illegally, it must be punished, and then the guilty parties must be tried in the courts. However, the Minister is busy engaging in the matter and making clear indications of the Minister's perception of guilt issues, and now the Minister is trying to evade it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143658	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143659	No, on the contrary, I can repeat that I believe the eighth or ninth time that most of the followers have understood the answer, but apparently not the questioner that I am not down in the specific proceedings in this case, so I do not know what has happened. But I have asked my system: has it been done according to the rules? Yes, it is. What I know is that the man in question has been reported to the police. The questioner may not answer if he does not want to answer it.I acknowledge that the questioner should not be asked, but it is interesting to know whether Torsten Schack Pedersen is in personal contact with this man, and whether it is his case that he is standing here in the Chamber and presenting himself to a minister who, by its very nature, cannot enter into the specific proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143734	Thank you. The question is closed, and thank you to the Minister for Food. The next question is to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143746	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that, in order to obtain legitimate compensation under EU Passenger Regulation No. 261 of 2004 considers it necessary to use legal aid firms and thereby to use 25%. of the compensation agreed by the EU and does the Minister consider it reasonable that, in practice, given the costs associated with court proceedings, there are no other options for the passenger?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143814	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225143816	Let me start by saying that I do not see the need to use legal aid firms if an aircraft is delayed or cancelled. There are good opportunities, and also free of charge, for the rightful compensation, for example. By complaining to the Traffic Authority. I think it is a pity if the general belief is that it is only possible to obtain compensation in the courts, and it is also a pity if the consumer believes that the only solution is to be represented by legal aid firms. If a passenger considers that he is entitled to compensation, contact the airline and ask them to pay. If the airline does not pay, you have two options in Denmark: either you can complain about the airline to the Traffic Authority, or you can bring an action against the airline before the city court. The advantage of complaining to the Traffic Authority is that it is easy and it is free of charge. You submit your information directly on the Road Traffic Authority's website, and they then deal with the matter. And if the Road Traffic Authority decides that a passenger is entitled to compensation, the airline must pay. And so do the airlines in virtually every case. In 2014, the Danish Road Traffic Authority received approx. 1,650 complaints about compensation for delay and cancellation, and in about one third of the cases the passenger was entitled to compensation. The Road Traffic Authority is only aware of eight cases in which the airlines refused to pay. In these cases, the Road Traffic Authority will forward the cases to the prosecution. Instead of going to the Traffic Authority, as I said, passengers also have the opportunity to go to the courts and bring a case before the courts. It takes some time and is often costly. Sometimes the cost of lawyers etc. the compensation is exceeded, and that is why there are legal aid firms, which the questioner mentions sometimes probably takes 25%. in commission. However, back to the question and my answer to this: No, I do not think it is necessary to bring its case before the courts as the first remedy, nor is it necessary to use legal aid firms, because it is quite free and also simple to complain to the Road Traffic Authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144026	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144027	That sounds very effective according to the Minister's reply. I have to say, then, that in practice whole suitcases are carried into Copenhagen City Court with complaints; as far as I remember, 83 complaints are pending before the Supreme Court at the moment. It is not about people who think it is absolutely amusing to go to court, but it is about people who have not felt that their case has been dealt with by the Traffic Authority or who have at least been unsuccessful and who then choose to go to court. I just have to say that their chances of getting through with their demands, as the Minister also says, are, of course, that they can go to court. However, without using these legal aid firms, the conduct of the case actually costs much more than it is possible to get home. Of course it is possible to report the case under one's own private legal aid insurance, but there is a self-risk of DKK 5,000, and if you typically have to have EUR 400 in compensation and the case costs a lot of money to conduct, yes, it is, and will be, a loss business. But now I understand that the Minister believes that the Transport Authority is a very, very effective body, and on that occasion I would like to hear the Minister about something, and I understand that if the Minister does not know the answer, let me hurry to say this: is the Minister aware of how many cases these companies do not comply with the decisions of the Transport Authority and where the Transport Authority then reports these companies to the police? After all, it is provided for in the Passenger Regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144207	The latter was, of course, a specific question which I will try to answer as specifically as possible. It is the case that the Road Traffic Authority does not itself have the power to impose such administrative fines on air carriers which were not or were not allowed to pay the compensation. Instead, it is the fact that the airlines that do not pay are reported to the police when the board has made its decision. I can tell you that per year. Today's date has been sent eight cases to the prosecution with a request for a fine. Of these, one case has been withdrawn as the company has stated that it will now pay compensation. It is the case that I am informed that the prosecution has not yet indicted any of these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144247	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144248	Under the EU Passenger Regulation, Member States are obliged to designate a body responsible for enforcing the regulation. The body that has been appointed here at home is the Traffic Authority. And then Article 16 continues: If necessary, this body will take the necessary steps to ensure that passengers' rights are respected. • What are the necessary measures to be taken? Yes, that is also stated in the same paragraph of Article 16. 3, namely that they must be effective and have a deterrent effect. Does the Minister believe that this situation has been met, since it is evident that so many people need to be involved in court proceedings as is the case? Are the instruments as effective as they should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144338	I have to say that these decisions must be complied with. I would therefore like to see all the decisions of the Road Traffic Authority complied with immediately and that compensation was paid. I mean, when you complain to the Traffic Authority, it's because you've only got a no from the airline. If you are successful in the Road Traffic Authority, it is after all the aim that they should comply with that decision and that is to pay that compensation. That's where the Traffic Authority does it. If it doesn't, they'll report that company to the police. This seems to me to be a very reasonable and sensible approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144419	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144420	Well, I can just conclude briefly that I do not think the Minister's reply covers the fact that so many cases are pending, as is currently the case. As I said, as far as I remember, there are 83 cases just lying in Copenhagen City Court waiting for a Supreme Court ruling. If the system was as effective as indicated by the Minister, then I do not think it was necessary to go to court. However, I will take the time of the next week to formulate some written questions so that we can have clarity about exactly what is up and down, i.e. how many cases there are in the Traffic Authority, how many have been reported to the police and how many are pending in legal proceedings etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144459	I shall look forward to answering those questions. I would say that for my preparation I also went to the Road Traffic Authority's website to see what it was like. It was quite simple; it was two clicks, and then you could get a form and report your claim etc. I can inform you that in 2014 the Danish Road Traffic Authority received 1,650 cases. Of these, 650 were rejected or transferred to other authorities, typically foreign authorities. In 350 cases, binding refusals were notified. In 250 cases, the Danish Road Traffic Authority issued a binding decision on compensation. In 300 of the cases, the airline itself chose to pay compensation. These are the numbers I have on my feet. If I have to pass on more figures, I would very much like to do everything I can, because it is good to have openness and transparency in these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144548	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. The next question has been put to the Minister for Transport, and this has been asked by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144601	Thank you, sir. President. I have the very simple question to the Minister for Transport whether the Minister is aware that, following the meeting between Danske Handicaporganisations, Banedanmark and DSB yesterday, an elevator will be established at Tinglev Station, where a renovation has already been started.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144621	May I start by emphasising that I am pleased that the issue is being raised, because I also think that accessibility-enhancing measures are important throughout Denmark. There are approx. 300 stations on the State-owned rail network. Of the 300 stations there are 250 stations where an elevator has not yet been established. And that's primarily because it's some old stations built in a different time when there wasn't this focus that is today. It is also quite obvious to everyone that it is of course expensive to set up such an elevator; the price varies greatly depending on the conditions of the stations. I've been told that the average is about. 5 million kr. per The elevator, and there's got to be two, so that's 10 million. kr. per station. Then you can multiply up yourself if you want to, i.e. if you have to do it all over Denmark. There are now other things, other than straight lifts, that are crucial. I know this from my meetings with the disabled organisations: guidance lines, platform adjustments, improved traffic information, etc. And these are measures that are constantly prioritised when money is allocated for the purpose. It has happened twice in recent years that earmarked money has been set aside for the purpose of improving accessibility. One time was in 2007, when 28 million were set aside. kr.; the second time was in 2013, when 25 additional millions were set aside. And there are 15 million today. kr. back into unspent funds in the accessibility area. I have just received a briefing yesterday from the meeting between Danske Handicaporganisations, DSB and Banedanmark on the issue of the remaining funds which the questioner refers to here. I have been informed that a wide range of measures across the country were discussed, including the possibility of establishing an elevator at Tinglev Station, which this issue is about. On the basis of a prior consultation of the parties on relevant proposals, Danske Handicaporganisationer, DSB and Banedanmark have prepared a priority list at yesterday's meeting, and I understand that the establishment of an elevator at Tinglev Station is still shown in this priority list.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144829	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144830	Well, thank you to the Minister for the answer. That was just not the answer to my question, because what I am asking the Minister is whether there is going to be an elevator at Tinglev Station now.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144843	There is the fact that there was a meeting yesterday between Danske Handicaporganisationer, DSB and Banedanmark on the funds available. That's a total of 15 million. kr. And they've made a priority list. The costs of the various proposals on this priority list will now be calculated, and Tinglev Station is also on that list. It is the case that, when these costs have been calculated, the proposals will be submitted to the relevant conciliation bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144919	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144920	What exactly is the Minister's position? Well, now we need a renovation at the station in Tinglev. What is the Minister's position on whether it would be reasonable for an elevator to be put in the same hold?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225144936	As I started by saying, I warmly support increased availability at our stations. There is a great need in many places, and when you are already in the process of rebuilding, it makes particular sense to see if it can be done smartly and perhaps also a little cheaper and simpler. I have been informed that it is simply not permissible to remodel without preparing the retrofitting of lifts, but I think it is very reasonable that yesterday's meeting found that this project should be on the priority list. Now we have to calculate what the economy will be in it, and it will then be submitted to the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145015	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145016	This is interesting, because I think that I am actually seeing a transport minister who usually has an opinion on virtually everything between heaven and earth, but exactly about lifts at stations the Minister simply will not give any opinion at all. In other words, we are talking about children's families with prams, pedestrians, disabled people in wheelchairs and the like who, in a very large part of the country, do not actually have the opportunity to use the train without them having made a prior agreement it is 14 days before? The Minister, who would normally like to have a position on matters, must then have his own independent attitude as to whether the Minister considers it reasonable to carry out a renovation at a station where it is not the question of whether to prepare for the installation of an elevator, but whether to install an elevator at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145111	I am a great and warm supporter of increasing availability at all of the 250 stations in Denmark that do not have sufficient availability, i.e.. don't have elevators. It is clear that this is an expensive game, so you have to do it in some stages, and that is why we have asked Danske Handicaporganisations to make some priority lists together with DSB and Banedanmark. And what I have delivered in response to the questioner today is that that station is on the list after that meeting yesterday. Then we need to know the price before I can proceed with it to the relevant conciliation parties. I can ask, why is there money in the pot? It is there because parties that are not the author's own party, namely the government parties, the SF and the Enhedslisten, provided new and fresh money for this pool so that we can continue the work. It is not a job of which the Left is a part, so one can ask the question: why is it that we are raising a matter here in the Assembly about something for which we have not been involved in the allocation of money? The questioner may ask herself if she will answer it, but it is only relevant to get that information.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145214	Now it is the Minister who answers questions, and not the questioner, that needs to be clarified, we have to wait for another time, or perhaps we can take it internally afterwards. Unfortunately, however, the Minister cannot expect answers from the questioner. Eva Kjer Hansen It doesn't matter if it gives me extra speaking time). Well, that's the rules. That is the end of Question 15. The next question has been put to the Minister for Transport, and it is also by Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145244	Now I would like to ask the Minister for Transport whether he is aware of the fact that, following the meeting between Danske Handicaporganisations, Banedanmark and DSB yesterday, lifts will now be established at the stations Rødekro, Padborg, Lunderskov and Børkop, which are also stations where there are no lifts today.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145302	Now I think we have been at all the stations around the constituency of the questioner, and I think that is quite fine. I understand you care about this. I think it's important too. I can inform the questioner that at yesterday's meeting between Danish disability organisations, DSB and Banedanmark, the aforementioned priority list was drawn up. As I mentioned before, lifts at Tinglev Station are shown in the priority list. So the questioner asks: What about the other stations, Red Cro, Padborg, Lunderskov and Børkop? I am told that these projects are not included in this list of priorities. And otherwise I can refer to my answer to the previous question.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145339	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145340	Can the Minister explain in detail what the criteria are for entering the list of priorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145346-2	It's not a job I'm participating in. It is a work in which we ask the experts and interest groups who are concerned about this. I think that's the right thing to do. But there are different criteria and I would very much like to transmit them in writing. It's about how many passengers there are. It makes sense, of course, to take it in that order to start where the need is greatest. So how many passengers are there at the station? It's also about how far it's to the next station where there's an elevator. These are the sort of things you take in when you assess it, I understand from the three parties who met yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145422	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145423	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to send a paper on the criteria. I would also like to ask the Minister to send the list of priorities. And then I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister really believes that it is an important criterion how many passengers there are at a station. Does the Minister think that is what should be chosen for? For then there are a great many parts of the country that will not be on that list of priorities for a very long time. I think that the need is equal throughout Denmark, because it is about accessibility for all citizens in Denmark, and therefore I am very surprised that the Minister highlights the number of passengers as an essential criterion. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145504	When there is any opportunity for Danske Handicaporganisationer, DSB and Banedanmark to meet on this subject, it is because this government has set aside money for that work. This money was set aside in an agreement outside the Left. Now there is money for us to get more lifts up and increase accessibility in Denmark. Tinglev Station is certainly not the place where there are most passengers in Denmark, everyone knows that, but when they are on the priority list, it goes without saying that the answer to that question is given, namely that I listen very carefully to the advice that comes. They will then be submitted to the conciliation circle, just as happened before the elections before this government took office. There it was also the way people, as I understand it, worked. So there has been no change there at all. It's just that some more money has been put in the pot because this government has wanted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145601	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145602	Now the minister started by telling me that it takes about 10 million. kr., every time a station that doesn't have an elevator today has to have it. I would like to ask the Minister how much money the Minister will devote to establishing lifts in far more stations, when the Minister mentions that there are so many stations that do not have lifts today. What is the Minister's wish for, for example? For the next three years? How much money will the Minister drop off?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145630	I can't tell you that. The questioner probably knows too well that it is not the case that a minister can set aside money for it. It's gonna take a lot of conciliation. The last time money was set aside for this area, it was a conciliation circle that the Left chose to stand outside of it. It was the Left who chose to stand outside. There the government, together with the SF and Enhedslisten, chose to set aside money for exactly this work here, and this reflects very well the government's position, namely that we value and prioritise this in everyday politics, and we will do so in the future. But I have to have a conciliation circle, and if, from now on, the Left wants to be in the conciliation circle where we put the money off to lift this area, then I will take it with a kissing hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145710	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. Thank you to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. That was the end of Question 16. The last question has been put to the Minister for the Environment, and that is what Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145725	What is the Minister's view that a citizen who has received a building permit and additional information from a municipality that the building was not contrary to a number of laws, including: The law on planning and nature conservation can still be met with demands for demolition of the buildings listed under the given permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145744	Let me start by saying that, of course, I think it is very unfortunate and unfortunate for the citizen here. Having said that, however, we are talking about the demolition of four holiday cabins that are illegally built because there has been a misinterpretation of the rules by the municipality. As I was informed of the case, the municipality was aware that there was beach protection on the site, but the municipality thought it was no problem. That assessment was not correct, and the Danish Nature Agency refused to grant an exemption over 5 years ago to legalise the huts so that they could remain standing. In 2010, the Nature Complaints Board unanimously confirmed the Danish Nature Agency's refusal. Subsequently, both the Aalborg court in 2012 and the Vestre Landsret in January 2015 have acquitted the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board. Both in the Board of Appeal and in the trials, it has been considered whether the fact that the municipality had told the owner of the huts that he was not in conflict with the law on plans and the Nature Conservation Act should benefit him, that is that the owner was in good faith when he built the huts. To that question, the Board of Appeal and the Vestre Landsret answered no. Both the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, the City Court and Vestre Landsret came to the conclusion that the cabins are illegally built, regardless of what the municipality has said to the owner, and because the owner himself should have examined the conditions on the site better. Whatever legislation we are talking about, it is ultimately the courts that decide what is right and duty and whether you have been in good faith or not. As a minister, I cannot comment on that. So my view is that this is a very regrettable situation, but that I must take note of the decision of the independent Nature and Environmental Complaints Board and the two judgments.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145929	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225145930	I cannot say that I have expressed myself wrong, but the question is general, and that is what the Minister's position is on a situation where a citizen builds under a building permit and yet will have to tear down the building because there has apparently been a mistake in the procedure. It's quite general. The Minister has guessed correctly, because we have also had a few questions to turn around, that the reason why I have been pricked is the mention of a case in Rønbjerg. That is absolutely right. However, the Minister does not need to re-tell the case or the decisions taken in the various bodies. I am quite sure that they have been taken in accordance with the law in force. It is nothing to blame, either in relation to one body or another. However, I would just like to ask the Minister's personal position. What is the Minister's personal attitude towards a situation where a citizen builds under a building permit? It's a very complex area. There are hundreds of seventeen rules to be obtained and a building permit which is reasonably standardized in the context of the guidelines says that the municipal council has found that the construction is not contrary to the following other legislation: law on planning, law on nature protection, etc. 13 laws are even mentioned. Apparently, that's what building permits look like. But what is special in this situation, and I ask the Minister's general view, that, after obtaining a building permit which, moreover, clarifies both the legality of the proposed building and that it is not contrary to a sea of other laws, yet is likely to have to tear down the house? What is the Minister's personal position on that legal situation? It is a legal situation which is certainly correct, but it is the question of whether the law should be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150131	As I said just now, my view is that this is very regrettable to me. And what has been established in the judgments that have also fallen in this case is that there has been a mistake on the part of the municipality. It has also been assessed whether it is to the benefit of the citizen, but the courts have considered that there is also the responsibility of the citizen himself to understand the rules that apply in this area. But the citizen in question has the opportunity to bring an action against the municipality and then seek to replace his loss and that is also a general thing you can do if you want to if you are in such a situation. I recognise that this is a very regrettable situation in which a citizen is now facing a loss as a result of the fact that there has been a mistake on the part of the municipality. The Courts have then found that they themselves should have been aware of the rules that apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150226	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150228	But will the Minister personally be completely opposed to changing the legislation in this area, so that the citizen who, by asking a specific authority in a very complex and complex area, has received a specific authorisation? What is the Minister's position on changing the rules, so that the citizen is protected in this way and not in complete good faith in a situation where, with a permit in hand, a permit specifying the legality of it, is still going to tear it all down? What is the Minister's position on a change in the legal situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150315	Now I do not think it is quite clear what kind of law the questioner wants us to change, but it is the case that the citizen in this very regrettable situation is once again saying that I think it is also the possibility of bringing a legal action against the municipality and thus also having the chance to try to replace his loss in that way. That is the possibility that exists now, and one has to clarify what kind of law one would like to have changed. I understand today that the Left generally wants a relaxation of the beach protection line so that in the future we will be able to experience much more construction on our coasts if it is to the Left. But I do not know whether that is the amendment to which the questioner refers.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150356	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150357	No, I'm just asking in general, and it has nothing to do with beach protection lines or anything, but it's quite general. A person could be the minister himself, or it could be me applying for a building permit for a garage, or whatever the hell you are applying for a building permit for, and get the permit, but still comes in a situation where he is asked to tear down the building again. Should it not be the case that the citizen who obtains a permit in a complex area from a special authority could support that authorisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150427	Yes, I think that is the way it should be, and there is also a clear decision in this case which says that there has been an error on the part of the municipality. However, the courts have also found that the citizen in question could have avoided this situation by getting to grips with the rules that apply in this area. As I have been informed, it has also emerged from the deed of this property that it is a property within the beach protection line and the rules that apply to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150500	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20150225150508	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 26 February 2015, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
