ParlaMint-DK_20151008100011	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Claus Hjort Frederiksen): Bill no. L 2 (Proposal for a law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for state, municipalities and regions for the financial year 2019) and Bill No. L 3 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial years 2014-2017 and the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2018. Minister for Foreign Affairs (Kristian Jensen): Bill No. 29 (Proposal for a law on the conversion of the reservation of law into an electoral system) and motion for a resolution No. 29 (Proposal for a law on the conversion of the reservation of law into an electoral system) B 8 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the sending of an additional Danish military contribution in support of action against ISIL). Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 5 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the legalization of medical cannabis) and motion for a resolution No. Β 6 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a priority institute). Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Stine Brix (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 7 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the removal of transsexualism from the list of diseases). Kim Christiansen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 9 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on raising the speed limit to 90 km/h. On the road). Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). The Minister for Nordic Cooperation (Peter Christensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Danish Parliament a written statement on Nordic co-operation 2014-2015. R 2). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 20 October 2015. The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Kristian Jensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the cooperation in the Arctic. R 3). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 20 October 2015. The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Kristian Jensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the Baltic Sea Council cooperation. R 4). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 20 October 2015. The Minister for Defence (Peter Christensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on Nordic defence and emergency cooperation. R 5). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 20 October 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008100357	Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen (S) has applied for leave from 8 October 2015, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 and Mr Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) applied for leave from 19 October, Mr Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and Mr Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) from 21 October and Mr Mette Bock (LA) from 22 October 2015, the latter four for temporary public service. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008100456	From the Committee to the Verification of Elections, I have received the recommendation that the following be approved as temporary members of the Folketing: From 8 October 2015 onwards: 1st deputy for the Social Democracy in Nordjyllands Storkreds, Per Husted, on the occasion of Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen's leave. From 19 October 2015: 1st deputy for Enhedslisten in Østjyllands Storkreds, Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, on the occasion of Nikolaj Villumsen's leave. From 21 October 2015: 1st deputy for the Danish People's Party in Fyns Storkreds, Carsten Kudsk, on the occasion of Alex Ahrendtsen's leave, and 2nd deputy for the Socialist People's Party in Copenhagen's Storkreds, Sisse Marie Welling, on the occasion of Pia Olsen Dyhr leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that she does not wish to join this leave. As of October 22, 2015: 1st deputy for the Liberal Alliance in the South Jutland Storkreds, Steen Holm Iversen, on the occasion of Mette Bock's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008100613	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I think everyone has voted, so the vote is over. In favour 121 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF, IA and SIU) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 121 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008100705	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008100739	The Prime Minister said in his opening speech that there is reason to be proud of Denmark that Denmark is a good society. I fully agree with that. But allow me to be a little direct here at the start of the day. The Denmark we are proud of is not created on very low benefits for families with children. The Denmark we are proud of is not created at a criminal low age of 12 years. The Denmark we are proud of is not created by top tax concessions. The Denmark we are proud of is created on the contrary, on equal opportunities, on social progress, on a progressive tax system. And we must continue. We must build on the world's best society, not the opposite. We are faced with a parliamentary year that will be crucial for Denmark, and in my view there are three tasks that are more important than all others. Firstly, we need a financial law that ensures two things: strengthened nuclear welfare, more jobs. Secondly, we need a fairer benefit system and, thirdly, we need to help people who are on the run while ensuring that Danish integration can keep up. The government has a choice. You can choose a path where the lack of responsibility of the Danish People's Party is to be reconciled with the eternal ideological attack of the Liberal Alliance on our welfare society, or you can choose a path where the development of our welfare is strengthened and where we maintain with financial responsibility a broad cooperation in the Folketing. That's the choice the Prime Minister has to make. I'm proud of our welfare community. I am deeply impressed by the many midwives, schoolteachers, SOSUs and educators who, with great professionalism and human profit, create small miracles in everyday life. And as Social Democrats, we will always defend our community when the attacks are launched, from minus growth in the public sector to ideological battles with our health services. At the same time, we will be critical when it is needed. And as a Social Democrat, I do not believe that everything will just get better if we spend more money, but at a time when there is little room for manoeuvre, yes, there is room for more quality in welfare. This applies, in particular, to our children, to our elderly people and to health care, to the broad welfare benefits, and this applies to our vulnerable groups. Where, as a government, we put forward a children's package of 2.5 billion. kr. for a strengthened effort for the smallest, the Left Children's Package rolls back and generously distributes 600 million. kr. to the country's richest in reduced inheritance tax. It's not the kids' bill, it's the heirs' bill. And where, as a government, we insisted on creating more opportunities and removing the lowest benefits, the Left has instead abolished the poverty line, reinstated the cash aid ceiling with care for the children and dropped our idea of cheap housing. And where, as a government, we set aside a billion for our older people for better care and care, the Left is half the amount and reintroducing a housing job scheme with very few jobs. The Danish People's Party now wants to help reduce welfare. Their first priority is Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister, not the welfare community. And it reminds me of a story at home from North Jutland: We are going to Hjallerup Market. A man goes to see a horse dealer. He looks at a horse and asks if it will jump and dance. The horse dealer smiles in the North Jutland way, nods and confirms that it wants to. Of course, the man buys the horse and takes it with him. But as he has walked quite a few meters along the Hjallerup Market, the horse falls down. It can't even stand on its feet. Of course he goes back immediately, for he has paid for the horse, and complains loudly about the situation: You said it would both jump and dance, and look now! The horse dealer answers in North Jutland: Well, it would like to, but it just can't. A little the same is true of Kristian Thulesen Dahl, because first there were absolutely indispensable demands for both border control and public growth of 0.8%. Now it's not that important anymore. It is the same with the government. If you lock on to minus growth, there's no money for the welfare you promised. Fortunately, Denmark is once again facing a recovery. This time we have the opportunity to jointly ensure that it benefits the whole of Denmark, not just those with the highest incomes, not just those already in jobs, not just the big cities. That must apply to all of us. When the government wants to call for negotiations on tax reform, we are standing up, and although the Prime Minister was the first to lower his eyes in the negotiations with Anders Samuelsen on the government base, he does not need to lower the top tax. Our mandates are another way forward. We will go to the negotiations with a clear starting point: the money must be used for welfare. And should an economic space be created against expectation, then lightly the tax for those earning the least. The money must be spent both fairly and wisely, including when it comes to jobs. Instead of proposals that have no effect, we should come together for answers that work. It is about ensuring responsible capital for our companies, about improving corporate taxation, about better conditions for research and development and, of course, about a forward-looking and necessary commitment to employees in adult and continuing training. And so it is very stupid to hang the Danish green driver's shirt on the silent servant, when Danish companies have so much to contribute. We need to find the solutions that benefit the whole of Denmark, Danish business, Danish jobs. This applies not least to the areas outside the large cities. The Prime Minister also said on Tuesday that the unemployment benefit reform of 2010 is basically right. I fundamentally disagree with that, because if anyone has created insecurity for our labour market in general and for thousands of employees in particular, the unemployment benefit reform has created uncertainty for our labour market in general. We want a new benefit system with new rules that will allow us to earn better; fewer people will have to fall out. It can never be an independent goal to spend more money, and from what we have now been able to experience, however, it is essential that we create a robust benefit system, and on that basis we believe that there will be a need to find new and more money. How and how much must we negotiate, but an overall solution that is robust is hardly found within the current framework. This should be possible for 90 seats in the Folketing to come together, otherwise social democracy will not be included. It's time for broad cooperation, if we want to. This applies in particular to the question of refugees and foreigners. After an embarrassing election campaign with hard rhetoric, immediate slow-downs and symbolism politics, the reality has come. Of course, we in Denmark must assume our share of the responsibility. When people are on the run, they need protection. This is the case in the neighbourhoods. We cannot be familiar with the miserable conditions in the camps, and this is the case in Denmark when we accept asylum seekers. At the same time, we must be honest that more refugees to Denmark make the discussion about the total number of foreigners even more important. That is why we also need to look at the rules of family reunification. And there is everyone in the Chamber who knows it, even if you do not want to admit it. As Social Democrats, we believe more than anything in law and duty, and it is with that value in our inner pocket that we come up for negotiations on family reunification. There are three requirements: language, work and housing. We are different parties in the Folketing, we meet with different opinions. I have outlined the socialist priorities and I am convinced that we can find each other if we want to. Our mandates are ready for cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008101824	Thank you. And there are a large number of comments. The first one's from sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008101829	Thanks and jump and jump and everything. I think that social democracy has done so sometimes in recent months. It has been a little difficult to find out exactly what the party thinks about different things. Now we got a new report in the area of unemployment benefits: Now we can get new and more money for the benefit area in order to get a good solution. Of course, I think that is a good thing; we have been talking about this for a very long time. Social democracy has had a different point of view to date, but it is a good thing that we can move in this way. The President of the Social Democratic Party has also spoken about the need for a great deal of agreement in the area of foreigners in here. That is what I would like to ask, because of course I find that very interesting from my point of view. The question is on the substance. I would like to ask quite specifically: will the Social Democratic Party, for example? Do we agree with the new level of performance that we have achieved after the elections by the new majority? This has, of course, been one of the focal points of the debate in recent years. When the Social Democracy came to power in 2011, it almost doubled the benefits that people could get when they came to Denmark. We have then gone back to the performance levels that were before 2011. Will the Social Democratic Party agree to this in order to be able to make a foreign policy agreement with the rest of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008101938	Thank you. Mrs Mette Frederiksen would also like to read out a proposal for adoption. There's just the answer to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and then the proposal for adoption can come. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008101946	I am incredibly pleased with the issue, and I am particularly pleased because, on several occasions, I have called on the government to call for wide-ranging negotiations in the field of foreigners, and this is not really being taken up by the extended hand and invitation. That is why we can, of course, take the discussion today. We want to discuss the area under one. From the near-range effort in the Middle East and North Africa to joint reception centres in the EU to how we ensure that integration will work in our schools and day care centres and in the labour market. The government, together with the blue parties, has adopted and decided to reduce benefits for people who are in Denmark and have to live in Denmark. As a starting point, we do not think this is the right way to go. But it goes without saying that if we are to enter a negotiating room, we all have to go to the table and deal with all the different issues that apply to foreigners, but our attitude to the far too low benefits is well known to the Danish People's Party. We do not think this is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102054	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102056	But what's just a little exciting here is to find out what it means to go into a room and you have a starting point, and I understand that, that's not it at all. But it is just that if it is clear that a majority in this House is saying that this is the case, is the Social Democrats prepared to accept it as a premise for a foreign policy agreement in here that there is the level of benefits that has now been adopted? It has been a focal point for many years. After all, social democracy changed the rules when it came to power in 2011, when benefits were approximately doubled. Now we've come back again. Of course, this is also important in relation to the number of people who come here. That is why it is important for some of us. And then I just ask Mrs Mette Frederiksen: is this a premise that will be accepted as the basis for negotiations on a foreign policy agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102138	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102139	Well, two things: Well, I think we're gonna have to get the facts straight, because you're just listening to Mr. Kim. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's words, it sounds as if we have raised the benefits for refugees and immigrants more than what applies to everyone else. That is not the case. What is the question is whether we should have two sets of benefits for people who come here and benefits in general, and there it has been our assessment that when the reduced benefits that applied up the 00s have not sufficiently got people into employment, then there is also a consideration, not least for the children who grow up in the families. That is why we abolished some of the lowest benefits, and that remains our starting point. I would actually like to attack the fundamental position of the Danish People's Party in the discussion here, namely whether it should be the case when we enter the negotiating room that rules should be laid down as to what it takes to go in there. Was it not more democratic, was it not wiser, was it not more foresight, that we sat down to the table and discussed how we make integration work and how we manage the whole area of foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102240	Yes, thank you, and that was the answer. Then there is a proposal for adoption which must be entered in the accounts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102246	Yes, and on behalf of the parties Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical Left and SF, I shall make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that, despite promises to the contrary, the government will introduce minus growth in the municipalities. This will mean cuts in service levels and fewer public employees to the detriment of the care and care of our elderly and the security and education of our children and young people. The Danish Parliament invites the government to cooperate widely in the Danish Parliament, as follows: children, young people and the elderly, that more people come to work in all regions of Denmark, that the green transition continues for the benefit of the environment and the climate, that Denmark plays an active and committed role in international development. • V 1).
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102331	Thank you. And the proposal for adoption is part of the further negotiations. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102338	Thank you. And thank you to the Socialist President of the speech here; it is good to see the new President of the Socialist Group in the Chair already. I'll continue a little where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl escaped because, of course, one should not lay down the grounds for what the outcome of the negotiations should be before entering the room, but one can agree on what the consequences are of the things one decides. After all, the Socialists voted against the integration service, but do the Socialists recognise that increasing the benefits to the people who come here will lead to more asylum seekers in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102414	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102415	To be perfectly honest, I do not think you can simply answer that question. After all, I myself have worked quite a lot on the asylum area as a former Minister of Justice, and there are quite a lot of things that affect how the flows of refugees spread when they move across Europe. It is clear to all of us who are watching that the path of traffickers and the actor is very, very important, that knowledge of the countries is important, that family relations are important. But I have answered that question many times, and I will answer the same thing as I have done all the other times, namely that yes, also in the countries where people flee to, can have an impact, and that also applies to benefits. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that when a family of children sits in a torn Syria and wants to get away from the horrors of war, it is not primarily the level of cash assistance in Denmark that determines, first and foremost, whether or not they are fleeing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102513	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102515	Well, thank you for recognizing that we are in the first place fleeing from something that we fully agree on, but there is the recognition that something is also being fled to, and we can look at the people who have come here. But now that the Socialist President recognises that it has a meaning, what conditions are offered, should we not in Denmark look at the countries around us just a little bit and compare the level of performance we have in this country with the other countries and perhaps not put the bar too high in relation to the others?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102548	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102549	After all, it is incredibly apt for the further debate that some of the major parties can agree that people are fleeing from something, and it is not always possible to hear it in the political debate. In other words, there is nothing strange and strange about the fact that, with a Middle East on fire and several North African states that have de facto collapsed, we see that many people have been sent on the run. As clearly as the flow of refugees shows, Denmark and Europe are not the answer for the many people who have set themselves in motion, because in addition to the refugees who are knocking on the door of Europe, there are quite a lot of immigrants who come here. I think it is important to strike the right balance between being able to provide protection to those who have the need and, at the same time, managing how many come here. And there are a lot of things that should be included in that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102641	Then I'll read the list. I can see that there are many who are interested in when they come on. So I'm just gonna read up the list for the time being. The next speaker is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Then comes Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Søren Pape, Peter Skaarup, Jacob Jensen, Louise Schack Elholm, Rune Lund, Torsten Schack Pedersen, Mai Mercado, Anni Matthiesen and Joachim B. Olsen. And then we'll see how many more we can make. I hope that we will be able to reach those on the list if we keep to the speaking time. It's pretty important. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102713	Thank you very much for your speech, and I think Mrs Mette Frederiksen can almost guess which part of it we in the Enhedslist have probably been waiting to hear for years or at least for a very, very long time, that is, there is a need to add more money to the benefit system. I'd really like to sign for that message. It is very, very important that it has come along. Does Mrs Mette Frederiksen not agree that if, for example, we vote by a majority? together with the Danish People's Party, which has made some very clear promises about what they think is going to happen in the field of unemployment benefits, can get more money, get a safer benefit system than we have today, because I completely agree that insecurity is generally a problem and, in particular, for a large group of people, the Social Democrats are involved in using the potential majority that could be with the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102812	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102814	Well, if I understand it correctly, Enhedslisten I have added with great sympathy for an excellent collaborator with almost usual precision already resigned from the negotiations. That is why, excuse me, the answer is a little strange, because I do not need all sorts of political gaming about daily allowances. I don't need words and slogans and big arm movements. I need us to find solutions. There are some people who have come into contact, and they have even gotten double-tied. At first they lost their jobs because of an economic crisis, and then they were hit by an unemployment benefit reform, and said in all due respect to you who adopted it: it was not good enough and it was not thought through. Everyone who adopted the benefit reform has a responsibility for that. They were hit first by unemployment, then by an unemployment benefit reform with an excessively harsh phasing-in. I would now like to produce some results. I think we are creating them in a negotiating room. I believe and hope that the government I hope it will, and I would urge and appeal to it to assume the responsibility for bringing all parties to the negotiating table, by the way. But what we're talking about here isn't a joke. It is up to the negotiating table and it is to find solutions, and I believe we can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102934	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008102935	I think it would be a good idea if we could avoid gambling and then find a solution. If I have in any way stated that the Enhedslisten does not want a solution for the thousands of people who have fallen out of the benefit system, then I am certainly sorry. On the contrary, our business is to use the potential majority that exists. Perhaps Mrs Mette Frederiksen has heard something from the Left that I have not, but as I understand it, there is therefore no willingness to spend any of the much money they have just scratched in on cuts to the unemployed on the contrary. So what I am asking is: if the Left does not want to help put more money into the benefit system, will the Socialists help to use a majority other than that with the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103020	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103021	I would like to say two things to that. What is perhaps the biggest structural problem of this Parliament is the lack of accountability. Now I say it as directly as you possibly can. The fact that so many parties are running for the latest parliamentary elections with the desire to represent parts of Denmark without being willing to assume government responsibility, I think is one of our alleralds' biggest structural challenges. That is why, of course, fiscal policy and its associated fiscal effects and consequences will have to be anchored with the government in office at all times. This is true now as of an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103057	Thank you. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103102	At least we look forward to working with the new government and taking responsibility for a lot of good reforms, even if the Social Democrats do not want to deliver anything where it really hurts. It is the case that the speaker actually brought some news, and I really think that people should be praised for that. It was said that for social democracy the answer is not always more money. I was incredibly pleased to hear that, because it is certainly something other than what we have heard over the past many years. So I would like to ask very specifically: What are the areas in which the Social Democratic Party imagines that less money could be spent? Because we are very interested in proposals on how to spend less money in the public sector, and since the answer is not more money everywhere, it has to be less money in some places.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103156	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103158	I am not quite sure that I understand the physiological approach of the Liberal Alliance, namely that things should actually hurt. I would also like to say a few words about what we almost always hear from the Liberal Alliance, namely that when you have to motivate at the top, it should preferably be with carrots, positive incentives, and when you have to motivate at the bottom, it should be primarily with the whip. Is the Liberal Alliance really convinced that people are so different, depending on where they are in our society? I don't think so. Specifically, we were asked where less money should be spent. An incredibly concrete and good example is the housing job scheme. Why much directly burn almost 1 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. That is an example of that, I think, that money is being burned off without there being any goals and effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103303	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103305	Now we share the opposition to the housing job scheme. However, when I talk about spending less money, I am talking about real expenditure, which must be lower. For what I fear when a Social Democrat wants to abolish a housing job scheme is that you then come up with spending more money on public spending instead of lightening the tax, as if the Liberal Alliance would have done. Then I just want to explain in relation to the most disadvantaged. We have an incredibly great interest in getting far, far more members of the working community, and we are sorry that the socialist model shuts people out of the working community, excluding them from the community it is, and the values that are in being able to go to work and pass it on to its children.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103355	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103356	No matter how you turn it around, the housing job scheme is an expense, and that money could be used wiser. It will be my call that we use them to support specifically the creation of more private jobs in Denmark, throughout Denmark. By the way, I am pleased with the problem which Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll travels: how we can ensure that fewer people are on transfer income and that more people enter the labour market. If there was anything on which we spent time and effort and resources and energy as a government, that was exactly it. It's not that you have to brag about something in Danish politics at any time. I don't do that here either, but I'm gonna make a little promotional campaign. The cash aid reform that many of the parties here in the Danish Parliament helped to implement works. Together, we have managed the difficult exercise of moving young people from a passive life on cash aid without sufficient perspective to a life of education. Well done by all those who were there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103459	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103502	Thank you. Mrs Mette Frederiksen talks warmly about the families of children and about all the good that needs to be done in our society. I have also understood that the Socialists define themselves as a working party and as some who would also like to take care of the elderly. But there was nothing in the talk about these people's ability to live in their own house. I would just like to ask whether the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has any intention at any time of addressing the growing cause, that is, the fact that people are being hunted from house and home, a home that they have bought and paid, but in which they can no longer live because of rising taxes. It is therefore also a problem, not just for people who live in some areas, which I can imagine I will soon hear is for the particularly rich, because that is a broad problem in many parts of the country. Wasn't it an idea to take hold there instead of people being chased from house to home?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103552	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103554	I think, in fact, that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is right that there may be a problem with the ground blame for some of the landowners. It's just not our biggest problem. In fact, I tried very carefully in my speech today to focus on what I think is Parliament's most important tasks in the autumn that is ahead of us. And there it is the core welfare, that is to create more private jobs, that is to ensure a proper balance in foreign policy, and that is to create a fairer benefit system. That is our first priority. I know that there are houseowners in a mess because of these rules, but I think there are tasks we have to solve before we get that far.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103635	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103639	I am, of course, pleased to hear that something will be done to get private jobs. I'm really glad. That is essential, I heard that it was said, but there is surely nothing more important for people than being safe in their own homes, being able to live in their own homes. But pensioners who have bought and paid their house can no longer stay. They're figuring out when they're going out. An ordinary family in a parcel house in Rødovre has to pay 26,000 DKK. I'm sorry. I think this is important, and it is also about the safety of children and the security of families. How can that not be significant?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103711	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103713	I would not dream of saying that the conditions surrounding our homes are not essential. That's why Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen I also say that we know that some people have got into a mess. We have also made a commitment in the past that, when we look at the system, we can say "and the rules of this, of course we should all be willing to discuss whether it can be done wiser. But everyone in this Chamber has to give priority in the coming years, and speaking of housing, I think it is fine to focus on the landowners, but there are also many people who do not own a dwelling, and there are many people who cannot afford to own a dwelling, but who, in turn, want to live in the city because this is where they work. Why does an overall blue block abolish our plan, our strategy and our commitment to cheap housing everywhere so that we do not have fragmented cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103803	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103806	I would like to follow up on what the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group has said. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asked a few questions about the current situation with many migrants and refugees to Denmark, which is of course something that concerns us all. What are we doing to resolve this situation? The Socialist Group in the European Parliament has, I have noticed, expressed its views in a number of recent cases in favour of border controls. I have heard Mrs Trine Bramsen, who is the Socialist legal rapporteur, say that we must go to the edge of the Schengen Agreement in order to create border controls, and I think it is very interesting if that is the case. I would like to hear here in the debate today whether it is true that, when we are going to have the debate on the situation of the police, the police appropriations in the coming years, the Danish People's Party will back up the fact that we have to go as far as we can, in relation to the Schengen Agreement we would like to go further, we would like to introduce total border controls, but as far as we can and whether, moreover, we want to ensure that there are sufficient officers and customs officers to handle the controls that are absolutely necessary from our point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103921	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008103922	I can answer that question so clearly: I am because I was when I was Minister of Justice, and I am today. Of course, a country and a society must know and know what is happening at its border. Of course. And the crime that we see today, which is cross-border both in its character, in its language and in its form, requires border controls. I do not think there is any disagreement there. What we can discuss is how best to organize it, and there I do not think that physically placed customs officers or police officers are the wisest way to go, because we can do much more than that today. Automatic license plate scanners, follow-up both in the register and in the direct action give us a much better overview of what is happening at our border on the Danish-German side, as well as the pass scanners we are about to set up at Copenhagen Airport, which is the biggest border crossing for Denmark at all, will be a valuable weapon for Danish police. But the short answer is: I am in favour of border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104040	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104042	After all, I have so little doubt as to hear Mrs Mette Frederiksen here today. It is a great thing that the Socialists have become supporters of border controls, we are pleased to hear that we agree with the wishes of the Danish People's Party, but then they say that it does not do so and that we cannot use the placement of police and customs officers on the border to do anything. And then we are a little back at this intelligent border control, it seems to be thought, and then we other people seem to think that there should be unintelligent border controls. Do we not agree that we really need to have border controls, where we also make the registration, which is not happening at the moment, systematically by the people who come to Denmark, so far more officers and customs officers are needed? Don't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104127	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104128	But these are two different discussions, because now we are over in immigration control and registration of illegal immigration, which has increased in strength and to an extent and is also going on in a way I hope the government is also of the attitude that cannot just continue indefinitely. It is clear that if it is a matter of registering illegal immigration, you have to be physically present at the border, but border controls are many different things. What is crucial when we talk about border controls is that the Danish police and also our intelligence services have an overview of who is moving across borders, what patterns they are moving on, with whom they are moving across borders. And there is a clear preference for smart, automatic border controls, because that is what I think, and I think that is what we have already seen in the light of the effects of the fight against cross-border crime, and that is important if we want to take care of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104228	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104232	I'd like to sign for the speech. In fact, I think it was very well formulated in terms of content. That was a clear speech. It was also accommodating, so it looks good, but I would also like to say that there were some substantive thistles that we must of course have pulled out. Among other things: Mrs Mette Frederiksen says that she is not proud of a Denmark with very low services. On the other hand, Mrs Mette Frederiksen felt that all the room for manoeuvre should go to welfare rather than tax relief. So let me just ask specifically: exactly when did Mrs Mette Frederiksen realise that she is opposed to her own party's policy? It is not long ago, I am aware, that Mrs Mette Frederiksen, when she was in government, was herself involved in tax relief for businesses, tax reliefs, top tax reliefs and, at the same time, was helping to reduce cash benefits for selected groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104327	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104328	Now I think we should base the further discussion on the fact that, in all humility, I know more about the policy of the Social Democratic Party than Mr. Jacob Jensen does. This is probably true both in the past, in the present and, hopefully, in the future, even if I thank you for your interest. What I am saying clearly today in my speech is that, with the room for manoeuvre created by decisions taken in recent years, we must rest and think about what we want with that money. When we are in the place of releasing ourselves from an economic crisis that has had consequences both in the private labour market but also for the public sector and for our welfare, then our position is just clear: then we would like to give priority to what we share: core welfare. So I do not belong to them, I would like to say that everything in our welfare societies is perfect today. I think there are old people who are being left too much to themselves. I think there are children who experience a day-to-day life in the nursery and kindergarten, where there is not enough proximity and contact, and that is one of the things I would like to improve. That is why I am just saying clearly: let us spend the money on it in the coming years. It is a choice; it is a political choice that can be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104440	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104441	It is absolutely true that it is a political choice. But I just have to understand it quite correctly: it was not a mistake, therefore, since we were helped by the Left, when Mrs Mette Frederiksen sat in government until a few months ago, carried out several tax cuts for business, top tax incentives, etc., and at the same time reduced the cash benefits for young people who are ready for training. I mean, the benefits and taxes were reduced. It was not a mistake a few months ago, but today it is something else that we must do in the future. Is that how I'm supposed to understand the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104510	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104512	It was wise for us to do a tax reform. It was also wise that we did a cash aid reform. We should also bear in mind what the questioner himself says about who we were reducing benefits for. We did the opposite of what is being proposed now. We didn't just lower the benefits for everyone. In fact, we made the very, very conscious and, moreover, difficult choice that young people who can and who have the prerequisites for training can come to SU level, but those who are handicapped by mental vulnerability, difficult conditions of upbringing, massive social problems were not reduced in performance. Such a distinction, which is, of course, more difficult to make than just pulling everyone down, is necessary if we are also to ensure the necessary social progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104556	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104601	Thank you. I'm just trying to figure out where we're standing right now. There was something I didn't realize. Several of the previous questioners asked questions about the benefits of integration, and I did not really realize from what the Socialist rapporteur said, whether the Socialists recognise that it is important, what conditions are offered to people when they come to Denmark, in relation to whether it brings people up here. I heard Mrs. Mette Frederiksen mentioned this about people running from something. Now I've just been to the United States, and over there it's quite common knowledge and science. It's a country that has a lot of experience with migration... that there are both push and pull factors. It is true that push factor is such a thing as war, but pull factor is such a thing as the conditions you come up to, among other things. economics. After all, the former Red Government changed the terms of those who come up here to avoid so many coming up here, so I would just like to know if the Socialists believe that the conditions that people are offered when they come to Denmark actually have an impact on how many people are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104706	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104708	In all due respect to the author, I would say that one simply cannot say in a sentence: push factor, that may be something like war. Now, listen to me: we have a completely collapsed Syria, and we have an enormous area of conflict thanks to the Islamic State and the dictatorship regime in Syria, which has sent historically many people to flee, and which, incidentally, has already caused many people to lose their lives. It's not like war that's push factor. The war is sending people on the run. And I'm not going to argue that there's a reason people are fleeing. We need to have that in place with the seriousness and seriousness that it requires. At the same time, and I have said this for a very long time, I say quite soberly that a number of other factors are involved in relation to which country you end up in. I do not think anyone can afford to be blind or anything else, so that the smugglers who organize the escape routes are quite aware and informed of a great many different conditions • of course also the level of benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104820	Thank you. Mrs. Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104822	I recognise and appreciate the fact that the President of the Socialist Party recognises this, that it is important what the conditions are when you come up here. But since the Socialists recognise that the level of benefits has an impact on how many people come to Denmark, how can it be that the Socialists will not support the benefits of integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104840	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104843	Because there are always many things we need to take into account. One is what conditions we want to offer people who come here, but something else is what kind of safety net we want to extend to the entire population that is in our country. Whether you like it or not, we will always have an eye for the children too. I really would like it to be a short-term temporary benefit, whether we are talking about cash benefits or integration benefits, but we just know that this is not the case for everyone, because that is where children grow up for some people. And there I'm just worried about whether the very, very low services are going to tighten up, not only for integration, but also, and that is most important of all, for a proper child's life.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104934	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008104938	The proposal for adoption, which has been read out, states: Parliament notes that, despite promises to the contrary, the government will introduce minus growth in the municipalities. But could we not say the same thing about the Social Democrats? Could it have been said: Parliament notes that despite promises to the contrary, the Social Democrats have voted for zero growth in welfare in the municipalities in 2016? Could one add: S has also promised the government that S will vote for minus growth in the municipalities from 2017 onwards if the Left Government agrees this with the municipalities? How is it that, before the elections and during the elections, we promised that we would fight for growth in the public sector, when, immediately after the elections, we said that if the government of the Left were to agree less growth with the municipalities, we would vote in favour of it? In my world, it is not related to saying one before the election and doing another after the election.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105031	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105033	But the short answer to the question is no and no. And then comes the follow-up, namely that we have a fundamental respect for the model of agreement between the KL on the one hand and the current government on the other. And what we have agreed to is that the Folketing should, of course, respect the agreement reached by the government with KL. Does that mean we agree? No, it doesn't have to mean that. Does that mean we're too low-growth? It definitely doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105110	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105113	So I have to understand the answer here: the Socialists are not in favour of minus growth. The Social Democrats promised in the election campaign that they would fight for growth in the public sector, but the Social Democrats have voted for minus growth in 2016, and the Social Democrats do not mind doing so for 2017 and for the future if the government makes an agreement with the municipalities that contain it here. Does the rapporteur not think that there are a lot of voters who will find this a little strange? Now the rapporteur told a joke about a horse that wants to but cannot. Is it not really the same horse that the Socialists have sold to the electorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105150	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105152	Now I would say as a North Jyde and as someone who has visited the Hjallerup Market a number of times during my life that I hadn't jumped on that horse trade. I'll leave that to somebody else. But the answer is the same. The fact that we respect and recognise an agreement and it is an agreement made between KL and the government does not mean that the content is stamped blue. And on the question of what growth we must have in our public economy: there we have the financial law negotiations ahead of us, and I have said very clearly that what we want to prioritise, in addition to continuing support and strengthening the creation of private jobs, is core welfare. And, of course, that also means continuing our commitment to positive developments, among others. in the municipal welfare economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105243	Thank you. And the next speaker is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105248	Of course, it's a little strange as a Leftman to have to grab the ball from someone from the Enhedslisten, but I do. Because I am also a little surprised that some things from the Social Democratic Party are being said in headlines, and when it gets a little more firm then the pipe gets a different sound. I must admit that I was very pleased with the interview that Mrs Mette Frederiksen gave in August to Berlingske, in which Mrs Mette Frederiksen said that social democracy should be as professional as the bourgeois. It was, as it were, central to financing welfare that we had a strong business sector that could produce some jobs, generate some revenue. It may have been a recognition that the prerequisite for affording welfare is that the money is made first. I thought that was positive. But then I feel a little like sir. Rune Lund, because when it gets concrete, it's gonna snap a little bit. Now the Social Democrats' President is then saying that when it becomes concrete in terms of doing something for the business community, it did not mean it anyway. Well, the housing job scheme doesn't work, better conditions for generational change for family-owned companies are also bad. Let me just test one thing the rapporteur has not answered: what about the abolition of the NOx tax, which lies in the government's financial bill? Will the Social Democratic Party be as professional as the bourgeois?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105409	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105411	Yeah, we'd like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105415	Torst Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105419	I am very pleased that the Social Democratic Party can already endorse that proposal. I think that was a liberating answer. I should also just like to make sure that the Social Democratic Party is, of course, also ready to find funding for the initiatives that the Social Democratic Party will support in the field of taxation. And then I just want to know if the Social Democrats are going to come up with a financial bill before we have the first reading of the Finance Act here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105444	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105446	When I say that we are positive about the NOx tax, it is because we are fully aware that for some companies it is seen as a severe restriction. That is why we are in favour of discussing it. I'm just still feeling like this with that housing job scheme: why burn off so much money on something we don't think creates a lot of jobs? That is why the answer to the two points is so different: we say no to the housing job scheme; we say yes to the NOx tax as a starting point. Does it require funding? Yes, of course it will. Are we going to bring it together? Yeah, of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105527	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105534	Mrs Mette Frederiksen said herself that the election campaign is over. This also means that the Socialists can shake the heavy yoke of government responsibility off their shoulders. But that also means that there may be a bit of a veil on the statements you have, because before the elections, the immigration policy was relaxed a great many times: 34 times, I even think that the Radicals were out to correct it and say that it was actually 45 times and now you start making deals with the bourgeois people. That is why I would just like to ask: how do the Socialists intend to conduct a strict and responsible immigration policy and asylum policy when the rest of the red parties want to relax the rules? How will this be done when government offices are to be reinstated at any given time?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105622	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105624	First of all, I would like to say that I did not see it as a heavy yoke to sit in government. There are many difficulties associated with this, and I think the present Prime Minister can confirm that; he smiles incredibly kindly at me, but at any time I would prefer that the Social Democratic Party carry what may be yoked on our shoulders than the opposite. So it can be said that the premise of the questioner's question I do not actually recognise. To foreign policy: who says that we should lead it in one block or the other? This is one of the most important areas in my view at all for the Danish Parliament. The way in which we conduct our policy on refugees and foreigners has far-reaching consequences, and that is why we should reach a broad political agreement. Can I promise that all parties in the red bloc will agree with that or will join the Socialist line? No, I can't. I therefore also represent the social democracy first and foremost, and our position in this area is that there must be a balance and that, with integration as failed as that which we see in many places, there are limits to how many foreigners can continue to come to our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105735	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105737	There is no need for block policy, but everything else goes on when it comes to government, because you have a majority behind you. What Mrs Mette Frederiksen is just saying is that foreign policy is going to sail. So right now, under a bourgeois government there is being tightened up, but the day when a red government may come, it will be relaxed again, because it will force the government to do so by a majority. Then I just think that Mrs Mette Frederiksen owes it to the Danes to tell the Danes that this is how they intend to do it; that foreign policy is going to fade in the wind, and that the Danes cannot really know what they will get if they get a red government at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105813	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105814	Well, speaking of flapping in the wind and sailing out there: What was the situation this summer? The situation was that the government had entered into an agreement with KL on the economy of the municipalities and that it could not obtain a commitment from the former large government-bearing party, the Conservative People's Party, that they would support a model agreement in Denmark at all. Then, of course, we had to cooperate with the rest of us. Speaking of sailing and flapping in the wind, I would therefore like to suggest to the Conservative People's Party that it should get back to where the party was once in an incredibly noble way, namely to be behind a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105850	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105855	Thank you. I actually just have a short question which the rapporteur may just be able to answer with either yes or no. Are the Social Democrats making a financial bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105907	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105909	Yes, of course we do. Well, we're invited to negotiations with my excellent name brother. My name is neither Claus nor Hjort, but we're both Frederiksen, so far it goes with us. Besides, there aren't so many similarities between us, are there, Claus? I don't know who's most in favor of it. We'll find out. Well, in any case, there will be a meeting tomorrow, and it will of course be clear what the priorities are for the forthcoming budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105937	Thank you. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105941	Thank you. So the answer was, yes, the Social Democrats come up with a financial bill, and we see it before you meet your name brother?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105952	Well, now we don't have to charge too much directly. But here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008105956	We must respect the rules. Of course, ahead of the negotiations we are embarking on, we will set out what our priorities are. They are fleeing for good reasons with what I have already said today, namely that we want to strengthen core welfare and to support the creation of private jobs. We are concerned with a fairer benefit system, and then we must start negotiations with the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008110024	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008110034	Mrs Mette Frederiksen himself led a cash aid reform which reduced benefits. And the proceeds used Mrs Mette Frederiksen's party to lower corporate tax. It was also done under the previous government that the rates for all beneficiaries of transfer income were reduced so that they would not increase so much. Mrs Mette Frederiksen did not do that because she is an evil person, because she is not, but it was done because you know that it works; it is an economic incentive that actually works; it brings people into employment. With regard to some of the available amounts that people have in the cash assistance system today, for example. a couple with two children, who after paying taxes, rent, heating, electricity and day care have DKK 15,300. In the case of payments which are a few hundred kroner away from what a corresponding family has if they take a job at the minimum wage of e.g. The HK area or in industry, i.e. minimum wages, as the Danish trade union movement has said o.k. to. Is it not a problem for a Social Democrat that the trade union movement and employers agree some wages and that we then simply create some systems where we say, like, that we don't care about that? You can also be in the cash assistance system, and you can get pretty much as much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008110155	Thank you! Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008110158	Yes, but let me try to answer this: when, as I am in favour of the right and the duty and the rules of availability, both in terms of cash benefits and in terms of cash benefits, it must of course be the case that it has a consequence if you do not comply with the rules. It is also an economic incentive that you can lose your daily allowance if you are not available for the labour market. We, as Social Democrats, are strongly in favour of this. It is not because I have to repeat myself, but I would say that in the field of cash aid we did not just reduce the benefits; we did well to reduce the benefits for the group of young people who are deemed to be able to go on training and therefore have to be able to cope with an SU. We did not reduce the benefit for those young people who are hampered by mental vulnerability, massive social problems and who may have very difficult conditions of upbringing behind them. And that is what I would like to make a distinction between. Work must pay off, and so can 99 per cent. of those who are part of the Danish labour market. But we just have to focus in this discussion also on the fact that the low benefits do not get everyone into work, and that there will therefore be children growing up in families with very, very low availability amounts, and this is causing some other problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008110308	Thank you. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008110311	I would really like an answer as to whether, as a Social Democrat, it is not a problem for us to short-circuit the agreements made by the social partners. They agree some salaries, the trade union movement agrees with those salaries, and then we introduce some benefits which are virtually as high as what can be earned by taking a job. And then you can talk about the rules of availability from now on to eternity, but the reality is that we can just see that for those groups that get very little from being at work, the employment rate is much, much lower than for everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008110349	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008110353	It is, in fact, an important debate that we are about to have now, but unfortunately it ends because Mr. Joachim B. Olsen can't come back with questions. I wish he could, because with that, sir. Joachim B. Olsen also says that for the vast majority of people in the cash assistance system there is no incentive problem. For the vast majority are single, by the way men, and the distance from what you can receive as a single cash benefit recipient over 30 years, and the minimum wage is great. Where there is cross-pressure is for families, and that cross-pressure arises alone, because we know that there are some children in those families. And all I ask is for everyone to recognise that there is a dilemma in putting the benefits down a lot when we know that all mothers and fathers are not going to work for that reason. There are still some children who need to grow up, a daily life, a life to hang together, and it will be difficult with the low benefits that have been introduced now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008110445	Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Unfortunately, there is no time for further brief remarks. I would like to make it clear that we really must try to keep to the speaking time. There are so many people who would very much like to, and that gives the debate a little more life, the more brief remarks there are. It is the case that when the President starts to stand, speaking time is very close to being exceeded. And when the President gets up, the speaking time is exceeded. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008110513	Thank you. And thank you to the Prime Minister for his opening speech on Tuesday. Tuesday was a party day, it was democracy's party day, and everything in here was dressed in a party costume. The royal family came as guests, and it was all enjoyable. And after hearing the Prime Minister's opening speech and enjoying ourselves with it, we in the Danish People's Party went down and ate birthday cake. It was an extra festive day for us, because at the same time we had a 20th birthday. It was also pleasing to see that there were people from other parties who had passed by to taste the good cake. Well, that is not what I have to dwell on too much now, because now it is about the important issues that the Prime Minister also mentioned in his opening speech. I would like to start from the refugee/migratory situation that we have faced in Europe in recent weeks and months, and which has set the agenda to such an extent. In fact, I think it illustrates how serious the situation is and also that we should look at how to help in a new way. Instead of just doing more of the same, you have to redesign the way we help. In the European Union there is a discussion about whether we can divide ourselves out of the problem: what if we can distribute 160,000 refugees and migrants, then we have solved the problem? No, of course you haven't, and the Danes have seen that through a long time ago. It's symptom therapy; it takes other things. After all, what is needed is for people to be helped in their vicinity, for them not to move, and for them to move, it is not the case that, by being illegal in Europe, we can receive special treatment, a particularly positive treatment, but that we are being helped in our neighbourhood. If we are to get it up and make it work, we need more help in the neighbourhoods, but we also need to tell those who come to Europe illegally that this is not the way to get extra help. This requires that there is some control at the borders. When we released border controls in 2001 for Denmark and entered Schengen, we were promised that the external borders would be in place. I think most people who have observed what has happened in recent months can well see that the external borders are not controlled, are not in place. A country like Hungary that tries to do so is being kissed. It gives pictures you don't like, and you say it's not the way to do it. And I just have to ask those who criticise Hungary: what are the countries that make up the external border supposed to do? I don't think there's much to say about it. As regards the conditions here in Denmark, it is obvious that fewer people need to be helped here in Denmark and that more people need to be helped in their vicinity. The number has been said by many and I am glad that more and more people are doing it. That is why we are also very pleased that we, together with the government and other parties, have taken this immediate action, which is doing something about the conditions for those who come here, so that it becomes less attractive to seek asylum exactly in Denmark. And, of course, we want to go further along that path, also to ensure that what many say is a temporary protection that you get in Denmark, in fact there are many things in the field of immigration that we need to address, so we have the assurance that those who come to Denmark will of course come to Denmark, and I should just like to remind you that in 2011 our expenditure on asylum, family reunification and integration was 2.9 billion. kr. In 2015, i.e. this year, the expectation in spring was that expenditure would be at a level of 9.2 billion. kr., i.e. an increase of 6.3 billion. kr. You can imagine how many people in need you could actually help around the world for that kind of money. We have been tightening up the rules on citizenship, in other words who can acquire citizenship in this country. We have a very topical case going on in the judicial system, which I think shows many Danes that there is a need to focus very strongly on who is being given permanent protection in Denmark and who can commit real crime and be protected by some rules and cannot be deported. Of course, if you come to Denmark as a foreigner, you have to behave properly and not commit crime and put society at risk. Our aim in such a policy is to maintain our social structure, in the Danish values. It is to ensure coherence and community in Danish society. It is also to ensure that we can have universal welfare services that ensure the Danes a very good treatment, also proper treatment when you are in need and you need help. It also has something to do with the conditions relating to the rights of migrant workers in the European Union. If you can walk to another country in the European Union and benefit immediately from the welfare benefits that are in that country, then of course it challenges the country's ability to have such benefits. Then we must ensure the Danish welfare society, ensure the cohesion that we have and guarantee universal welfare rights, we will have to deal with it. Britain, for example, does. with the course they have set in the European Union. The Danish People's Party believes that we should actively support Britain's course, and we should also see how the fight they are conducting can in fact be of benefit to us. I think most people know the cases of children's checks and allowances, etc., which can be taken out of the country and can see that it is not working. We need to reschedule those rules. It is also one of the things that is needed to counteract social dumping. Indeed, we want to reduce the European Union and no more the European Union, and that is one of the points where the Prime Minister and I look at things a little differently. We will have a referendum on the reservation of law on 3 December. The Prime Minister recommends that you vote yes. I recommend voting no, thank you. The funny thing is that you never ask the people if the people want less EU. People are always asked whether they want more EU, and that is what is planned for 3 December. There is one thing I would like to thank the Prime Minister for in connection with the opening speech and this subject. It is that the Prime Minister made it crystal clear that on 3 December, too, we will be voting on the EU's asylum and immigration policy. It was a surprise. It wasn't in the script that was made. The fact is, however, that when the Prime Minister and other parties need to start talking about guarantees that we will not use an authorisation granted by the people on 3 December, if we vote 'yes', it is precisely because it is also part of what we are voting on on 3 December. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense at all. So I really thought it was very positive that the Prime Minister gave us that information. We must ensure growth and prosperity in Denmark. We must have good conditions for production. For example, agriculture and fisheries are in trouble, and this also means that if we are to have a Denmark in balance and ensure growth and production throughout the country, there is something, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of the agricultural sector that we need to be aware of. It is good that the initiative has been taken to move almost 4 000 jobs out of the capital. Well, it's an element of this... of creating a Denmark in balance. We will actively work to ensure that the plan becomes reality and also to see whether it should be a first stage, whether we should go further. In any case, we think that it is good tactics and new tactics, which are also part of the fact that there is a new political majority after the elections that this happens. The prosperity that we must ensure through productive business must ensure core welfare. We need to strengthen the health sector. We are pleased that it appears that 2.4 billion can be set aside. kr. extra next year for our health sector. Overcrowding must be combated. We need to secure our care for the elderly. There is a survived task for the financial law negotiations in relation to the municipal agreement on this older billion. We think there should be a dignified billion. Municipalities must be obliged to guarantee dignity to citizens. We must ensure a police force that can provide security, and this is really one of the huge tasks that has been handed down by the previous majority: the economy of the police is sailing. From January, there is no money for the police we know today. So only to ensure that there is even a police force at the level we have today will require extra money. In addition, additional funds must be provided to ensure a more visible police force capable of providing security. Just so that it is also mentioned here, I would like to say that this is also a debate on border controls. It can easily be a dispute over words, but I think most Danes have it like me, namely that border controls are something that is going on at the border and that it requires some personnel standing at the border who can be vigilant and intervene if needed. Border controls are not only electronic license plate scanners that you may have installed, and then you think that is the intelligent form of border control. So we are going to have a really strong job in the police negotiations on this too. In general, there is a busy year ahead of us, and we look forward to the work. We also need to negotiate an unemployment benefit reform. We hope that there is a willingness to look constructively at it in the light of the work that has now been done on the Daily Money Commission, but of course with the curls that we can politically put on it and which can ensure a daily allowance system that can create peace and security for a great many Danes, including in the coming, hopefully many, years. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I would like to make the following comments: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that, unfortunately, the government's check-ups show that the public finances are in a worse condition than those of the previous government before the elections. It has not been responsible. Too many are outside the labour market. Therefore, the aim is for more people to be on the labour market to be fewer on public support. Growth and prosperity are prerequisites for welfare. Therefore, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to improve the framework conditions of Danish companies, to facilitate tax on labour income when possible, and to strengthen core welfare. The Danish Parliament notes that there is a need to ensure growth and development in all parts of Denmark. The Danish Parliament notes that the former government's policy on foreigners failed, among other things: not adequately guaranteed self-reliance among resident foreigners. For this reason, the Folketing notes with satisfaction that the immediate action has had an effect and that the citizenship agreement points in the same direction. However, there is a need for further tightening in the area of foreigners. • V 2).
ParlaMint-DK_20151008111601	Thank you. There are a number of questions, and I will just read their names: Nicolai Wammen, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Pernille Skipper, Rasmus Nordqvist, Morten Østergaard, Pia Olsen Dyhr, Søren Pape Poulsen, Magnus Heunicke, Pelle Dragsted, Louise Schack Elholm, Dan Jørgensen and Sofie Carsten Nielsen. These are the ones we think we will achieve if the speaking time is respected. Then there are a number of people who would also like to, but now we see how things are going. The first question is Mr. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008111630	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Thulesen Dahl for the speech. After the parliamentary elections, Mr. Thulesen Dahl, that if we are to have a proper welfare in Denmark, we need a growth of 0.8%. However, when the government presented its draft Finance Bill, it turned out that it was less than half of what was proposed, which is why it was exciting to hear DF's reaction. And it came by signing in advance, before the negotiations had even started, for such a low growth. That is why my question to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Why has the Danish People's Party thrown the towel into the ring even before the negotiations have started, and is this really the way to get the most influence, i.e. by standing outside the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008111719	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008111722	Now, of course, we are ahead of the financial law negotiations, and that is where we must negotiate the economy as well. Is it true that we do not achieve a real growth rate of 0.8%? Next year? Yeah, I think that's right. Is it the same as the fact that we cannot raise the core priorities that we have in relation to the financial bill? No, I don't think so. Our core desire, as they were in the election campaign and as they are after the election campaign, is that we strengthen our health care. I believe that there are important areas in our health area that are lagging behind the previous government. The regions have been working on major austerity plans, the cost of medicines has run out of hand, and there is a real need for more money to be put in. I believe that we need to strengthen our care for the elderly, and I also mentioned this in my speech, and that is some of what we are going to go to the negotiations with. I believe that, following the municipal agreement, there is clearly a need to address that precisely in the financial negotiations. We want to ensure a better police force, where the previous government has also left a huge bill that we have to pick up. We need to start negotiations on this, and it will be hard, it will be hard, and it will require some money, and of course we will have to work to find them. I believe that this can be done with the appropriate goodwill, including on the part of the government, but I do not know anything about it yet, so we have to come back to that when we see how the negotiations are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008111833	Sir. Nicolai Wammen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008111836	I hear a very, very long wish list from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti about what you want, but at the same time you also say that you have gone away from how much money you need to spend. That is why the question is simply: are you prepared to accept the 0.3 per cent that the government has put forward as a framework, and do you think Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl seriously that, after the Danish People's Party has been out to sign for the government's initiative, he has more influence in standing outside the government than he would have had by being part of a government where the Danish People's Party would even have been the largest party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008111917	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008111920	That, sir. Nicolai Wammen asks whether we are releasing some of our priorities in advance, whether we are giving up the fight for better health care in advance, whether we are giving up the fight for better care for the elderly in advance, whether we are giving up the fight for a better police force in advance. And there's the answer: No, we don't. Can this be done within the financial framework that exists? It depends on whether we are prepared to meet, whether we are prepared to give priority to expenditure, as we think it is sensible. We have a proposal from the Finance Act, which is, of course, about converting part of development aid into money that can be used at home for better health, for example. This is a priority that we support. So that way you can find some money somewhere else and spend actively somewhere else. Is it going up in the end? After all, we will only know that when the negotiations are concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112002	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112006	Thank you for that, President. And thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the fine speech. There are many things and long stretches where we agree, and that is a good start. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentions a number of requests for financial law negotiations. After all, we also have a number of wishes, and we have put them forward in the government's draft budget. It is this way in life that there is something more important than anything else, and I suppose that for the Danish People's Party there is something more important than anything else in these negotiations. How does the Danish People's Party view that priority when the cashier's check-out shows a little depressing what it does?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112042	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112044	I think it is a pity that the check-up shows what it is doing. That's right, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen says that the economic conditions which we were promised by the previous government in June, when we had the parliamentary elections, apparently do not hold water. We feared little about the expenditure left by the previous government, i.e. the bills that were left behind and that were unpaid. But that the scope is, as described in the cashier's checkup, something came astounds us. It is clear that this is an important priority exercise. It also means that we need to give targeted priority to what are some of our things that are the most important for 2016. I have made it crystal clear that when, for example, it reaches... As regards health with our hospitals, when it comes to care for the elderly, when it comes to the possibilities for the police to be a police force that creates security for the Danes, I would say that these are some of our very highest priorities in the negotiations that are coming. Then it is, of course, by making some changes in the field of foreign affairs, re-entering some things into development aid and so on. We think this is a sensible way of doing it, and hopefully we will be able to get good agreements on this in the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112156	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112159	Thank you very much. I recognise that the economic situation is not what we would like. What does it mean in relation to the slightly longer perspective that some of these priorities will be moved to later financial agreements? Or is this all something you want to have in the Finance Act for this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112216	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112219	It's gonna be an exciting discussion. Because I could, of course, turn it around and ask the same question to the government and ask whether that means that some of the things that have been put into the draft budget that the government wants are, in fact, also some that could be pushed a little, and that is, of course, a discussion that we need to have to find out how the ends can reach together. But it is clear that we went to the polls to ensure that the core welfare was guaranteed. When the money after the check-up turns out to be less, it does not reduce our desire for the core welfare to be guaranteed, but then it is a question of how we can ensure that very carefully, and of course we are happy to take that discussion. However, we are not going from our point of view, as they were also presented in the election campaign, in relation to the fact that there are some cornerstones of the welfare society that the Danes can rightly expect to work optimally. And there we have been left with some challenges on e.g. Health and the police area that we need to take care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112313	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112322	Thank you for that, and happy birthday. I would like to ask a little about the issue of cuts in the municipalities. 'Cause we're hearing today, too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that we must defend the core welfare, just as we heard these promises during the election campaign that the Danish People's Party does not contribute to zero growth or minus growth, and I think that was very positive. Because that really means that there is a majority of parties in this Parliament who, before the elections, have clearly announced that zero growth or minus growth in municipal welfare is completely unthinkable. What is going to be exciting is that that majority is now being put to the test. After all, the Left has put forward a bill which sets the framework for the municipal economy, i.e. this famous bill on expenditure ceilings. I have it here and it is clear that in the years to come it is now being proposed to steal money from the municipalities, i.e. around 2.4 billion. kr. a year, summing up to about 7 billion. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 billion kr. I guess it's such a blow on the bag that about 21,000 home care workers or other public servants have to be dismissed. So my question is actually quite simple: can we count on us, of course, having the Danish People's Party on the team voting no to this bill as it stands here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112429	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112432	Thank you. In other words, our starting point is clear, and I have explained this to you, and this is something that has been endorsed, namely that we do not believe that money should be taken from the municipalities. We respect the right of municipalities to negotiate with the current government. That is also what was a debate about with the Social Democratic President up here earlier and if you make a voluntary agreement with the government, we recognise it. But we are also saying that if you cannot reach a voluntary agreement which you think is satisfactory on the part of the municipalities, then you can not make it, and then we in here have to determine the municipal economy. It will then be our starting point that what may be found in the form of a re-prioritisation contribution to the municipalities should be converted to activities for core welfare that take place through the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112513	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112516	I've seen you out with it in the Politiken some time ago, and I'd like to acknowledge it positively, but what I'm asking you about now is the bill that needs to be adopted here in connection with the Finance Act and which sets the framework. Because it sets the framework for what the municipalities can expect to have next year, and that will also provide the framework for the negotiations in the spring to which you refer. So I just want to repeat my question: can the Danish People's Party vote for a proposal that means that year by year in the next four years you will steal 2.4 billion. kr. and thus introduce not only zero growth, but minus growth, into the municipalities? I hope that I can get such a reasonably clear answer, yes or no, to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112548	Thank you for that, and you don't address each other directly. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112553	No. My answer to what is our political starting point, what is our political point of view, is that this is what must govern what is happening in the real world. After all, with the ceilings laid down in the budget law, they are, of course, directly governing the coming year and are then guiding for the following years. But you can easily, even in subsequent years, furniture around the overall ceilings so that you can redistribute the money in relation to where the money is spent in the public sector. It is, in fact, the last decisions taken by this Parliament that apply, and that is why I put so much emphasis on this point by saying that if the municipalities choose to make a voluntary agreement with the government, we respect it. And if they don't and we're sitting with the municipal economy in here, I've also indicated exactly what kind of conditions we're going to have to apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112641	Thank you. Then the next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112647	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the speech. It is always exciting to hear about parties' priorities. I will go back to some of that, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned at the beginning of his speech precisely about the restructuring of development aid and refugees etc. After all, this year and next year it is decided to cut development aid extremely sharply on the Danish side, but at the same time we are talking about help in the neighbourhoods, and the neighbourhoods here are Syria. However, if we look a little further ahead, our development aid will help to ensure that we do not experience armed conflicts. So these neighbourhoods are likely to get bigger and bigger by cutting development, cutting the work that we are doing through the United Nations. Well, then, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is not also afraid that it can be a little symptom treatment only to help in the neighbourhood and not to go out and help in the development work?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112739	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112743	With what we have proposed on development aid, Denmark is still among the countries in the world that provide absolutely the most development aid in terms of our size, and I think we should be. So in this way I can agree with the questioner that it is good that Denmark is out there and is active. At the same time, however, I believe that we must place greater emphasis on what we then use in the neighbourhoods. A large part of making countries work better is something that must happen in the countries themselves. After all, we have a discussion about how few years may pass before we have to stop talking about countries like poor countries, but where there is also something to do with the structure of a society, about whether there is any redistribution within society itself. It is just to say that I therefore think it is sensible that in the longer term we should also contribute more in the disaster areas, where aid must come in emergency, which can, of course, relieve people from otherwise feeling compelled to flee or be migrants to Europe, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112845	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112848	Well, just when we see this help in the neighbourhoods, in conflict areas, these conflicts often arise because there has been previous poverty. There may be a shortage of resources, there may be major disasters in relation to climate development, etc. - Sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl does not agree with me that it will be symptom treatment to go out and help only in the vicinity? That is what we come to with the cuts we see. We are cutting massively the development aid that should actually improve the conditions of many countries in Africa, because we need to spend the money in the neighbourhood. Well, then, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl doesn't agree that it becomes a symptom treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112923	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008112926	No, I wouldn't call it symptom treatment. In the case of people sitting in refugee camps in Syria's immediate vicinity who cannot get enough food vouchers because the UN is cutting it, I think it is absolutely essential that we provide funds to ensure that we actually get the supplies we need in the refugee camps in the neighbourhood. I would not in any way describe that as secondary or superficial. It's important that we do it. Does this mean that we must give greater priority to helping them? Yes, and I think that makes sense, because this gives these people greater faith that they will actually be helped in that area until they can hopefully return to their homeland at some point. That is the whole purpose of the fact that there is also a great deal of international activity in relation to what needs to be done in relation to Syria in order to get rid of the huge conflicts in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113019	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left, is next.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113028	I would also like to congratulate the Danish People's Party on its anniversary. What is exciting is whether we can translate the fine results and the many years into political results. And much of the discussion over the last few years has, of course, been about breaking promises, and there I would say on my own behalf that I have never had anything against breaking promises, as long as people changed their minds in my direction. That is why I have only had credit for the decision of the current Prime Minister to take 1,000 refugees as part of a common EU solution to the refugee challenge. But at the national meeting of the Danish People's Party I could see that one had to understand Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who probably almost made himself an overjudge in the discussion that it was not thought to be a breach of promise. So, the Prime Minister who came to power to stop the influx of asylum to Denmark has not committed a breach by bringing in 1,000 refugees from outside. That's where I'm gonna ask you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: How many refugees can the Prime Minister draw from outside in the wider perspective before it becomes a breach of promise in the view of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113124	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113128	We do not think it was a good idea for Denmark to agree to accept a share in the quota debate that is in the European Union, because we believe that it is trying to address something in a completely wrong way. I mentioned this in my rapporteur's speech: I believe that assistance needs to be provided in the neighbourhoods. It should not be the case that, by means of smugglers, they enter Europe illegally and then get a foot inside and get extra help. So basically, I think it's wrong. The breach I have to deal with was about getting fewer people to Denmark. And can it be said at this stage that we do not have the opportunity to ensure that there are fewer people seeking asylum in Denmark? No, we cannot say that, and that is why I said as I did and as Mr. Morten Østergaard referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113208	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113211	Yes, I am going to draw a little attention to the President, because I know that the President is very concerned to answer the questions that are being asked. My question was, of course, how many more refugees the Prime Minister could fetch to Denmark as part of an EU distribution before the Danish People's Party would call it a breach of promise. I have understood the Danish People's Party like this and we have been part of this debate together for many years that the number actually matters. Therefore, it could be nice enough today to get a figure from the Danish People's Party for when it becomes a breach of the promise. I would just like to call on the Prime Minister to continue consistently to break his hopeless promise of foreign policy so that we can take Denmark's share of the shared responsibility in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113249	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113251	But what I was asked to relate to was a promise that there would be fewer. One had to measure whether there were fewer people coming to Denmark. And there I just say in all silence that you can't conclude anything on that yet. We have some efforts to make for fewer people to come to Denmark, because that is true, Mr President. Morten Østergaard says the number matters. If it is to be successful with those who come to Denmark, if they are to be integrated into Danish society and not live in a parallel society, and we have been able to see that historically, then the number really means something. This is a discussion in which I have found it very difficult to convince Mr. Morten Østergaard on the truth of it, but I must keep trying, because at some point the Radical Left must also accept that there is such a connection in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113331	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113338	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl stressed in his speech that the Danish People's Party would like to ensure welfare. Therefore, I just have to ask a few questions about the fact that in July the Danish People's Party voted in favour of the government's re-priority contribution... some have also called it the green harvester... because according to the Ministry of Finance, this will mean 11,000 layoffs in the municipalities until 2019. It is a figure that you can find in Berlingske from 26 September. Now the Danish People's Party is going to negotiate finance law, and I would like to ask whether the rapporteur here today will reject the fact that the Danish People's Party is contributing to a financial law which does not make up for these savings which, of course, have consequences for, among others, the Danish People's Party. the care of the elderly in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113422	Thank you. And you still don't use away direct indictment. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113426	I mean, we are going to the financial law negotiations with, among other things. the aim of strengthening the care of the elderly, which takes place in the municipalities. And it is clear that it is a targeted effort that we want to make, recognising that there will also be more care-intensive elderly people, more demented elderly people, and this will require more resources, and we want to set them off and target them for the work of elderly care in the municipalities. We went to the polls for that, and we are also trying to put it into practice in the real world. The discussion on the re-priority contribution, to which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr refers, can be divided into two: one is a fundamental debate on whether it is good to have something like this, that is to say whether it is good to have the exercise, that one is trying to look at whether the money in the public sector can be used in a different way, and the other is about what the money that might come out of it should be spent on. Because if they are used in the public sector, if they are spent on nuclear welfare, then they will go in the other direction, in relation to the fact that more can then be employed in those areas. And that is really what the debate should be about, not just seeing one side of the story, but seeing the overall picture of how the public sector is going to develop.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113530	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113533	I'm not used to that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl· is an informal speech, but I would say the rapporteur rather than, if it is better for the President. I do not think the rapporteur is giving a clear answer, and I would therefore like to try again. Can the Danish People's Party enter into an agreement on next year's Finance Act, where the municipalities will continue to have to fire home helpers, which means that the money being re-priorityd will not return to the care of the elderly in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113601	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113604	If we get our demands across in relation to the financial law negotiations, there will be more money available in the municipalities next year than there is this year. Is it then a question of trying to target some of the funds for some of the areas that we think are really in need? Yes, of course it is an expression of it. So in this way we are also trying more to direct some of the money spent in the public sector towards the things that we chose to prioritise, and that is, among other things, what we were trying to do. the elderly area. So that is what we are working for in the financial law negotiations, starting with what is called set-up meetings, tomorrow, and then we will have to assess how far we have come and also take the discussion in this Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113642	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113649	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the speech. After all, we agree on many things, and I will just have to confirm today that it may be that we agree on one more thing. Because I was so happy after the Conservatives' summer group meeting, where we were out to report that we wanted a freeze on the ground. It was received by the Danish People's Party's Financial Rapporteur, Mr. René Christensen, by that he said: a freeze is not an idea that has grown in our backyard, but it may be a solution until there comes a permanent solution. I just want to know if it's Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's view that it could be a solution. After all, there are also many families of children, the elderly, pensioners who have bought and paid their own home and who now have to move away from it because of high housing taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113734	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113737	I would like to admit that in our economic priorities there is no room for a freeze on the ground. When other parties make that proposal, they must of course also point out the economic consequences and how to find the money for it. I can't tell you that. What I can say, and in which I think there is a good logic, is that we should look at whether we should be more careful to help, for example, a pensioner or someone else who is in a situation of economic crisis and who, because of higher ground causes, simply has to move from home and home. Can you find a better way there, for example? allow people to freeze or the like. It's an instrument you know. Is this kind of instrument something we need to spread out? Because I fully recognise that there are examples of people who really feel compelled from house to home because of the increases in the blame. But, of course, I also have to be completely honest in this area and say that in my economic policy I do not have the room to pay for a freeze on the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113838	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113842	I take this as a half commitment that we may at some point be able to talk about it. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this is a serious matter and I agree that, of course, we must give priority to it. Everything that we are bringing in now and that we are going to discuss with the Minister for Finance is, of course, priorities. You can get the taxes frozen, but it is, of course, until there is no more value, and it must also be at the heart of the Danish People's Party that older people, pensioners, wherever they live in the country, should not be chased from house and home because of taxes. I'm sure of it, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will agree with me too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113917	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113920	There are pensioners, there are people with a poor economy who can be in a life situation after divorce or whatever it may be, that is, who are in a special situation, and that is also why I say that I recognise that there have certainly been examples of people having the challenges that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is talking about. Of course, we would like to look at these in the debates that come in different contexts. I am just saying that if you freeze the ground blame, it is also something that has some financial consequences that you have to take into account in the negotiating picture, and I look forward to seeing what Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen will point out.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008113957	The next one is sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114006	I am listening very carefully when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl talks about our welfare societies and talks about the elderly, about health policy and about the promise that needs to be made by the police. I do this because until the election we heard from the Danish People's Party that it was thought that there was a need for growth of 0.8%. Why? That is what we have also recognised a long time ago and can see, namely that we are fortunately getting older in Denmark. That is good, but it also requires some more money for care, and there is a need to invest. There is also what we have a position on as Social Democrats. Our growth rate thought we were a little lower than the one you had before the election. But now I understand that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in his reply to my colleague Mr. Nicolai Wammen, but also here in the debate in general, says that it is now not 0.8%, because now it is suddenly 0.3%. And frankly, I can't make that fit. I'm looking at the Danish People's Party's website • Your country, your election, says so finely and it's a quote from an article, and it's from before the election, I might have to point out, because there's obviously a difference: The Danish People's Party supports a new bourgeois prime minister, but hasn't given up its demand for a public growth of 0.8%. So now we have to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114120	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114123	As I also explained before, we have a number of priorities on which we have chosen in relation to our health sector, the fight against overcrowding in hospitals, in relation to our care for the elderly, in relation to our police. There are some challenges there that we think are so serious that we need to solve them. We are going to the negotiations with that. But when we then assess what it takes to solve everything we would like, we have set real growth rates of 0.8%. Is it possible to make an agreement where you do not land on it and then solve the challenges? It depends on whether you want to re-prioritize in the right way, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. can go to solving the challenges of health care, etc. There's the immigration area. I mentioned, of course, that in 2011 we had expenditure... that is public expenditure on asylum and accommodation, etc. of 2.9 billion kr. It had risen to 9.2 billion. kr. This year. So if you go the other way again, you also free up some money that you can spend on the elderly and hospitals etc. It is, of course, the sum of what has to be decided whether or not we achieve a satisfactory result. Then we will have a debate on it when we hopefully achieve it in a satisfactory way, and then we will, of course, be responsible for whether it adequately promises the priorities on which we went to the polls. This is what we know very well to be measured and weighed on to some extent as well. We are, of course, very happy to take that fight and that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114238	Sir. Magnus Heunicke, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114241	It was a very, very long speech stream, and thank you very much for it. There we have to go down and look at what is on the bottom line after that speech stream, and that is that it was said before the elections that a demand for public growth of 0.8% had not been waived, but that this has now been abandoned. We have to understand that. Because you can only re-prioritize in the public sector. Then I have a question, and it might be nice to have an answer from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Is it the case that the Danish People's Party can see itself in an agreement that is within the new framework of 0.3 per cent that the government has now set up? Is it the case that you can see yourself in it? i.e. Feed the dog with its own tail, as I think DF himself has said? It's 0.3%. Something you can accept, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114331	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114334	I just have to remind you that in the proposal we saw from the previous government, a technical projection had been made from 2015 to 2016, which operated with zero growth. And then you say that you couldn't take that at face value, and that you had to look at it a little bit. I would just like to say that what we are seeing here today from the Socialist side is a hokuspocus, I must admit. I am asked whether the priorities on which we were elected stand in the way of raising the core welfare level in the areas we want? Yeah, totally. Can this be done with the economy that we ourselves would like to see completed? Yes, it can. Can it be done with an economy where there is influence from other parties that do not want to spend quite so much, but who would like to re-prioritize some things? After all, we will know when the negotiations are over whether that will be possible. But where it lands, I do not know today, because it would be quite a fortune teller if I could say today how the financial negotiations starting tomorrow will end. But should we then be accountable for the result that comes out of it? Yes, we do, and we are happy to do so, even in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114431	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114440	Sorry, I was just getting a little confused down here. I would like to ask a similar question, for this summer Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was confronted with the fact that some council members from the Danish People's Party had helped to reduce the elderly in their municipalities. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl did not believe that he had a responsibility for it, because, and I quote now, I take responsibility for whether or not we are helping to secure the municipalities an economy, so that, among other things, we can do something about it. can give priority to the elderly. In other words, it is said that responsibility for the municipalities' ability to give priority to our older fellow citizens is located here at Christiansborg, and I agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl i. So what I just don't understand is why the Danish People's Party can now add votes to a municipal agreement that overall cuts, as far as I understand, 500 million. kr. from the possibilities of the municipalities, even if there are more older citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114539	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114542	Yes, it is because you have to take the municipal agreement and a financial agreement into account. In other words, I have already set out our priorities for the budget negotiations on several occasions this morning, and I have also made it clear that we are giving priority to the elderly, we are giving priority to the care of the elderly. We are starting from the fact that there will be more, among other things. With dementia, the coming years, which require that there are more people, including at night, for example. at care centres that can help the elderly who have help needs. We will come up with a proposal to set aside some money for that. And then it is the sum of the municipal agreement and what determines whether you actually have an economy in the municipalities that will then be able to raise the elderly in a proper way. That is what we are pursuing, and in this way we are lifting what we also said in the election campaign that we wanted to do in relation to the area of the elderly. We stand by that completely, of course even here after the elections, and that is what we are going to go hard on in the negotiations that will take place over the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114639	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114642	I can understand that. That, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says now that if the Finance Act to be made is to be made with the Danish People's Party, it must bring so much money back to the municipalities that we can ensure a boost and a consequence of demographic development as far as our older fellow citizens are concerned. Just to understand it perfectly correctly: Is the conclusion of that, sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl is saying right now, not that the Danish People's Party promises that a Finance Act will ensure that there is an opportunity to increase care for our older fellow citizens, also an ordinary resident of the nursing home or user of home help?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114728	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114731	Well, if we get our wishes implemented, it will be the case that there will be a better economy to help our older fellow citizens. Then I would just ask quite openly: where is there a special need in relation to our older fellow citizens? There are, among other things. the places where the most caring people actually are. And in some situations it is of course at home, but in many situations it is also at the care centers we have where people have been cut out during the night hours, so there is little help to get if you need help for some of the hours of the day. But for a dement, it is not the case that one necessarily has complete control of day and night. That's one of the things that can happen when you get hit by dementia. So it takes you to have some more power at these care centers to help these people. This is something that we are going to go hard on in the negotiations that are about to take place. And then, of course, we are prepared to discuss whether we will reach the goal when the negotiations are concluded and how far we have come. We hope, of course, that we will get a long way, because then we will solve the task we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114836	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114841	Thank you. I would like to return to this with numbers, because it is something that the Danish People's Party often cares about other parties answering. I have to understand by Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's earlier reply that the Prime Minister is free to enter into voluntary agreements to take an unknown number of refugees in the EU, also forward-looking, without being accused of a breach of the promise by the Danish People's Party. I just have to ask quite simply: is that understood correctly yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114919	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114921	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114923	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114925	Thank you. That was a nice clear answer. Well, then I'll ask Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: How many refugees can the Prime Minister agree with the EU to go voluntarily in the future without being accused of breaching Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114942	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008114945	We do not think that Denmark should enter into a quota distribution of refugees in the European Union. What the promise referred to is tied up is a promise that we must measure up to the fact that there will be fewer people in Denmark, and of course we intend to keep the Prime Minister up to that. That's his own statement. Then you can go back and see what it will mean, that there will be fewer. So it kind of gives itself what it is that you are measured on. It is, after all, in relation to the promise that has been made. Does it satisfy our ambitions, overall, in terms of how to help refugees in need? No, it does not, because we believe that it is possible to help far more refugees in need by completely redeploying the way we help, so that it is not about the fact that by means of human smugglers it can get its foot inside Denmark, but that it is about helping much better in the neighbourhoods where the refugees are in large numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115036	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115044	Thank you. ATP recently demonstrated that housing benefits are essential in order to prevent poverty in old age. After all, the government's draft Finance Act lays down among other things. This will mean that many elderly people will no longer be able to afford to live in something as trivial as an elderly home. Therefore, I would really like to know whether the Danish People's Party, in the context of the Finance Act, will help to reduce the conditions for the elderly. For now we have just heard from the chairman of the Danish People's Party that it does not want to, but does it also apply to the housing allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115114	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115117	Yeah, it really does. Our starting point is that it is one of the times in the draft budget. I have noted the discussion as to whether it is technicalities that determine whether we should now have the rules more concrete, so that we pay what was originally intended, etc. But of course it doesn't matter to the person who receives a given benefit, a housing allowance, today; there will be a feeling that it will be harder for you to put it down. So that is, of course, one of the things that we have on our dosmer list in relation to the negotiations that are going to start. This is one of the things that is on our negative side and that we of course have some ambition to get a good look at the nails.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115155	Sir. Jonas Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115159	I would actually like to sign for that, and I also take a little as a promise from the Danish People's Party that you will not be a part of it. But let us return to this re-prioritisation contribution, as Mr. Magnus Heunicke asked about a little earlier. I do not think we really got a clear answer to that. What does the Danish People's Party mean by that? Now the budgets of the municipalities are being eroded by other means. Does the Danish People's Party really believe that this is a decent way to treat the municipalities and thus also the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115222	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115225	No, well, I'm dividing it into two things. I say that, on the one hand, you can have a discussion about whether a means such as a re-prioritisation contribution is sensible or not, so that you constantly shake the tree to find out where in the public sector you can spend the money better and, on the other hand, have a discussion about where the money that comes out of it is spent. In other words, if they are used on core welfare and are therefore still used in the public sector, then it can be a sensible exercise overall, but the two things are a little different. This is the discussion we are going to have in different contexts and which has also been asked about earlier here today. And that discussion is based on the fact that we have neither elected nor today's opinion that we should restrict the ability of the public sector to help those who need help, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115308	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115317	Thank you. The big cities must have room for students and single people, says the Danish People's Party website. That's very nice. The Danish People's Party also says somewhere else in BT that you want to prioritise efforts in relation to homelessness higher. Okay, that sounds very good. Then it is just that I do not quite understand how it can be that the Danish People's Party joins in abolishing the cheap housing scheme. I have tried to dig into that, and I understand that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is saying that there is no other way in which different groups, which do not have such high incomes, should have the opportunity to live in the city. This means abolishing the system, but the rapporteur cannot make a single suggestion as to how to ensure that people with ordinary and low incomes will be able to live in cities in the future. Mayor Frank Jensen estimates that it is 3,600 cheap dwellings that are being abolished in this way. And I want to hear now that the rapporteur is unable to answer the question whether it is the case that Kristian Thulesen Dahl, as chairman of the party, has an idea of what we are doing so that ordinary people can also live in the city in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115422	Sir. Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115426	There's just a few things. One is, of course, that this is not a new attitude on our part. I mean, we've always been sceptical about the part of the legislation that's about these expropriation-like conditions that you put in over it. We have had fundamental concerns about the way in which it has been done by the previous government, and that is just what we are expressing today. So in this way you can say that there is nothing new under the sun and that there can be no surprise in it. Does this mean that we have to stop talking about whether or not we can find other ways of securing cheap housing in our cities too? No, of course it doesn't, and we'd be happy to take that discussion. This is a little paradoxical, because when we talk about moving 4 000 jobs out of the capital, it might as well lead to less pressure in the housing sector. Well, there's a search for, among other things. The capital, which among other things... is also camping in these higher housing prices, which sit down in the entire housing market, and even though it is not exactly the homes you may need to rent yourself, it sits down through the row of homes. The question is, of course, whether such initiatives have an effect, but we are happy to discuss them. However, the proposal itself, to which Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil refers, was of course sceptical about when it was introduced, and we have of course continued to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115539	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115542	Now there are 1,000 new inhabitants coming to Copenhagen a month, so those 4,000 jobs I think may be enough as a tailor in hell with regard to this particular problem. Yes, it is so evidently ideological quabbes at the Danish People's Party that make people have to be without homes. Compared with the increase in homelessness over the last five years, which we have just received the latest new figures, we should just bear in mind that it is not people who are homeless because they have alcohol problems or mental problems necessarily. It is also a problem, but what is causing the large increase in homelessness in local communities is the lack of cheap housing. And here we are also talking about a time factor. There are people who can't find a place to stay ordinary people with regular jobs, with regular or low income. It is just amazing that ideological quabbes must stand in the way of solutions being created. I didn't hear sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl make a single offer of what to put in place. This is so relevant, because if you don't want this solution, what will the Danish People's Party want?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115637	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115640	Yes, but I actually think that part of the answer • and I acknowledge that only part of the answer • is a better balance for Denmark. The picture that is being drawn is that Copenhagen must be a city where more and more people are looking for, and where perhaps I do not know if it is the attitude of the Social Democratic Party • an increasing proportion of the Danish population must live. For then it is true that we will then have real housing challenges in Copenhagen in the years to come. On the other hand, if you have a Denmark in balance, where more of our activities take place around the country, then you also get a much more even distribution, which also has an impact on all sorts of challenges that are when many people choose to live on the same spot, for example. rising housing prices. So, of course, that discussion is also part of this. It may not have been solved as quickly as Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil would have liked, but it is also part of the long, tough move to do so. In relation to the specific proposal, I would just like to say that it is a scepticism we had when it came to the world under the previous government, and it is a scepticism we have today, and that is what we have expressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115742	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115751	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has often argued that for the Danish People's Party there is more influence sitting outside the government than being part of the government. It's a little weird to hear Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl criticises the government's acceptance of 1,000 extra refugees, criticises the way the government has dealt with the refugee crisis and criticises the government's financial bill for all the time that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself could have been Minister of Finance. The Danish People's Party could have had the position of Minister of Justice, and then you could have done it differently. But Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl may be able to explain it a little better to me and others by highlighting the best example of something that you have had an influence on that you would not have influenced if you had been part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115828	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115830	I think that both the immediate tightening-up and the agreement on citizenship are things that can go in the right direction. I also believe that the financial law negotiations will show this. Now, sir. Dan Jørgensen, of course, from a party which, at least over time, has used some statements to explain that one could not, the other and the third, because one was in government and was tied up in intergovernmental cooperation with the Radicals. I have noted with great pleasure the occasion here after the elections to try to break free from the Radicals in the field of foreigners. In other words, it shows a little that, when you sit in such an intergovernmental cooperation, you are obviously also limited in some areas, while after the elections you can now have a freer role. That, of course, is the balance that must always be made in relation to how much influence one has if one sits in government with some other parties. I mean, how much of the government base is your own policy? Otherwise, you're gonna have to run other people's politics. That is the thought we have made in concrete terms. Now you want to over the next few years, if everything is going to work out so that the government sits for years, but we assume that it does make it possible to find out if we have any influence on things. We have great ambitions for that. Then it will come to light whether my thesis, which I founded this summer, holds.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115942	Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008115951	Now, I kind of prayed, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to mention an example of having an influence on something that could not have been influenced if you were part of the government. Then Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is an agreement on citizenship, which the Socialists are also included in, and he mentions the immediate slowing down, which has not taken place, for the time the government has said yes to 1000 extra refugees, whom it would not have agreed to if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl had been in government. So if sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl can't mention a big thing, couldn't he just mention a little thing or just one thing that the Danish People's Party has got through that you wouldn't have got through if you had been in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120026	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120029	I think it is a complete understatement of the importance of the immediate tightening that actually took place. If the level of benefits had not changed very quickly after the elections, then I think that we would have had a different situation from the migration that has been going through Europe. The Danes have been able to see that people interviewed on the Danish motorways have said that exactly the lower benefits we received very quickly after the elections are a factor in not seeking asylum in Denmark. So I just want to say that I think the idea of imagining that it has no meaning and trying to override the meaning of it is wrong. That is also why one of the things we have asked the Social Democratic Party today is whether, in the search for a broad agreement on immigration policy, we will agree to that level of benefits or whether we will not. We still lack answers to that. But sir can. Dan Jørgensen contributed later in the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120117	Thank you. And the last one that will be available in this round of questions is Mrs Maja Panduro, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120125	I'd like to dwell a little on this issue of influence and just ask Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Has the Danish People's Party had a greater influence on the growth of public consumption by standing outside the government when you went to elections for an increase of 0.8%. And we now see the government's plan at 0.3%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120146	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120149	Well, first of all, we don't know what real growth is gonna be. There must be negotiations. Secondly, I also think it is brave of a social democrat who had his own technical projection from 2015 to 2016 at 0 per cent. in real growth, to stand up and say that it is so good enough too bad that you do not reach 0.8%. Next year. Thirdly, I also note, from the point of view of the government, that there must then be negotiations, that this is a starting point which, in fact, has also moved from parties that went to the polls on zero growth, but which do not have a policy now, which is about zero growth, to embrace a majority with a party that went to the polls on minus growth. So you could say that in relation to this starting point, we've come a bit along the way. Have we reached the finish line? No, we're not. We will be working on this in the coming years, of course we will. But I just think that this shows that there are some moves which, in the view of the Danish People's Party, are sensible moves in the direction that makes it possible to ensure the welfare that we believe must be guaranteed, among other things. In the area of health and the elderly. This is also true, for example. The framework of the police, where we from the previous government have been left with a huge backlog in the economy of the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120303	Mrs. Maja Panduro, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120306	So the conclusion that remains today is, in fact, that when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl before the election on the 0.8%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are saying that we are going to continue to say that these priorities are important. But the amount of money that the Danes were promised to fight for is obviously of equal importance now, because it is really a victory, one must also understand from the Danish People's Party's financial rapporteur that it is not at least zero growth. Should we understand that the growth in public consumption would have been lower than 0.3% if the Danish People's Party had joined the government, since, according to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is bigger now?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120348	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120351	The government has put forward its financial bill, and then there must be negotiations. Then we'll see where they land and then we'll take responsibility for what we agree to. I also still think it should be borne in mind that one of the challenges that Social Democracy has left us next year is to reduce corporation tax by one billion kroner. If you really meant something about this concern about public welfare, you could announce here today that you were prepared to renouncing that part of the 2012 tax agreement and spending that billion kroner in our welfare society. Well, it's just to say it. Because when we fought for what we did before the elections, it was one of them. on the grounds that we would like to spend such money on something else. Instead of lowering corporate tax, we would like to use that money for public welfare, but Social Democracy has prevented us from doing so, unfortunately, and that is why I think it is a little brave of the Social Democratic Party to enter this debate, but I would like to take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008120441	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008130024	The sitting is resumed. I shall now give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Seligman. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008130036	Thank you. A lot of people have disappeared during lunch. The voters chose a new Parliament on 18 June, and Denmark has a new government. In the first 100 days we have come a long way despite long periods of absence from meeting in here. The government has made agreements with all the parties of the Folketing except Enhedslisten. The government, together with the other blue parties, has carried out an immediate action which has contained an incalculable influx of asylum seekers. The government has, by a broad majority, reinstated the housing job scheme, giving families a hand in everyday life. The government has presented a financial bill that strengthens both core welfare and invests in Danish jobs. Then the government, together with a broad majority, has also found time to tighten up the lax requirements for Danish citizenship introduced under the previous government. We have come a long way in a short time and I would like to express my pleasure at having experienced such a constructive Parliament and such a constructive spirit. Imagine what we can achieve over the next four years. Because there is enough to tackle in our lovely country if we are to safeguard our welfare society in the future. Firstly, many Danes are outside the labour market. With a ceiling on cash benefits and with tax cuts for those with small labour incomes, we want to ensure that working is better worthwhile. Secondly, today's growth is concentrated primarily on the large cities. We will distribute state jobs more equally, give municipalities more freedom and provide the basis for companies across the country to create the growth we need. Thirdly, the chaotic refugee and migrant situation in Europe also affects Denmark. We take our share, we contribute to common solutions, but we must be able to keep up. That is why we are tightening up foreign policy. We are increasing aid in the neighbourhood and we are helping the EU to regain control of its external borders and to strengthen integration. Fourthly, health care lags behind in some places. There are still patients waiting unnecessarily long and there are large geographical differences. That is why we must strengthen health care and give patients more rights to opt for a private alternative if the public authorities cannot help patients within a reasonable period of time. These are the main priorities of the Left and, like most other things in the world, it costs money, but the box is empty. The cashier's check-up showed that public finances were far from being as good as the previous government's impressions. Council room up to 2020 of 39 billion. kr. was 31 billion. kr., and next year alone, the room for manoeuvre has been reduced by 3 billion. kr. So there's 3 billion. kr. less to make policy for when we have to meet the demands of the budget law. The former government drove the economy to the extreme. Next year you'll drive it across the border if you don't tighten it up. This isn't meant to be a complaining song, and it's not about pointing fingers. You agree to inheritance and debt when you take over government responsibility. However, this means that we must have the courage to prioritise sharper, because there is something more important than other things. And I would like to say quite clearly: better health care is more important than giving more money in development aid than the UN's objective. Tax relief for those with small labour incomes, so that working is better paid, is more important than more money for cash benefit recipients. Investment in growth and jobs across the country is more important than protecting the cultural area and education from quite reasonable efficiency requirements that other areas have been subject to for decades. Keeping taxes calm is more important than giving newcomers full access to high support and children's checks from the first day. And I could go on. There are some politicians who would like to give the impression that everything is affordable. We don't have that luxury. Although I could imagine a scenario in which I was carried through the streets by jubilant lots of Danes, thankful for the gentle gifts from Christiansborg, unfortunately this is not how the world works. Politics without prioritising are just words, and they are irresponsible words. Now I can see that the opposition is sitting and is being prepared with questions for me, and I look forward to answering them. But I would like to see whether the Folketing can also make it more efficient, so that we can get out a little wider than usual. So let me take it from the end with the most frequently asked questions. The Socialists will ask why we are cutting costs for children, education and research, when that is what we are going to live on in the future, with a wrong tone suggesting that in future Denmark will be reduced to a country of illiteracy, while, moreover, it is skilfully omitted to mention that the number of educators fell by over 3,000 under the previous government, that an SU reform was carried out and that education was dimensioned. I would like to say that it is wrong that we want to save the children. I would like to reply that there is a lot of potential for improving the efficiency of education and training without compromising quality. We also have the words of the previous government's own Productivity Commission. And our goal is that 1%. We have to go to research, make us one of the countries in the OECD that invests most in research from the public side. SF will ask me in an indignant tone whether we should not add more money to the benefit area, after the SF for 4 years as both government party and support party did not manage to get it done itself. I would like to reply that the unemployment benefit reform was basically right and that the bound mandate of the Daily Allowance Commission, which the SF and the Social Democrats' Chairman helped to establish, was, of course, the condition that changes to the benefit system should remain within an unchanged financial framework. We supported that at the time, and that remains the starting point of the Left. The Enhedslisten will either ask why we are insisting that cash aid recipients should be poor, even if the Social Democrats were willing to support themselves while they cut in cash aid, or we would ask why we want to save on development aid for the world's poorest, while we ourselves were not able to keep the Socialists firmly committed to their commitment to increase aid to 1%. of GNP. I would like to reply that we insist that it should be worthwhile to work, even for someone with a wage at the lower end, and that we will continue to be among only a handful of countries that meet the UN's objective of 0.7% development aid. of GNP. The Radicals are going to ask me, with a strange punctuation, how can we defend our green climate leader position, while even in the government they were unable to find funding for the tax exemption for electric cars? I would like to reply that we still have one of the world's most ambitious targets for reducing CO2 so, on the other hand, I am a little unsure about what the alternative will ask. This is the first real opening debate of the Alternative, and I think there are many of us who are excited about where we have you, and also welcome to. I look forward to the continued debate because we are facing great challenges. This requires that the parties of the Folketing take responsibility. In the Left, we have put forward what we want. In the Left we have shown where we want to give priority, because there is one thing that is certain: you cannot get everything at once. Every choice in life involves an opt-out. We have taken that responsibility on board and I hope that many of the parties here will be involved. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008130957	It is a good thing that the rapporteur is looking forward to the debate, because a number of things have been written on the list of speakers. The first person to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131006	Thank you for that and also thank the rapporteur of the Left for one long confession when it comes to the things where the government can be blamed for its policy. The rapporteur from the Left felt that I would probably focus on the savings that are being made in the area of children and the elderly, and it would also have been quite appropriate to bring it forward, but now the rapporteur from the Left has himself said that this is the case, so I will not concentrate on that. Instead, I would like to ask about the Finance Act presented by the Left. We are very concerned that jobs are being created in Denmark and also throughout Denmark in the private sector, and that is why I have a very, very simple question for the rapporteur of the Left: how many private jobs will the draft budget put forward by the Left provide?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131100	I believe that today the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, by the way, was somewhat misunderstood by the rapporteur who was exceptionally well-dressed. I'd like to come down with it afterwards and read aloud if necessary. The government doesn't cut in the field of children. It is also an important priority for the current government to create jobs, because that is what pulls people out of poverty, namely to get a job. That is why a financial bill has been tabled which will give priority to jobs throughout Denmark. We see that growth is concentrated around the big cities, and we cannot do that. We want to provide a freer framework for moving jobs into the waterfront municipalities as well, to provide a freer framework for municipalities here and to ensure that it is not only worthwhile to work, but also pay off to create jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131150	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131153	Those were some fine words, especially about my suit; I think we buy the same place. But that does not change the fact that I put a very simple question to the rapporteur of the Left, and that was: how many private jobs does the Left expect the draft budget put forward to provide? It must be a simple answer to be able to come here today. I have to say that I have the expectation that it is very, very few, but I would very much like to hear the figure from the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131223	I welcome that concern, because it can be said that it will certainly provide more jobs than if the government does not take the action that the government does. It is therefore important to ensure that jobs remain in Denmark, and the policy that the government has presented in its draft budget will put forward for that purpose. It is very gratifying if the Socialists have the same focus, and I understand from the rapporteur that you do. It will then be a narrow matter tomorrow, when the Minister for Finance calls for negotiations, to tie a loop on the excellent proposal put forward by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131300	Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131302	There is something that I simply do not understand, and that is that you can take so lightly the question of the future of our planet, our nature, our environment, the ability of future generations to actually have a planet to live on. Because whatever political position you have, that very question should be something that you took deeply, deeply seriously. But when I look down on the government's financial bill and the reports the government has made, I can't see at all that you're taking it seriously. On the contrary, when you see what you want in this area, you get speechless. You will cut 150 million. kr. on climate action; Green Conversion Fund, which has helped enterprises with green conversion, you will close down; funds for ecology and nature you will cut by nearly 100 million. kr.; the public transport development pool will be closed down and you will cut the area by 1.5 billion. kr.; support for climate change in developing countries is cut by 0.5 billion. kr. And not only that, you have also announced that you will abandon the objective of reducing our emissions of substances that create climate change. And then you have also told the farmers that they can fertilize something more. I don't understand. How can you think so short-sightedly? We have a leading position in Denmark, and you risk it; you let it be round-shaven. Can't you see that the greatest threat we, as humans, face is climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131441	I would like to point out that you have 1 minute of speaking time to ask and 1 minute to reply and 1⁄2 minute to the next round. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131448	Thank you. If this is the speechless speech of Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, I am excited to hear Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen when she is not. So this is all about having a green realism and a realistic approach to things. In Denmark we are ahead, and we must be, and that is also the ambition of the current government. But you shouldn't be too far ahead to get lost. You shouldn't have arm movements so big that you punch yourself in the face. We know that if we go too far in relation to the countries with which we compete, we risk moving both jobs and the pollution to which Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen refers. But pollution is by its very nature cross-border, and that means that if we set the bar too high, companies move south of the border, and we get things in our heads anyway. So no one is served with that. At the same time, we run the risk of undermining Danish industry and especially Danish agriculture, which we have, in recent years, given conditions of competition that are not reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131554	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131605	Green realism is being said. It is deeply unrealistic to relax green ambitions; it is profoundly unrealistic to say something to our planet, to future generations, about climate change. You talk a lot about maintaining an ambitious line, but you do the opposite. And then the rapporteur refers to business. Several large companies are out to deny you. Kim Skibsted from Grundfos said the other day, and I quote: "The government saves over the green branch on which Denmark sits. We live well on green exports, but we can only maintain and increase this if we can continue to develop new products. This is affecting our competitiveness. That's right. We're losing the lead in the green area with the policy you're pursuing. This is going beyond the possibility of creating new jobs, and that is a pity. But no matter what and, as I said, no matter what it costs in crowns and ears, it is the future of our planet that is at stake. How can you go in the wrong direction when it comes to treating our planet properly when it comes to taking climate change seriously? It is not realistic, it is deeply unrealistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131725	Thank you. I would remind you that when I stand up, it is because time has passed and we are asked to hold our speaking time, otherwise not everyone will be given the floor. Then it is the rapporteur to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131734	Thank you. In other words, in relation to what is realistic and what is not realistic, I think it is important not to completely ignore the fact that Denmark is not an isolated island compared to the rest of the world. We must therefore take account of the fact that there are countries around us. And that is why I say: we have to be We are My concern is that if we move too far ahead of the others, move jobs abroad, and then pollution moves out to where there are lax demands. Is it not quite frankly more important that we get the other countries to pollute less and join the wave we are on and be as green as we are?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131827	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131829	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There was, of course, a system of what the party in question would ask me and what I would answer. But Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen did not make it to the Danish People's Party, so I have to take the floor myself and ask the question. Because the question is, of course, whether Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and the Left Party remember the excellent agreement we made in the election campaign, and it is called "Danish welfare in Europe." After all, in the election campaign, we went out together and said that there is something about this issue of migrant workers and social rights and the way in which Britain is moving within the European Union, which is extremely important to us together. We have a common interest in keeping Britain in the European Union, while at the same time having a common interest in looking at the rules that apply, among other things. For social benefits, you can go across borders, etc. I mentioned this in my own rapporteur's speech, so I would very much like to use this opportunity to make sure that it is now also something that is remembered in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008131925	I'm very sorry I didn't include sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in my series of imaginary questions. We are certainly aware of the agreement we made before the elections between the four bourgeois parties. It is important that there is a balance between what we think is very important, precisely that we can attract qualified labour to Denmark, but also that we attract the labour force for the right reasons. People must come to Denmark to work and not to receive social benefits. There we have to work with the other European countries, and now the rapporteur mentions Britain, to find some models for how this can be done. I would say that there are some of Britain's ideas about their continued membership of the European Union that I do not agree with, but in relation to the very fact that we are talking about the balance between social benefits and migrant workers, we must lean on Britain to ensure a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132021	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132023	Thank you, President. One of the things that the British Prime Minister, David Cameron, is very determined to do in relation to is that there must be a number of years of contributions before you can pull benefits the other way, in other words precisely to be sure that those who choose to walk are walking for work and not for public services. What I find a little interesting is that one thing is to work for it, in relation to Britain now making some demands in the EU system and fighting for them, and that something else is that we have to look at and work on how it can really also benefit Denmark, so that it does not just become a question of some special conditions for Britain. How can we ensure that the good things that they may have fought home will also apply in Denmark? For some of what we jointly wrote in what we were doing in the election campaign, this was about introducing profit principles for these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132113	I very much agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in that this is an important area and I fully support what we wrote together at the time. When I say that we have to lean on Britain, it is because sometimes we have to admit that in Britain there are about ten times as many people as we are in Denmark. You are a slightly larger economy, which is why you may have a little bigger muscles to play with. I therefore believe that this can be used as a door opener for us to have that discussion with the other European countries. That is also why it is stated in the government base that this is something you want to do something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132148	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132152	Thank you and thank you for welcoming the rapporteur. I am also very much looking forward to the dialogue and debate, both today and in the future. In the alternative, we agree with green realism. Green realism is very important, but green realism is, of course, that the European Commission is pointing out that there are 20 million jobs in green conversion just until 2020. Green realism is that over 99%. of the researchers in the area say that we should have acted yesterday, we should act today, and we must act tomorrow, so that we do not have very great consequences from this climate change. So could the rapporteur clarify a little how he sees green realism?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132232	I very much agree with the alternative that it is essential that Denmark does not go alone here. It is essential that we bring the other European countries with us and that there are common EU solutions in this area. As I mentioned earlier to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, climate change and pollution are, and so on. in its nature cross-border in many ways. That is why we need to have common solutions. When I speak of green realism, it is in order to ensure a balance between the interests of those professions, some of which are therefore, and that is something that must be said to excuse the expression, is making more of a mess than others, and it is a profession on which we are still deeply dependent. Then we have to find a balance that ensures that they stay in Denmark and make less of a mess than if they went abroad and made more of a mess. It's green realism in my optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132323	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132324	Then I would say that green realism for us then is helping these companies to do it right, to do it well, also for the climate and the environment. But it does not concern the rapporteur when, for example, he says: E.ON yesterday goes out and says that this zigzag course we're seeing from the Danish side right now makes them question their investments in Denmark that it's slowly starting to look like these very green jobs that we could attract if we grabbed and took the lead could disappear from us?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132355-2	I also took note of this relatively hard statement from E.ON, which came yesterday or the day before yesterday or when it was. There's just got to be this balance, because the question that I was gonna ask E.ON was, "Well, where the hell are you gonna go?" So, which country is as far ahead as Denmark, where you will bet instead? I find that difficult to see. I think it is good that Denmark is taking the lead. I'm actually proud that we're taking the lead. But again, if the arm movements get so big that we beat ourselves in the face, then we are undermining the whole green area and we are undermining Danish business. We will not be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132436	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132439	Let me begin by congratulating Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Of course we are because of the climate challenge that we see as perhaps the greatest task of our generation to solve, but we are also because we can see and hear that it costs jobs, not least in rural areas. It is not just E.ON, as several speakers have said, that is shocked by the new tones. It is Danish Industry that says today on the cover of a daily newspaper: How can you cut into such a successful research area as energy research, when all business surveys show and when a new evaluation shows that it creates jobs? We know that when the hand is shaken here, it is something that costs investment in Denmark. We know this from the last time that the Left came to power, where they also laid down the green area. The only comment we have received, and which we have been able to find, on the reactions of Danish industry, is from Mr. Thomas Danielsen from the Left, as yesterday on the front page of Information, said that the Left thinks the criticism is irresponsible. Is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen agrees that it is irresponsible when Danish Industry and Danish companies say that they are concerned about the decisions taken by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132557	We are, by nature, listening to these concerns and we are also concerned about the Danish jobs. So that's kind of why we're putting up with this green realism. After all, part of green realism relates to the sign that the Minister of Finance has on his desk. It says: Where should the money come from? That's the question I'm gonna have to ask, sir. Martin Lidegaard, because where's the money for this coming from? We can't just pick them on a money tree out in the garden. If you want to reduce the competitiveness of a large number of Danish companies by being too ambitious with this agenda, what do we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132641	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132642	The reason why Denmark here has an international reputation and is the number one world is that we have not just received awards for being the best climate country, but at the same time the World Economic Forum has received the first prize for creating an energy sector that can generate economic growth. This is among other things. the energy sector that creates tens of thousands of jobs in rural areas in Denmark, and it is the energy sector that is now being shaken by the government's casting doubts on the green targets and on the entire underlying policy and framework conditions that have created one of the world's most progressive and growth-driven energy sectors. The question is whether it is irresponsible and whether it is irresponsible when Danish companies and foreign companies say it affects their desire to invest and create jobs in Denmark. Is that ridiculous? Does Jakob Ellemann-Jensen agree with his colleague that it is irresponsible when Danish Industry and companies are concerned about the framework conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132740	I think I answered that very clearly before. I do not think it is irresponsible when the business community complains about Danish politics in general. We must always take this seriously, and we must always listen to it. We take account of the whole of Denmark's economy and not just of the industries involved in the energy sector. That is why I say that there must be a green realism. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. speaks of CO2 instead of 40%. When the energy settlement was made, the then Minister for Climate and Energy, Mr. Martin Lidegaard, that the 35% achieved there was fantastic. Then why is it that a target of 37 percent? All of a sudden is horrible?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132833	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132836	Sir. Martin Lidegaard cannot follow up on the question, so now I have to follow up on the question. The rapporteur says that, of course, business is taken seriously by the business community as a whole and not just parts of the economy and not just the energy sector. However, I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that Danish Industry is not just the energy sector. I also believe that the rapporteur is aware that Danish Industry covers the entire Danish business community. And that is why it is quite serious when they are out criticizing the government's plans for climate and energy because we are losing green jobs. Is the rapporteur aware that when large foreign companies choose to settle down in Denmark, for example? Apple in Viborg, is it precisely because of our energy ambitions? And now, for example... removes the subsidy for heat pumps, which means that you can use the electricity from wind in our district heating plants, it is one of the criticisms that this particular industry is making. Will you do something about it in relation to the Finance Act, or will the rapporteur continue to say from the platform: of course we take them seriously, we just do nothing about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008132946	My prediction of indignation in the vote proved true; I am pleased about that. I just have to say, given that the rapporteur is so concerned about the reports from business and Danish Industry, that there are also a number of reports from there about reducing the tax. Is that something that we should also follow?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133007	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133009	In fact, SF has generally taken business quite seriously, even when we sat in government looking at reliefs of taxes where it made sense and which neither harmed the environment nor, for that matter, the climate in Denmark. It is possible to pursue an offensive climate policy, an offensive energy policy, while at the same time creating jobs, even though the government now chooses to go exactly the opposite way. I just have to ask: when the government says again and again internationally, and you do so with the English voice, you have ambitious goals, but at the same time you put forward, among other things. a financial bill in Danish, where you are cutting your ambitions, should you listen to what you say abroad in English, or should you listen to what you say in Danish in connection with the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133100	You have to listen to everything the government says, and you have to listen to everything the Left says, because these things are not in conflict with each other, and that is why I am talking about green realism. Denmark is ahead, and Denmark must be ahead, but we should not be so far ahead that we get lost. It is not the case that I have been nervous about presenting the policy of the Left on this point. I actually answer it very precisely. We want to be ambitious, and SF wants to be more ambitious, so there we just disagree. We believe that this must also be taken into account for the rest of the business community. There is just a political disagreement, and that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133143	Then I give the floor to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133145	Thank you. If sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen had guessed what the Conservative People's Party would now be asking, I think he had said a reason for not doing so. I will not do that; I will talk to the Minister for Finance about that tomorrow. Instead, I want to touch something that is important to all of us and which matters, I know, also to the Left, namely our common primary school. We have made a reform of primary school which we are delighted to see far along the way. However, we have the minuses that the days have now become so long, and it has been decided by the Danish Parliament that now I should just like to ask: is there an edge on the left side, when enough is enough, so that we can forget the stubbornness a little and discuss how our primary school should hang together and clear up the conciliation that has been going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133247	I'm almost sorry nothing came of reason, but it's gotta be tomorrow. It is true that the school cafes in isolation make school day longer. That is why the Minister for Children, Education and Gender Equality has also sent a letter to all municipalities in which she insists that there is an opportunity to organise school days shorter, for example. by reducing the supporting training. However, I would just like to arrest this because in this debate we regard it as a punishment from time to time that children should go to school. After all, we have a common desire for our children to become more skilled, for example. The subjects Danish and mathematics, and this is what goes on in school. I don't think it's a punishment to go to school. I did when I went to school. But I don't think it's a punishment for my own children that they go to school. I regard this as a huge privilege, and I think we need to remove the one who insists that it is terrible that children should go to school.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133350	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133352	I think it's really good that children should go to school. I also hope that the students I had at the time thought it was quite reasonable to be there, you don't know that. But I guess it's not good if kids sit in school and think, "What am I really doing here?" You don't need the help that is being provided, you just have to sit there because the Folketing has thought that the day should be so and so long. I think we should respect the nurse, the factory worker who is going to work tonight, that you can see your own children. Somewhere else it must be fair to say at some point, if the children get sick and feel bad about long school days, that we may have to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133431	Children don't want to get sick from going to school. We can all agree on that. The school is a place where we send our kids to get good and smart and support us when we retire. I just think that there are opportunities for the municipalities to plan these hours somewhat better. There are very large differences in how the schedules look. I don't think we should dictate this from in here, but we can just see examples of municipalities where there are both two and three middle hours during the day. There I think you can make a little more effort to make school day more coherent.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133511	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133513	The question of jobs has been circling the debate so far, but I would like to return to Mr Seligman's question. Nicolai Wammen's excellent question to the rapporteur, namely the question of how many jobs there really are in the Left's draft Finance Bill, the government's draft Finance Bill. I take it that this is something that is so well known as a political rapporteur for the Left. So it would be nice to get an answer to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133547	Well, I can't help thinking about what I was thinking about before, as Mr. Nicolai Wammen asked the same question: how many jobs are there in the Socialist Finance Bill? But then I remember: No, it is true, after all, there has been no proposal for a financial bill. So we can't really be smart about that. So let me answer possibly imprecisely, but nevertheless quite correctly: there are more than there are in the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133618	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133621	If the political rapporteur had listened to the previous debate, he would have noticed that the Socialist President answered very clearly when we are presenting our draft budget and that this will probably also follow. But what I know at least is that there are certainly some of the elements from the Left that can get far more jobs out of, for example, the housing job scheme, which, after all, does not really provide anything. But seriously, somebody must have made a calculation. Or is it like that, as sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen says: no one has calculated how many jobs there are in the draft budget? That can't be right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133709	First of all, I am quite sure that the Minister for Finance tomorrow, when the rapporteurs are called for a meeting, it is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht can also give a more comprehensive answer to that question. Then I'd like to arrest this one with the housing job scheme, because the housing job scheme is about giving ordinary Danes room and space in everyday life. It is about combating undeclared work, and yes, it is also about creating jobs. So does it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133741	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133748	Thank you. I don't know if it was because sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is the microphone on? Okay. Nicolai Wammen's dress that he did not get the answer, so I think there should be one more opportunity to give an answer to how many jobs there are actually in the Finance Act. In concrete terms, the government will spend 600 million. kr. to reopen a tax gap in relation to the property tax rate. How many jobs does this lead to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133822	I'm sorry, I had a very difficult time hearing Mr. Jesper Petersen, and it's not of evil will. I think there is a bit of noise in the Chamber • It is important for this government to create a better framework for creating jobs. Now that you're following this agenda by making me mention a number, I guess it's clear to even the dullest viewer out behind the screen that I'm not going to mention that number. In other words, it must gradually be becoming clear even to the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133855	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133857	What I was asking was the 600 million. kr., which it costs to reopen the tax gap in relation to the property tax rate, and how many jobs that element provides. I don't know if it was because sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen could not hear it, but at least there was no answer. So let's try the housing job scheme, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen himself mentioned earlier. How many jobs will the considerable million dollars spent on the next year be spent on the next year? I hope, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen could hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008133935	I'm sorry about my poor hearing. As regards the first, which the rapporteur mentions, and I regret that I did not catch it before the debate, and that was possibly because the term tax hole was used, I would say: it is not a tax hole. These are better conditions for Danish companies, and we think that is a good idea. With regard to the housing job scheme, figures from the Ministry of Taxation show that it is net of around 600-700 jobs. In addition, this gives Danish families, ordinary Danish families, a help in everyday life. There are hundreds of thousands of people who use this housing job scheme that makes everyday life more coherent. And then it fights black work. I guess we can't totally disagree if that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134020	Then it's mr. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134022	Thank you. After all, it is not an entirely unreasonable question to ask how many private jobs there are in the financial bill. The government of the Left Government has among other things: a headline called something with growth and more jobs, and then you come up with a financial act where you are unable to explain to the Danes how many private jobs there are in it. So you can have three options to answer: is it 500, is it 1.000, or is it 1 500 private jobs in the financial bill that has been put forward? I think it is fair to have an answer to that, and there is, of course, a lifeline right in front of the rapporteur, in case it is at last. But the question is very simple: is it 500, is it 1.000, or is it 1 500 private jobs in the financial bill that has been put forward? We must be able to answer that question when it is one of the top headlines in the government base and, I understand, one of the aims of the financial law which has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134129	One of the things that sometimes annoys me when I see parliamentary debates and stuff like that is when you keep wandering around in an area where you look for answers that seem not to be coming and then, by the way, have no hint of answers to anything. So, how can we attack this with tax cuts by asking how many jobs it will provide? How many tax cuts will the Socialists give?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134159	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134201	Quite frankly, there are a lot of people who are following this debate, who think it is a little strange that a government which thought that we should create, I do not know how many thousands of jobs, and who should get Denmark on the right track and make sure that the wheels got back on track, as one might understand was 3 years of almost nothing, is not able to say how many private jobs there are in the financial bill that has been put forward. Well, it's a very simple question. The calculations are available. Now I see that even the Minister for Finance has come to the Chamber. The Minister for Finance must be able to answer that question. I think that if the rapporteur whispers, perhaps the Minister for Finance can answer that. Otherwise, we also have the Minister for Employment present in the Chamber, so the entire government involved in this area is in the Chamber. So the rapporteur must be able to respond to those people who would like to have a job that would like to see the progress that has been promised on how many private jobs there are in the financial bill put forward by the government. It is a very simple question and not an insult, but just a help for us to be able to get some clarity as to what the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134303	I'm very fond of Mr. Knox. Morten Bødskov's concern for the TV viewers. I do not think that the television viewers will find it amazing to have the same question repeated over the next 30 minutes while I stand up here paddles. One can of course turn it around and say: well, when the Socialist Group in the European Parliament puts forward the draft budget that I understand from Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht to be presented tomorrow, how many jobs are there in it? How many private jobs are there in the Social Democrats' Finance Bill? It must be at least as straightforward to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134341	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134344	Thank you. I would like to return to this discussion on climate action. Several members of parliament asked about the huge, massive deterioration in efforts for the green transition, also in relation to the Danish economy, and what that will mean, and Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen says many times that it is about conditions of competition and it is about framework conditions, I think we are also being told. I simply find it so difficult to understand, because if you roll down on some of the things that are being removed quickly, it is for example. a pool for Green Fire Souls, the Fund for Entrepreneurship, Green Conversion Pool, which helps companies adapt to more climate-friendly energy consumption, these are the green entrepreneurs, and in general there are cuts in green business policy for 50 million. kr. How can I hope it is not a swearing word? On the one hand, can one say that you want to do this to help business while on the other hand you cut the effort that needs to help business? One ignores criticism from Danish Industry, Grundfos etc. It must make an impression on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134510	At the risk of repeating myself in this area, I would say that this is about balance. In a way, I agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that we should have green fire souls, for example. was behind ten street warriors in Mejlgade, Aarhus. It may well be that we think that there might be a better way to spend that money, for example. to also strengthen the competitiveness of industries other than the one which Enhedslisten has so much to do with supporting. We therefore believe that there should be a balance. We do not think it is unambitious that many resources are being spent in this area, and we even think it is a very good idea. We are in favour
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134605	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134607	Well, the export of environmental, energy and climate technology is one of the largest exports we have in Denmark. This is extremely important for our competitiveness in relation to other countries; that is precisely what we are competing for. Well, maybe those ten street crazies in Mejlgade aren't as handsome as mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen thought they should have been, but that is not where you will find almost 2 billion. kr. overall on the green effort. So what are the billions going to instead? Are these the tax cuts for a few of the richest families? Is that what's important?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134652	It's going to be okay, among other things. to secure our health care. In the Finance Act, the government has prioritised 2.4 billion. kr. extra for health care next year. We have the luxury of getting older, which unfortunately means that we have some more diseases and that we need to be treated more often. We take this into account here, while at the same time we are still in the forefront of climate change. That is the balance you have to have because the box is empty. We can't just go dig up some money somewhere. Things have to be linked, the economy has to be linked, and that is where I think a good balance has been struck. If Enhedslisten wants to change that balance, then come happy with improvement proposals for the finance minister tomorrow when you meet over there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134737	Then it's Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134739	The rapporteur stated just now that he is padding on the question of how many jobs the financial bill provides. I would like to be helpful because the rapporteur could not answer whether it was 500, 1,000 or 1,500, but the Minister for Finance has indicated that there are 500 jobs. After all, a helping hand may be needed for all of us if we get out where we can't get down, and now the rapporteur has got one from the Socialists. But I would like to move on to the next question. We are making the level a little easier, and the rapporteur can simply say yes or no. The Ministry of Finance estimates that the draft Finance Act has a dampening effect on the Danish economy in 2016. In other words, it is drawing Danish economy in the wrong direction. Does the rapporteur think that it is ambitious yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134835	I am very pleased with the care shown by Mrs Trine Bramsen in making the issue easier. I did not expect anything else from Mrs Trine Brammsen either. I have to say that the Finance Act put forward by the government is therefore intended partly to ensure responsibility in the Danish economy and partly to give priority to those areas of core welfare which we in the Left believe to be the most important. And then it aims to improve conditions for business, so that we ensure the future of our welfare society. In other words, these are relatively tangible areas, I think. And no, the ambition is not to weaken the Danish economy, or whatever it was that Mrs Trine Bramsen got herself into.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134921	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134923	In fact, I do not think the rapporteur understood the seriousness of my question. In 2016, the impact of the Left's Finance Bill will be negative on the Danish economy. The exact figure for the financial effect is minus 0.2%. I think the rapporteur knows what that is. Is that ambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008134949	I mean, when I'm laughing a little bit in the beard, it's not just because of that funny reference. So it is also because it is almost absurdly hypocritical to hear a Socialist accuse the government of irresponsibility. So, excuse me: a box has been left with less money than was said before the elections, and the government is taking the consequences of this. This means prioritising; it also means giving tough priority; and it means recognizing that something is more important than anything else. There are many good reasons why the amount of availability is less than was thought there are lower oil prices and there is much else wrong. But we have to recognise that there is a different situation than the one we had thought, the hope and the desire there was, and then I think it sounds a little hollow that the Socialists will not recognise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135046	Then I give the floor to Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135049	Thank you. Now, in his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said and thanked for the fact that it is important for the government with a better health care system. At the same time, in its proposal to the Finance Act, the government has cut down on a number of health care services which have to do with prevention, the psychosocial elements of health and also research. From this point of view, I would very much like to ask the rapporteur: what are the technical parameters used by the government for its efforts in the field of health? Because I kind of agree that we need better health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135134	What I tried to describe before was that when it is necessary for the government to add more funds to health, it is because it is based on the luxury that we are getting older. So most of us are getting older, and this leads to some illnesses, and this brings with it greater pressure on health care, especially for the elderly citizens of Denmark. That is, of course, the basis for thinking that more funds should be provided for health care. The final distribution of this, I think, must be taken with the Minister for Health; I must honestly admit that is not my core competence.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135209	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135212	Thank you. At the same time, however, the government is planning to cut in, among other things. support for vulnerable families, support for children who are relatives of seriously ill parents, suicide prevention, rehabilitation services for Parkinson's patients, grants for parents with terminally ill children, and I could go on, i.e. a number of parameters that are extremely important for ensuring a very good prevention so that we do not get to where we are going to spend a great deal of money on treating or cleaning up after the lack of prevention. So my question is: how will the government ensure prevention in the health care sector of the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135254	I fully agree that prevention is important, primarily for the sake of us as patients, when we end up in that situation, but also in relation to the economy. I am just not sure that at Christiansborg we are the best at dictating the regions how to spend their budgets. After all, some earmarked funds have been worked on in various areas of the hospital system, and I do not believe that the rapporteur or I are the best at assessing the rapporteur, but not me; I therefore believe that you are in the regions where it is one's primary task to deal with this area. Then there are a number of the measures that the rapporteur mentions, which are therefore included in the rate pool, and which the Minister for Health has already said is something that she is willing to discuss in connection with the negotiations on the rate pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135343	That brings us to the last point in the line of brief remarks, and that is Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135349	Thank you. I would like to start with a quote, and it starts like this: I believe in many ways that the situation in the country's day institutions is reckless. In far too many situations dangerous situations arise in the country's kindergarten because teachers are alone with too many children. It's simply unheard of. ▪ That is what the then rapporteur for the children of the Left said shortly before the elections, and at the same time promised more money for the area, a so-called minimum coverage. Now we were very much in agreement with what the rapporteur of the Left said at the time, in other words before the elections. Now we are standing here after the elections, where we still have the situation that there are too few adults to care for our children in kindergartens and nurseries. So I would really like to hear the rapporteur of the Left, how what was said during the election campaign is in harmony with the financial bill that is now being put forward, which provides both for savings in the municipalities through the re-priority contribution, but also for the removal of the money that was actually allocated to children in the previous budget proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135452	I think the latter has to be based on some misunderstanding with Mr. Knox. Jonas Dahl, for the 750 million. kr. The annual budget of the 2012 Finance Act and the 2015 Finance Act will therefore be continued in this Finance Act. It is true, then, that one week before the elections, the previous government made some unfunded electoral promises which one cannot expect the present government to live up to, as long as they were unfunded. Then I cannot help drawing a little smile at the fact that it comes from the SF, which was therefore in government and was a support party for a government which, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, ensured that 3 000 educators disappeared from nursery schools. It's funny how you suddenly care about it when you no longer have the heavy yoke of responsibility on your shoulders.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135550	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135552	Now, in this way, I am dealing with a proposal that came and a statement that came from the then rapporteur of the Left and a member of the Folketing. So it is to be expected that the Liberals who speak out in the press will speak out on behalf of the government, but they may not do so anymore. Maybe it's just a little lie, you sneak out here and here. In fact, I find it a little strange that we cannot get an answer to the fact that during the election campaign, it was said that what is going on is reckless and that we are now getting a long explanation. The current Prime Minister also said in the election campaign that core welfare would not be spared. Does the rapporteur think that this is the case with the re-priority contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135632	Let me first arrest that one with a rapporteur on the Left who says something during the election campaign. So he is not speaking on behalf of the government at the time that it was the Social Democrats and the Radicals who made up the government at the time. The government does not remove any money from the children's area. There is a change of priority contribution. The purpose of the re-priority contribution is to ensure that we can afford core welfare. That is the whole point of the re-priority contribution. This is something that state institutions have been subject to for decades without giving rise to the same hysterical state that now prevails in the context of the decided re-prioritisation contribution. The purpose of this is to ensure the core welfare, period.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135724	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008135742	Thank you. It seems to me that the government is running an internal competition among its ministers and now after the speech by Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, perhaps also among the rapporteurs, about who can make the most antisocial and short-term statements. I don't know if there might be anything on the edge of the competition, but after the Prime Minister's speech on Tuesday, I think he's leading. One of the areas where the Prime Minister really pulled the black driver's shirt on Tuesday was the ambition or the frightening lack of it in relation to the climate crisis. It is probably mankind's greatest challenge ever that we face. In the near future, a very, very crucial climate summit will be held, and the world's leaders will not mention the climate in their opening speech with a single word. Denmark's Finance Minister, on the other hand, has a special look for the green. In fact, he has announced cuts in green investment at a rate which I think has rarely happened before. This will threaten Denmark's leading position as a green forerunner, and it will threaten the many jobs that the green transition each year creates, and it will threaten the future of our children and grandchildren. By being a green pioneer country, Denmark has got some of the best companies in the world. It is the leading position that is being put at risk, and I think it should call for thought even with the Prime Minister that large companies such as Grundfos and E.ON and now also today Danish Industry are lingering for the government's black strategy. Those companies are not asking for tax cuts, they are asking for green ambitions and vision of the future. We can hear that the Left continues to call it green realism. That is also what we call it when we scrap the target of achieving a 40% reduction. of CO2 But what you are doing has nothing to do with realism. It is such a kind of advanced ostrich strategy wrapped in some nice advertising agency turns. Frankly, it is childish and irresponsible to wait for some other countries, the European Union or some invisible hand to come and fix things for us. If we do not act quickly, we risk that large parts of the earth will become absolutely uninhabitable. We run the risk of natural disasters becoming almost everyday, and we run the risk of intensifying the crises that force people to flee. Climate change is a threat to the world's poorest countries, and it is also a threat to our own society. What does Left do about that threat? They cut down on public transport, on light rails, on bicycle paths, on alternative forms of energy, and even on support for small ecological entrepreneurs and green innovative companies. Left sticks his head in the sand and spends the money on tax discounts instead. That is clearly the balance that we would like to achieve. Dear Left, I just want to say one thing to you: the money that you spend from the green transition is some that you steal from future generations. In the government's financial law game for 2016, we can also see this competition playing out. The Minister for Education, too, can be said, is quite advanced in the field of the fight for the black driver's shirt, because very, very severe cuts have been made in our education area, and this is going to weaken the conditions, and this will hit the quality of our educational institutions. Not least in the areas outside the major cities, we must fear that educational institutions will eventually close down. And, of course, there are 1.4 billion. kr. In terms of savings on research, which will so much slow down our development. In the field of health, we see that the government repeatedly paints a rosy picture of what kind of financial law it is. But the truth is another, because, as the Alternative's rapporteur also pointed out just now, a large part of the money comes from other parts of the health sector: feeding times, drug consumption rooms, prevention of suicide, and a proper lump of money being channelled directly into private hospitals. So this has nothing to do with the regions, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen was just saying. Then housing benefits are cut to the poorest pensioners, and the ordinary resident of the nursing home and the ordinary home help recipient can forget about having a little more time and a little more care. They will still experience that you can't get help getting out and going for a walk, that you have to sleep with a diaper, or that dinner is made up of vacuum-packed meatballs. All of this is going to happen because the Left would much rather give tax rebates to the largest companies and a few rich families in Denmark. It is short-sighted and antisocial to such an extent. This is also a wrong political priority, because of course we can afford to treat our older fellow citizens properly and to have good welfare. At the same time, we can also afford to ensure a decent safety net for the many people who need the community at a time when they have lost their jobs. More than 60,000 people have fallen out of the benefit system. Many have already lost their livelihood completely, and many more will be without income in the future if we do nothing. We know in advance that the benefit commission is not going to solve the problem because the benefit commission is not allowed to spend any more money. As a result, there are some groups of unemployed people who are going to pay for improvements for some others, and there is only one sensible solution, and that is to bring back the billions that the Prime Minister and Kristian Thulesen Dahl stole from the benefit system. There is a general, rather depressing trend among virtually all parties in here to think that people can either suddenly find a job or suddenly get well if you just print them sufficiently on the wallet. It is a clever idea on which numerous reforms have been built. Yet, funny enough, there are still unemployed people, still away people who are suffering from disease, and the people who have a disability have certainly not been cured of muscle loss or paralysis because they have less money in their daily lives. What is going to happen now is that the government will introduce a cash aid ceiling, a new 225-hour rule, as it is called, and then they will harmonise youth benefits on the basis of the same neat idea that there will suddenly be more people working on it. 1 400 young people will be sent out at a rate which has already led to an explosion in youth homelessness. The ceiling on cash benefits will in all likelihood lead to exactly the same as the last time when the Left experimented with it, namely that thousands of children will grow up in poverty. The other day, it sounded like the Prime Minister could think about the kids. Freely translated, the Prime Minister said that history will judge us and hold us responsible for what we owe our children and their children when he spoke to the UN. I agree very much with that. There is such a need right now for us to take global responsibility. Development aid is needed, emergency aid is needed, there is a need to ensure secure relations with the millions of people who have fled from war and persecution. But there is also a need for long-term development aid, for stability, for the building of schools, hospitals and civil society, and for support for the green transition that we talked about earlier. It is therefore really frightening that the Prime Minister could be behind a reduction of 2.8 billion. kr., I think it is, already this year in development aid. And it will only be more frightening if that proposal came less than 24 hours after the Prime Minister himself signed the 17 new development goals at the UN General Assembly. I think you could call it some kind of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. We are facing an historic refugee crisis. Denmark should take its share of responsibility in that situation both through development aid and when it comes to accepting the thousands of people who come to Europe with a need for protection. Fortunately, the Danish people with donations and shelters and food and clothes and drives have shown a different face than that shown by the Danish politicians who compete to be hardest on people on the run, and thank you very much for that. Both when it comes to helping people escape, and also when it comes to creating a more equal society, a more sustainable society, fortunately there are a lot of Danes who think and act more socially, more sustainable and more long-term than the government. Fortunately, more people would rather go for the green or red driver's shirt than the black one, and thank you for that. That's what's most needed right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008140803	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008140806	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for her contribution. What I want to ask is, in relation to the plan that has now been put forward, about the relocation of state jobs, because when I have tried to see what Enhedslisten says about it, I think there have been some different reports. In some places you say something generally positive about it, and elsewhere you are very reluctant. After all, there is now a concrete plan for just under 4 000 jobs to be moved out of the capital and around Denmark. If Enhedslisten is involved, are you on this plan, or what in this plan do you not want to contribute to?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008140845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008140846	I cannot answer in detail which parts of the plan are fantastic and which parts of the plan are not so fantastic, but we are starting from the point of view that we think that state jobs can be relocated when it makes sense, especially if there is a particularly good reason for doing so. And it can be in many places that there can be very good reason for it and where it makes good sense. But we would rather create new jobs. We will have to look into each other's eyes when such a plan comes up and ask whether we could do something a little better for rural areas, for example, for the money that we are talking about. the creation of new jobs in rural areas. So we'd like to share in discussing it and discussing it, but we're not just buying a plan that's put such a hundred percent on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008140927	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008140928	It is just because Enhedslisten demands very clear answers from the rest of us when we are on the platform, so I actually think it is fair enough that we should also make ourselves available. Now we've known this plan for a while, and I've also been able to see in the comments that have been, that yes, you're probably a little too, but only where it's professionally justifiable and something like that. So the question is: are there some of the jobs that have been proposed now in this area where it is not
ParlaMint-DK_20151008140956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008140957	It is clear that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl must of course ask everything and demand an answer. I have to admit, frankly, that I cannot specifically point out which elements are good and which are bad, but I would say that we will insist on a balanced approach to this. Some jobs may make sense to move out, and we would really like to be involved in discussing it. There may also be other places where it is less wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141021	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141023	Thank you. I can hear from Mrs Pernille Skipper that there are many places where more money needs to be spent and that there are not so many places where money is collected. I understood that the Enhedslisten has recently recognised that their own economic policy with their own party box has failed. Mikkel Warming, a member of the Central Board of Enhedslisten, said that you cannot conduct expansive financial policy with Enhedslisten's moneybox. Can you do that with Denmark's cash box?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141102	Yes, you can pursue expansive fiscal policies; of course you can. But I don't think so, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen will compare the two boxes and hopefully not in size either, because we do not get so much party support that it can do so either. Of course, we can pursue expansive fiscal policies and, of course, we will also be involved in financing the proposals we have, that is clear. For example, we think it is a really, really bad idea to give tax rebates to some of the richest families, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and the Left would like to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141130	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141132	It has been received: you care more about Enhedslisten's money than about the kingdom's money. So where are you gonna find the rest of this funding? Because I understand that not only will we not cut development aid but we will also increase it. You will also spend more money in the hospital area. It may be that we can agree on something there and then there were a number of other costly proposals. In addition to being opposed to Danish companies being able to make a sensible generational change and thereby stay in Denmark, where will you find this money?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141206-2	We have a lot of places where we think you can find some money. We mean, for example. We should like to tax capital income in the same way as labour income, which we think would be quite fair. We are also still in favour of a tax on financial transactions, and we think that we should roll back some of the tax cuts that have been granted and that have mainly come to the benefit of our Danish society. The roll-back of the corporate tax reductions that have been granted is also a revenue option. So we really have enough to finance our proposal. Of course, things have to be linked and, of course, we have to finance the things we want to do, and this is basically about political priorities. And there's what's bothering Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen a little bit, the fact that he does not agree with what Enhedslisten believes, namely that we best spend our money, community money, to strengthen the community and on a strong welfare state, and that it is okay that we redistribute from the widest shoulders to some of the slightly narrow shoulders. That is what is happening in a welfare state, and that is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141313	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141315	The Enhedslisten party programme states that Denmark must resign from the EU and that we cannot in any way be part of pan-European solutions if they cross the border at Kruså. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if she can explain to me how this is related to the party's proposal that the critical situation with regard to refugees should be resolved precisely in the form of pan-European solutions and that Denmark should be part of a common quota system for refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141352-2	The Enhedslisten has been advocating for years that we should have a common European solution. It has been going on for quite some time now that the asylum systems of the countries of southern Europe were collapsing under the European Union's Dublin regulation system, and we have long been crying out for a fairer distribution, and that is something that can be agreed intergovernmentally without the need to surrender sovereignty to an EU system. So that is what we think we should do, and we should, in fact, take the lead in that too. There is no contradiction between taking the lead and calling for common solutions... sit down at the negotiating table and say: We are willing, come on, friends, if you are also • and then preserve sovereignty in the Danish Parliament and the Danish democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141446	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141447	Well, I do not disagree with the Enhedslisten when it comes to the fact that we have to carry out the task of refugees pan-European and that this requires that we have binding cooperation and a fixed quota allocation. I just find it difficult to see other options than the current EU to solve the task. And now the rapporteur says that it does not work and that we should just sit at the table, but the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten believes that the refugees who are currently sitting in the crowded camps, among others. on Lesbos in Greece, should wait to be helped until we have invented a new EU cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141524	No, I don't think so, and I don't think anyone from the Enhedslisten has ever said that. On the contrary, it is easy to use the European Union's table if you want to make intergovernmental agreements that are completely voluntary, and we think you should. And we think that Denmark should take the lead in calling for responsibility on the part of the other countries of Europe to ensure that a common solution to this is found. Having said that, it is not everything in the EU's asylum policy that is worth shouting for. In other words, it is the European Union's Dublin regulation that has created the chaotic conditions we are currently seeing in southern Europe, and there is Frontex cooperation, which is border guarding, which will not solve the gigantic problems we are dealing with. But, of course, intergovernmental voluntary agreements can easily be made, and that must be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141620	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141622	Thank you. I'm so fond of Enhedslisten. It almost borders on a loving relationship. It is socialism in its pure form. You know what you get. It's so amazing. I like it, and I've always done it. But I also feel called to ask a few questions about the society we are about to have. I listened to the rapporteur's speech that there is virtually no limit to how bad everything is. All welfare is terrible, everything is down, and it needs to be spent, I don't know how many millions and billions more. Is there in the Enhedslisten's thoughts a limit on how many more thousands are to be employed in the public sector? Is there a limit to how many billion extra can be spent in the public economy? And where will the money come from? Then I heard that there are some proposals for even more taxes for business. Does Enhedslisten have any idea that if the business we have today is taxed more and more, also here under Enhedslisten's regime?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141728	I'm almost sorry to tell Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen, but Enhedslisten does not accept mandates from other parties. It was just now that there was a proposal going on there, but unfortunately I have to say no. I would like to start by saying that we can caricate the concerns we have for our welfare society. This is something to be warmly welcomed. But frankly, I think it is a little disrespectful to the older citizens who have worked their whole life and paid their taxes to the welfare society and who now need care, but are told that they must eat vacuum-packed food and cannot be allowed to come out and go for a walk if they need help with it and who, moreover, must sleep in diapers at night because they cannot be helped up to the toilet. I do not think that is very funny, and I think it is really, really bad, and I do not think we can be familiar with not doing anything about it, but just looking at how the efforts of the municipalities are getting worse and worse while there are more and more elderly people. It's just to take a small part of our welfare community. Is there a limit to the size of the public sector? After all, we are not in a situation where the public sector is growing compared to the private sector at all. I'm not allowed to say anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141841	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141842	Thank you. Well, I couldn't dream of not taking it seriously or caring about it. It is just a little incomprehensible that we have apparently screwed up the world's largest public sector so badly that what we are doing is so poor. Does Mrs Pernille Skipper accept that with the money we have, we could do things differently? Or is it only a lot more money that solves the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008141912-2	1) There are areas in the public sector where we are using the money dumbly today. Those targets that the police run and chase every year are crazy. Many of the demands that are made for the documentation of the efforts of our care staff and everything else are crazy bureaucracy. I just think we should get rid of that. It's funny that we keep talking about it, but it never happens. 2) Can it finance that we have lost thousands of warm hands and public servants while there are more elderly people? No, it can't. There is a need for more money for the public sector. It's been cut to the leg for years, so at least make up. And then we can talk about whether we should not also give a little extra to do it properly and dignifiedly, both for our children, education and older fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142003	Then I give the floor to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142006	Thank you. Sometimes Enhedslisten says some things that may seem a little strange in the ears of others, and I would say that was also what I noted on 14 September 2015 when I read on DR News that the rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper, advocated that trafficking in human beings should be legal as long as there is no money involved. And, of course, it is wondering how Mrs Pernille Skipper intends to enforce it. How does Mrs Pernille Skipper intend to find out whether there has been money involved in a trafficking case? For example, does Mrs Pernille Skipper imagine that there has been money involved with Adnan Avdic, known salafist and known to say something about the Constitution going somewhere? He probably did not take money to smuggle some of her friends over to Sweden, but according to Mrs Pernille Skipper, what Adnan Avdic had done was to be fully legal. So I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper: how does Mrs Pernille Skipper actually think she should be able to prove whether there has been money between a smuggler and a smuggler?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142123	Well, I don't imagine that I have to prove that in the individual cases either. That is why we have the police and the prosecutor's office to investigate crime and find out the evidence, and in the end it is up to the courts to decide whether there is sufficient evidence. There are plenty of provisions in our legislation that have as a criterion that have been violated, that this has happened for their own gain. And I also imagine that when you help refugees, it must be possible to distinguish between whether it has happened for your own gain or whether it is because of the goodness of your heart you have helped some people in a deep, deeply unhappy situation and who just want a ride or need some water or some food.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142211	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142212	I understand from the rapporteur that she believes that Adnan Avdic, a well-known salafist, has helped some of his friends to Sweden with the goodness of his heart and that he should not be punished for this. Pernille Skipper will have to judge that for himself. But I would like to hear Pernille Skipper if she is of the opinion that Enhedslisten and Enhedslisten members must comply with the law. For I understand that on September 8, 2015, one of the Enhedslisten's members, Annika Holm Nielsen, smuggled a person to Sweden, and she perceived that as such an honorary thing to do. And then I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur believe that one is obliged to comply with the law of this country, even if one is opposed to that legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142306	I am not saying that one or the other should not be punished. I am saying that this is something that the police and the courts should decide. And I have a position on how the legislation should be designed. When it comes to members of the Enhedslisten, who have done like thousands of other Danes, known as unknown, in recent times, thus helped some people in a much-pressed situation, either with a drive or some food or some water or shelter for that matter over the night, so that they should not lie outside with children and parents, and who have partly experienced something violent where they come from, partly through a very, very violent journey, then I would say: No, I have no other praise for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142346	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142349	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Skipper talks about taking more responsibility in relation to refugees and illegal immigrants. Does Mrs Pernille Skipper recognise that the fact that a majority of our mayors have said over a long period of time that the system is now so pressured because of the very, very high number of refugees seeking to target Denmark, often motivated by the towering social benefits of the previous government, is a problem? And in that case, does Mrs Pernille Skipper recognise that we need to listen to our mayors and significantly reduce the number of refugees seeking to target Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142429	I believe that there can be many reasons why refugees who reach Europe choose Denmark from now. That is not something I, as a Dane, am particularly proud of, so it has been said. I do not think we should do anything to scare refugees away from Denmark. I believe that we must take part in our responsibilities and then I think that we should take the lead in ensuring that we have a proper and responsible distribution in Europe based on the economic capacity and size of the countries. This will probably not mean that Denmark will have to take much more of the responsibility, but we will have to take our share of the responsibility. Do I recognize that this is a burden on our municipalities? Oh, yeah, it sure does. That is also why we are proposing and proposing that the municipalities should be compensated for the extra costs they all have for the integration efforts that must be made when refugees arrive, because of course we can afford both to take care of people on the run and at the same time to ensure that our welfare for the elderly, children and primary schools does not suffer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142535	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142538	The Government's new integration benefit is not intended to scare anyone, on the contrary, it aims to get more people into work and make Denmark less attractive. Does Mrs Pernille Skipper recognise that the Danish Employers' Association has just said that the government's new integration benefit will get more in work? And does Mrs Pernille Skipper recognise that even now, after just three months of government power, we can see the early signs that the integration grant has helped to bring fewer asylum seekers to Denmark than under the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142613	Now I have a little doubt, because the rapporteur says first of all that the aim is to get people to work, but I do think that I have often heard that the effort was a so-called immediate brake that should ensure that no one else came here. Apparently that's the point, isn't it? If you ask me if I recognise that people can be made poor with an integration benefit, the answer is yes. Do I believe that people suddenly become better able to speak Danish and get a job, or that jobs are growing on the trees by making people poor? No, I don't. If anyone is not to blame for the lack of jobs or the fact that their parents may be unemployed, it is the children, and you are hitting them with this integration benefit. I think they've suffered enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142704	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142706	Thank you. I have always regarded the communists and ultrasocialists in the Enhedslisten as such a very special type of people, for whom shitty mammon does not matter at all, people who live in collective and share the little things they have with each other for the good of the community and who pay their taxes and not least their party taxes with the greatest pleasure. That is why I was just so happy when I could follow Enhedslisten's annual meeting and see that a local department in Greve-Solrød thought that the party tax was too high. It was suggested that it should be reduced from 33 per cent. 5%. That was quite a tax relief, though. And Mrs Stine Brix, who is, of course, in the leadership of the party, said that you could see that this was a problem and that, of course, financial incentives meant something to people's desire to work. So I should like to know whether these economic incentives only affect people in the Enhedslisten, who are municipal politicians, or whether they may also affect other people who, for example, are not interested. It would make you want to work if they could make more of it financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142812	I am quite convinced that Mrs Stine Brix has just been grossly misquoted, but let it be. Well, party taxes we pay in the Enhedslisten, yes. We think it is fair that you cannot as a politician sit and cottage your own skin. I have said repeatedly, and I am happy to do it again, that among other things. Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen gets too much in pay and too good pension conditions. And we are doing what we can to ensure that the conditions under which politicians work remind us a little more of the reality outside, because then it might be that you became a little more inclined to relate to it. I recognise that there are council members from both the Enhedslisten and from other parties who actually have a very high workload. And it can be hard to make a full - time job happen. I do not believe, and this is not the policy of Enhedslisten, that higher pay is necessarily the solution to it, but perhaps more secretarial assistance and help to make things stick together. And as far as I remember, the proposal was not voted through at our annual meeting either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142917	I would just like to ask the gentlemen on the left of the House to be a little more calm, because there is a little noise here next to the rapporteur. And then I will give the floor again to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008142930	I agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that there are some members of parliament who are paid too much, but for my part I think the opposite is true. With regard to the economic incentives, what was wanted by Count Solrød was no longer in pay. It was less tax because it was believed that economic incentives meant something. And I have not heard the rapporteur reply to whether the Enhedslisten recognises that it means something to people's desire to get up and go to work, whether it is in a municipal council or, if I may say so, it is a real job to get something out of it economically too. Does the Enhedslisten accept that premise?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143010	I don't think there are very many people who would go to work if they got 0 kroner. for that, just from the goodness of their heart. There are plenty of people who do lots of volunteering, who have nothing to do with economics and who get up early this weekend and everything else. So sometimes financial incentive has something to do with it, and sometimes it doesn't. I'm a little bit insecure about where Mr. Knox is. Jan E. Jørgensen wants to get to it, but I can promise you that I don't believe that lowering cash benefits will create jobs, for example. And I don't think there's gonna be anything else out of it than making more people live in poverty and make more children grow up in poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143050	Let me remind you of our indictments here in the Folketing. And then I give the floor to Mr. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143056	Thank you, President. I would like to return to what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr asked about a little earlier, because it became a little unclear to me what it really is that Enhedslisten thinks. We are not in favour of the European Union and we are also in favour of withdrawing from the European Union, but we believe that the issue of refugees must be resolved within the European Union. It doesn't really make sense. Well, you can't both blow and have flour in your mouth, and that's kind of what I think Enhedslisten is trying to do. This is also being done against the vote we are about to have on 3 December. So I would really like to have a clear answer from the Enhedslisten: do you think that the challenges to the refugee issue, which are extremely big, are going to be solved within the framework of the European Union? Do we not have a common obligation to carry out that task in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143140	Of course, we have a common European responsibility, and Enhedslisten has been calling not only recently, but for years for a common European solution. We have shouted and shouted after we had a Prime Minister who took the lead more in those negotiations. Of course, there is a difference between what we think should happen in principle and what can be done in practice now and here. And there is the European Union where there is a table where it is easiest to sit down and negotiate things, and that is what we must do, use it. But that does not mean that we should give up sovereignty, even on 3 December. Of course, you can make intergovernmental voluntary agreements and lift your share of responsibility, and of course you can also encourage others to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143237	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143238	We must address the challenges that exist at EU level, but the Enhedslisten does not believe that we should be a member of the European Union. That's what's left of it. Can the rapporteur himself not hear that, frankly, it sounds a little absurd to try to say that things have to be resolved somewhere, but that the Enhedslisten also believes that we should get out of there as soon as possible. You can't do that. We must recognise that we are facing enormous challenges. I think there are some challenges in the European Union. I think there is also in the United Nations. But these are the bodies where we in Denmark have some opportunities to solve some things and to change some things. These are also the bodies which must then be used. So I would actually like to have the rapporteur's reaction: if you are to resign from the European Union, what is the rapporteur's idea instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143321	I do not know, but perhaps it will help if we recall that not all countries in the world are members of the European Union and that there are some other countries, including European ones, which also cooperate with other European countries sometimes, even if they are not members of the European Union. So, I understand that it is fun to caricate it, but of course we can conclude voluntary intergovernmental agreements with other European countries, including the refugee crisis we are facing right now, even if we do not surrender more sovereignty to the European Union and even if we borrow their table when that is what we have. Of course we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143406	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143411	I would like to know whether the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper, can confirm that there has been a debate in the Enhedslisten on whether the party tax is too high because there were some members in the Enhedslisten who believed that it damaged the incentive to make an effort to pay such a high party tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143433	I could hear from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's party colleague, Jan E. Jørgensen, that what has happened in those debates has been fully understood in the Left. I can confirm that some have made a proposal; I can also confirm that it was then voted down by a huge majority. Yeah, I'm sure there are some people who think it would be a good idea. I think this is a bad idea, and so did the majority of Enhedslisten members, and so does Enhedslisten, because we think it is okay that you pay to the community of our party and, by the way, that you are not a politician just because you want to make money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143510	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143512	So that means that there is no one in Enhedslisten who understands that some others in Enhedslisten believe that they have no incentive to do anything as a result of party tax. So, Enhedslisten will in no way recognise that there may be some incentives associated with taxes, that when you tax something high, it can provide an incentive to do something else. For example: We tax wine and alcohol because it is unhealthy and we want people to drink less. So, does it give some incentives? Will the Enhedslist recognize that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143545	Yeah, but I did that a few minutes ago. In other words, of course there may be incentives, for example. taxes. We can see in the green area, for example, that some of the green taxes we have had have led to some of the most energy-efficient companies in the world in Denmark. Yeah, but that's not exactly what I was asked to do in the first place. Well, I was asked if there had been a debate in the Enhedslisten that one should lower the party tax. Then I would say: yes, there have at least been some people who have thought it, and they have been voted down with a huge bang, and they are, because we do not really think that the incentive to be elected by the Enhedslisten should be that you can make money. It has to be that you want to turn the world into a better place.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143628	Thank you. And then it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143634	Thank you. After all, the Enhedslisten is fighting for Denmark to accept more refugees, and I can see a lot of good arguments for that. The people who apply for this will have a better life if they are allowed to stay in Denmark. It is, in effect, very sympathetic. But I can also see some very strong counter-arguments. One of them is that we are getting a new sub-class, consisting of people from the Middle East, who are on average significantly less educated, less in employment and quite much living in isolation from the rest of the population. In giniterms, immigration means, without discussion, that we will have a more unequal society. That's one of the main reasons, if not the one I would like to hear if it worries Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143722	The growing inequality in Denmark of course worries Enhedslisten. This is perhaps one of the biggest concerns we have at all, and it is, of course, because an equal society is a good society. It ensures better health for everyone, less crime, a strong economy and everything else. I do not think it can be concluded that the fact that there are people who are refugees or immigrants for that matter means that you per. definition will have an increased inequality. But it is true that there are also people who need integration efforts to learn Danish and get help to train and become part of our society. And, of course, we have an integration challenge. There is no doubt about that. And a large part of it is a social issue because too many of those people are let down by the community and end up outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143815	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143816	When you get a lot of people to Denmark, who end up at the bottom of the society, on transfer income with relatively low income, it means an increasing inequality measured in giniterms. I do not think that can be called into question. Does Pernille Skipper disagree with the rationale that when you invite a lot of poor people to Denmark, we get an increasing inequality measured in giniterms?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143847	After all, inequality does not come from the fact that it is people who come from other countries or that they are refugees. The inequality comes from the fact that we have people in our country who do not get a job and who have major social problems. It doesn't really matter where they come from, so we have an inequality problem. It will be among other things. In addition to the reduction of social security benefits. It will be among other things. In addition, there is a reduction in the level of training institutions. It is being increased by poorer social efforts and preventive efforts and very, very many things. But it does not come because people come from other countries. It comes because we have people who lack jobs and have social problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143932	Thank you to the rapporteur. There will then be no further brief comments, and so we will move on to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008143947	First of all, I am sorry that I am somewhat challenged by the vote, but I hope that it will work out. Denmark has a new majority and Denmark has a new government. Hooray first, and congratulations on the second. But now it must be time to turn our ambitions up. In the Liberal Alliance we have gone from a situation where we could mostly move through the public debate and infinitely little through the work at Christiansborg, to a situation where we are the support party for a bourgeois government. I should like to say that we are prepared to take responsibility; not only are we ready, we look forward to financial law negotiations, tax negotiations, foreign negotiations and much more. For now, for the first time in this millennium, we can have an ambitious bourgeois government of both name and benefit. With the previous government, we feared how bad it would be to use Mrs Mette Frederiksen's imagery now when we saw the pot that Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Villy Søvndal had put up for sale for the 2011 elections. Fortunately, it turned out that the horse could run and even in a completely different direction than the horse dealers had promised. That's why we got a government that was just a little bad. Now it seems that we have a government that is a little good, and in this way it has gone in the right direction. It's a government that the Liberal Alliance supports. It is a government that has an ambition to spend the parliamentary term, and it is a government that has an ambition to reduce the tax on the last earned crown by five percentage points. But ambition does not stop there, at least not in the case of the Liberal Alliance. Denmark is a great country, but we can do better. Denmark should be a high-growth country. Denmark should be an innovative country. Denmark should be a country that young people from all over the world want to go to work and study. Denmark should be a country with opportunities for much more. However, this requires reform of the tax and labour market area. The tax must be reduced so that growth and jobs are created. The most effective will be top tax relief. Several must be admitted into the working community. This requires relief at the bottom, but it also requires that we look at the amount of cash aid and that the social partners open up an integration wage. The Danish labour market is closed at the bottom and where the Left believes it is to keep people up, the result is in fact that we keep people out, and we cannot be familiar with that. Now is the time to make the reforms if we are to bring more people into the working community if we are to become a richer country with more opportunities for more people. Of course, not everything is about money, not even for the Liberal Alliance. In this country, where we are zealously demanding most of the citizens' money into taxes and taxes, we at least owe it to the money to be spent wisely. We must expect the Danish state to stand guard over the fundamental rights of its citizens. But it snaps in the joints of the public sector. SKAT has almost collapsed. We have had the case of distress lie to the Folketing and, most recently, the case of peaceful demonstrators who have been deprived of the Tibetan flag on instructions because what they did did did not fit the system. This is a very serious matter. State power must ensure that people who want to use their freedom of expression do not intervene against them. It will be a matter which we will pursue very closely, whether the responsibility lies with the police, with the authorities or at the political level. It must and can be done better. The public sector can be trimmed, the citizens have to go back to the centre. I cannot fail to mention that Europe is in a very special situation with the refugee and migrant crisis that we are facing. And let it be said quite frankly: it has not just arisen, nor does it disappear as if it were a magic trick. That is why we must have clear ambitions to solve the problems, even if it takes time. First of all, it is terrible for those people who cannot live in their country because of war and persecution. We must help them, but above all we must help them in the vicinity. Denmark should therefore take the lead in international donor work. We should cooperate with the European Union and the international community, and we must help to establish safe zones in Syria. The second part of the European crisis is about the fact that there are people who come here with the aim of having a better economic life. As much as we can understand them, we must say that unfortunately this cannot be done. Yes, you can come as immigrants if you have a job already, but the whole world cannot and must not live in Europe. That is why external border controls must also be strengthened. That is, of course, the prerequisite for having a Europe of open internal borders that we want to continue to support. In this context, may I not say that it has been impressive to see to what extent the Danish population has been willing to provide financial assistance in the neighbourhood, and it is warming that more and more people are volunteering and helping in the integration process here in Denmark. Civil society has shown a great responsibility here and has a great job to do, because if we do not solve the challenge of integration, we also face major challenges in this area. Denmark must have ambitions, and the Liberal Alliance has great ambitions on Denmark's behalf. We must have ambitions for high growth, for more jobs and for good integration. If this is to be achieved, it will require that the level of ambition in this House also gets up a little bit. The Liberal Alliance has 13 mandates, which we are very pleased about, and thanks to the 265.129 Danes who voted for us in the elections. We are happy to use their voice to contribute. We are also happy to compromise, but the direction must be up and speed must be increased. Denmark is a lovely country. The ambition must be for Denmark to become an even more beautiful country in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008144636	Thank you. Order! The first brief remark is from Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008144653	Thank you. The rapporteur's great arm movements do not, of course, deny themselves, but now we are calm again. I am particularly sensitive to the fact that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll says that now we have a bourgeois government, not just by name, but by benefit. Is the rapporteur aware of this? So my short question is as follows: what were the demands of the Liberal Alliance to point to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as prime minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008144723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008144725	I regret that there was a little inattentiveness here because the water is teasing, if you can say so. But don't worry, it's just that in the glass. No, silly. The answer to the question from Mr. Jens Joel is that it is not the case that there was one thing that was crucial for us to point to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister in Denmark. After all, we had already told the voters that it was up to us to do Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister after an election, if we had a bourgeois government. And we think that we had some good discussions with the current Prime Minister about this, and we see that there has been a government programme which, as I said, is drawing in a slightly better direction than it did before, and we are, of course, particularly aware of that, and there have also been some ambitions in the area of taxation, and that is something we are emphasising in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008144830	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008144831	Thank you. I thought it would be mentioned, which is why I would just like to confirm that it was actually a demand from the Liberal Alliance that the top tax rate should be reduced to point out Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008144846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008144901	You can read in every newspaper, from when the government was formed, that there was a discussion on that particular issue and that it was very much in the minds of the Liberal Alliance, so yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008144904	The next brief remark is from Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008144908	A few months ago, the Liberal Alliance climate rapporteur said to the newspaper Information, and I quote: "There is no scientific evidence to suggest that climate change is largely due to human activity. And I would like to add that it was not the first and so far not the last time that the Liberal Alliance climate rapporteur has made this point. I have also noticed that Mr. Villum Christensen is not alone in the Liberal Alliance's parliamentary group to have unique views when it comes to climate change. I have noted that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen has previously pointed out that global warming also results in a large number of positive phenomena, including: That fewer people die of cold. And now my question to the rapporteur is: is it really the official climate policy and climate views of the Liberal Alliance that climate change is not man-made and is generally a positive phenomenon?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145012	Well, I can fully confirm Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's statements that there are both positive and negative effects of global warming. I assume that the questioner will also be able to confirm this in a moment, otherwise it will be a rather absurd discussion that we will have if we want to discuss science in this way. In addition, I would like to say that the starting point of the Liberal Alliance's climate policy is that we believe that man-made activity is partly contributing to global warming. Our party leader does, sir. Anders Samuelsen, also very clearly emphasised during the election campaign, and as I said before, it was against that background that 265.129 people chose to put their intersections at the Liberal Alliance. Is there anyone in the Liberal Alliance parliamentary group who believes that it alone is man-made? Maybe there is. Is there anyone who thinks it's not only man-made? Yeah, I can't deny that. I guess it's not that weird. Is it the case that there is such a line of faith in e.g. Enhedslisten? Oh, no, I'm sorry, that was a stupid question. Anyway, I don't suppose there's any religion in most parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145121	Then it's Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145123	Thank you. What I have noted to Mr. Anders Samuelsen was out saying that it is undeniable that for the most part it is man-made. And I would say that everything else would also be a rather crazy view, since there are stacks of evidence that climate change is man-made. And there is also solid scientific evidence that if we do not deal with these challenges in time, it will result in major and serious disasters which will make large parts of this planet uninhabitable for people. But I've noticed that it's still gone, sir. Villum Christensen, climate rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and I would like to know who is drawing on Liberal Alliance's climate policy. And if it is, sir... Villum Christensen, was this the last time we heard him say in the public debate that there is no evidence that climate change is man-made?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145217	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145219	So, I will never stand on the floor of the Folketing and arrange a rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance on the basis of a question from a member of the Folketing from the Enhedslisten. You can ask all the questions you want of that nature. That's not gonna happen. Our climate policy is about solutions. Our climate policy is about ensuring that there is technology development in the green area, and not the tax hell excuse the term "as a majority in the Folketing has imposed on the Danish population. I also think that this was an example of how it is possible to make matters more efficient in this House when Question No 1 is put to the vote. 1 was a question, and Question No 1 was not answered. 2 then the answer to the question you asked first. If you know the answer in advance, why on earth do you ask the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145315	By the way, we must keep to the times. The next brief remark is from Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145321	Thank you. I'd like to sign for a really nice speech. We look forward to making financial legislation with the Liberal Alliance in the near future. In our rapporteur, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen's speech mentioned that we give priority to some of it more than others do, because the economic reality is a little different than we expected. It seems that a little more money is missing in the box than we expected, so I would like to ask what the priorities of the Liberal Alliance are.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145349	I think that's what you call a broad question. I would like to start by saying that we are not in fact surprised by the economic reality. We are, in fact, just glad that the person inside the Ministry of Finance reminds us of the one we all talked about, while the Socialists stubbornly claimed that there was a parallel. But I think we agree with the Left that the facts are where the facts are, and we are starting from that. However, our starting point, also in the discussions that will take place in the financial legislation negotiations, will of course be to ensure that there are some relaxations in relation to ordinary people; to ensure that there are a little less crazy rules; to ensure that there is, you can say, a little more economic freedom. However, over the next few days, the rapporteur will have to wait a little in excitement for our financial legislation to be drowned over various media.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145445	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm? The next brief remark is from Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145453	Thank you for a very good speech. It was also good that the water came under control up there. The government of which the Radical Left was a part made reforms that got 50,000 people into work, and we reduced taxes for both people and companies. We had to understand that the Liberal Alliance wasn't enough. It was too unambitious. The Danish People's Party, on the other hand, felt that too much was happening. Now we have seen what the new government has played out with. There are reforms that get a few hundred in employment and public spending is increasing. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, if not the Liberal Alliance, agrees that it seems that the Left has listened a little more to the Danish People's Party than to the Liberal Alliance in the financial bill and in the speech that was made on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145549	In other words, when I see both the government base that has been created, the financial bill that has come and the speech that was made, I must conclude that it sounds as if the Left has first and foremost listened to the Left. Perhaps it is, as I can see in the PM's body language, not so surprisingly. In other words, we are going to negotiations with the government on the basis that we are, of course, trying to move the Left in our direction, and will the Radical Left bid and make sure that there are more tax cuts and labour market reforms, then I would say that we will ally ourselves with just about anyone who will see to it that this government becomes more liberal than has been proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145633	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145635	We would like to, but we just have the problem that the Left has rejected the reforms that we had as proposals in the election campaign. So far, however, the Left has chosen to increase public spending and to grant State aid to construction companies. Both are opposed by the Liberal Alliance, which is why I would like to ask again: when will the Liberal Alliance step in and get some of its things through, so that it will not only be the Danish People's Party's policy that will be implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145705	Don't worry, sir. Andreas Steenberg. We are, in fact, already in character. Even before Parliament went on summer holidays, we concluded an asylum agreement with the other bourgeois parties, which 1) carried out the service reform on which the Liberal Alliance went to the polls, and 2) set 400 million. kr. I think it is a good thing that we have had a debate on the tax reform, so it was a 2-in-1 situation, and I think that was a very good thing. Now we come to the financial law negotiations, and I promise that we will do our best to deliver for our mandates. And then there will be a tax reform this spring, which is what we consider to be the climax of this Parliament year.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145749	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Trine Torp of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145755	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance speaks a lot about the debureaucratisation of the public sector. We have been doing this in the SF for many years, and we have a number of concrete proposals, and I will return to one of them in a moment. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Liberal Alliance also intends to put forward concrete proposals on how we can eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy and paperwork for public sector employees. Then I will come back to my suggestion here. For could the Liberal Alliance perhaps support the SF's proposal that, in the same way as a business forum for the private sector has been set up, where everyone can make proposals for regulatory simplifications, such a business forum for the public sector could also be set up, so that within a short period of time and with the participation of representatives of the employees and management and experts should review rules and documentation requirements and make a recommendation on what can be removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145859	I would like to say that if this is to be done exactly in the way described by the author, I shall not be a judge, but I would like to acknowledge that the SF is thinking about how to debureaucratise also in the public sector. And if there is something that we in the Liberal Alliance think is important, it is precisely that we have the institutions' own proposals, the employees' own proposals on what to do. Because we actually believe that there is a professionalism out there, which is much more, one can say, near the problems than the reality we are living in here at Christiansborg. So one way or another, we can only support the experience of the employees and the institutions themselves when it comes to debureaucratising.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145944	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008145945	Well, that sounds really good. I did not fully support my proposal, at least wholeheartedly, but I am glad that the intention is there. But is it the case that we can expect to see the Liberal Alliance come forward with proposals on how we can give public sector employees better opportunities to solve their core tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150006-2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150011	The next brief remark is from Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150015	I have the idea that the Liberal Alliance would like to help ensure the business community in Denmark a digital leadership position and, at the same time, also the citizens a good public service. So I would like to ask how the Liberal Alliance and Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll is going to press the government so that we have a slightly more ambitious digital agenda. I think it's absent at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150038	Well, we have one of those. I understand from being one of the few parties who actually have an IT rapporteur. I understand that there has been some dissatisfaction in the environment about this, in other words that a number of parties have dropped it. But we stick to that because we think it is an area that must be given independent priority. But if it is the case that the questioner has some specific points that the questioner would like us to discuss, then finally get on with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150104	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150107	It might be that we were working towards a definite IT and digitalisation committee here in the Danish Parliament. It could be something we're talking about. What does the Liberal Alliance say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150122	It can be said that this is not something we have on the poster immediately, but we feel that we need a very large reform of the parliamentary committee structure. We are happy to discuss this with the Alternative on an equal footing with all other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150129	The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150136	Thank you. I would like to ask where we have the Liberal Alliance in foreign policy. The reason I am asking is, of course, that during the last parliamentary term the Liberal Alliance voted many times with the left on a whole series of easings. A census of Berlingske was made some years ago, which made it happen 20 times that the Liberal Alliance had voted in favour of relaxations along with the left and the then government. During this parliamentary term too, the Liberal Alliance has recently marked itself by calling it obscene, as some of the other bourgeois parties would have taken up some cases concerning the granting of citizenship. At the same time, I have sometimes heard the Liberal Alliance say that the Liberal Alliance has a very strict immigration policy, and I cannot quite make the two things stick together. So I'd like to know if Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll could say whether it is a liberal immigration policy we can expect, or whether it is a strict immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150232	So, in relation to the citizenship case, I would like to say in all kindness and peace that we just did what the Left and the Conservatives meant before the elections. In relation to the rest of the things that are being mentioned, I would like to say that we have a strict liberal immigration policy. It is not a either-or, because we feel that Danish industry needs qualified labour. If you can get a contract with a Danish employer in advance, you should of course be welcome in Denmark. We also believe, if the rapporteur or someone else should marry a foreigner, that he or she should then have the opportunity to get his or her spouse here if he or she can support himself and does not hold back the Danish system. We believe that people who commit crime should be deported by Denmark, also a tighter course than the previous government of the VK, and we believe that there should be an asylum policy, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, where much more help is given in the neighbourhoods instead of here in Denmark. So we believe that we must have an open society to which people who want to contribute can easily come, but we also believe that people who just want to suck up or want to commit crime or undermine the rule of the people must go back home.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150343	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150347	With regard to getting criminals out of Denmark, I hardly think anyone has a different view. I think everyone agrees on that. Then there is the question of labour, and there I understand that the Liberal Alliance will adopt a more professionally-friendly, liberal foreign policy where there must be better opportunities to come to Denmark if one can contribute and support oneself. But then there is the question of refugees. How do you see yourself here? If you have the strings on the one hand and you have people who think we should welcome a lot of refugees on the other, where does the Liberal Alliance place itself on that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150420	With all due respect, although it is I who is the lowest of us, I think that there is a little reading for dwarfs about this, because I said it in my rapporteur's speech, I said it in my first answer, and now I say it again: Liberal Alliance policy is that we think that the vast majority of those who can now get asylum in Denmark should be helped in the neighbourhood rather than in Denmark. That is the policy of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150449	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lea Wermelin from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150454	Thank you. I'd like to get back to the top treasure. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll also mentioned in his speech that the ambitions of the Liberal Alliance are really high in this area, or in fact very low, but what policy should the government pursue according to Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for having listened enough to his parliamentary basis, the Liberal Alliance, in relation to top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150528	Well, we have an expectation that the government will live up to the level of ambition that has been written into the government base.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150533	Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150534	This is a bit exciting, because back in June Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's party colleague, Mr. Anders Samuelsen, during the intergovernmental negotiations on lowering the top tax, and I quote: we are not afraid of anything at all. A government can overthrow itself by not listening to its parliamentary basis. So if the rapporteur stands by what has just been said, what has it to do with the government, if the Prime Minister wants to look at the top tax limit, and not the top tax rate, as otherwise stated in the government base. Is it that the government is about to overthrow itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150605	As in any other case, I am entirely behind the political leader of the Liberal Alliance. So I think it is a fine quote that is read out, which I support 100%, and then I must also agree with the questioner that it will be exciting; it will be really, really exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150626	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150629	Thank you. I was actually gonna ask you something else, but I don't care about it. It's just right to the end, where Mr. Knox... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll says that he stands a hundred percent target for what Mr. Anders Samuelsen has been quoted. Should we then understand that if the government in a future tax reform does not deliver a lower top tax rate, the Liberal Alliance will overturn the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150706	After all, we should not start by threatening to overthrow the government, but it should be understood that we have unsurpassed expectations of the Prime Minister's negotiating skills, if not until the sun burns out, so at least in the spring's tax negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150730	Sir. René Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150732	Yeah, Jeppe. Isn't that a politician's answer? Can the rapporteur just give a clear answer to what the rapporteur says he supports a hundred percent, namely that if the government does not deliver a lower top tax rate, the Liberal Alliance will overthrow the government? When the rapporteur says that he is completely on the target and supports a hundred percent, it is certainly not difficult to answer with either a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150801	Now, first of all, I would like to say that it is difficult for me to give a mechanic's answer or a baker's answer when I am a politician. So it's gonna be a politician's answer, sorry. Having said that, however, I would like to say that the questioner was now quoting so wrongly. And there is no point in someone first making a quote that I say I support, and then someone else misquoting that quote and asking if I agree with it. No, I don't agree with sir. Jeppe Bruus' misquote of the quote which Mrs Lea Wermelin so beautifully formulated.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150840	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Løkkegaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150843	Thank you. After all, I am a great fan of the Liberal Alliance in general and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll in particular. There is only one point on which I may differ slightly, and that is of course ■ and that is probably no surprise on EU policy. In this context, I would like to hear something about the debate now under way on the referendum on 3 December. There it has been the tactic of the Liberal Alliance to argue a lot so far with parallel agreements. I think that, if you want to take the debate that is running seriously, you can say that parallel agreements are, after all, well and thoroughly shot down as an argument. And I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he can confirm that parallel agreements may not be the strongest argument at the moment and, if so, what will be argued by the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008150938	I would like to begin by saying that I also appreciate the questioner, who knows that most people fall for flattery, including myself, so thank you for that. In relation to the EU vote on the reservation of law, I would like to say that this has not actually been an easy decision for us in the Liberal Alliance, because we think that there are good arguments both for a yes and for a no in the legal vote. We still believe, however, that it is a bit of a scandal that the previous government, with Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Minister of Justice, did not ensure that a parallel agreement was negotiated. It is our impression that it was chosen for purely strategic policy reasons, namely that it wanted to scare the people into voting 'yes' by saying that there was no possibility of a parallel agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151027	Sir. Morten Løkkegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151030	Yes, but the rapporteur probably knows that we cannot negotiate a parallel agreement on something that is not yet in force. We have not even begun to negotiate on Europol, so we cannot negotiate on parallel agreements. So it's factually wrong. But back to the question. Can it be imagined that the Liberal Alliance will change the argument and, if so, where will it move if it is not to be parallel agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151056	I have to complain and say that I simply believe that this issue goes beyond my level, because I did not understand it. Well, if it doesn't become a parallel agreement, what are we going to argue for? We know this only after a possible 'no' vote in the referendum on 3 December. And there it will be my claim that we will get so much help from Frau Merkel that you don't dream of it at all. Because she will not want such a small hamlet for international criminals bordering on Germany. I find that very difficult to imagine. So I think that what we need to do is to go back to 1992-1993 and then read everything that those who recommended a 'yes' in 1992 said could not be done and which then happened in 1993 and then I think we will do it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151142	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151146	I'll pick up where my colleague Mr. Jeppe Bruus escaped, for that was a strange answer he received. Now Mr. Emil Ammitzbøll said that it was a politician's answer because he was a politician, but it was almost a parody of a politician's answer, I must say, because instead of answering the question, something was said about the fact that the quote was not quite correct and so on. Now, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll once overturned the water up here, but are you also prepared to overthrow the government? Because that's what this case is about here... in relation to what was said very clearly by the leader of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Anders Samuelsen, this is about the fact that the government would have an extremely short lifespan if it were not involved in lowering the top tax rate. Is it the case that if the government does not deliver, when we arrive at it, as Mr. Emil Ammitzbøll has called this year's climax, namely the tax reform, is the government overturned? Are you giving them a walk in the water like what you did just before from the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151246	I should like to say, like a service briefing, that the rapporteur is Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. I believe that three different names were used during the brief remark. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151257	Yes, and it hasn't even been secret; I've been sitting here for 10 years. But that's the way it is. I'd say we're not threatening. Well, we're not threatening. We are peaceable people of the Liberal Alliance. We just had the pleasure of installing Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in the Prime Minister's Office, and now we look forward to seeing the results of that we have done so. And then I promise, sir. Rasmus Prehn, that with responsibility to our electorate, together with the Prime Minister, we will continuously follow up on whether we think that there is still reason to welcome the situation that arose after the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151338	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151340	Yes, you get nervous now, because you have to say the name quite correctly, and you have to be careful that you do not quote wrong. There really is a pressure of expectation here. But what is being asked about is quite simple. When it is said so clearly that the government can expect a very short or extremely short life span, is it not the same as overturning the government if they do not deliver in relation to the top tax rate?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151410	It is strange, though, if it is so clear: why do you keep asking?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151424	The next brief remark is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151427	Thank you. I have heard politicians from the Liberal Alliance say on several occasions that you are in favour of maximum openness in the public sector. I think that is a very good thing to do in the Enhedslisten too, and that is why I was very disappointed after the elections when the Liberal Alliance together with the Left defeated the Iraq Commission. It was precisely intended to shed light on the wars of Denmark in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the Commission had even called on the former President of the Left, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, to testify under responsibility, but that was also ended. So I would like to hear: why did the Liberal Alliance support the fact that the Left closed the Commission which was supposed to create openness and democratic control?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151509	I'd like to correct a misunderstanding. So, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm may not have been disappointed after the elections, but before the elections if she went along with the then Liberal Alliance actually told the electorate that if there were a majority with the Liberal Alliance, we would end the Iraq Commission. And we have the principle that we really want to implement what we say to the electorate before the elections that we want to do. So we've actually just lived up to another one of our election vows. Then it is true that we are also quite concerned about the issue of openness, and that is why we also believe that the documents, which could be made available under current rules, should also be published now. That is our position and we are discussing it with the government and hope to find a solution to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151602	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151604	I also think that the documents should be presented. But I have to say that I think that it would seem a little like a free round if, when you are in favour of openness, you were at the same time helping to bring down the commission that was supposed to dig up the truth. Whether it was before or after the elections, I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance really believes that it is right when the Left says that everything has come out in this matter and that there is no longer any basis for investigating anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151632	In the Liberal Alliance, we are very cautious about setting up such commissions. We think it is very appropriate in relation to what the Minister of Justice has done, in other words in relation to what is called the Tibet case, where there is something to be done and where citizens' rights have been violated. As far as the Iraq Commission is concerned, it is our view that this is an old political dispute between the left and the old VKO majority, probably from a time before the Liberal Alliance had emerged. We have said to our electorate before the elections that we would support the closure of the relevant commission. Now, if I had taken the opposite view and agreed with Mrs Flyvholm and said: OK, we are re-establishing it, I am quite sure that one of the quote-democrats from the wing would come running and say that yes, but you promised that you would abolish the Iraq Commission. And then I'd be in a catch 22 like that where everything was wrong, and I don't want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151737	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151743	Thank you so much. According to the Ministry of Finance, it costs 6.8 billion. kr. to abolish the top tax. If you want a concept of what 6.8 billion. kr. is, one can look at the government's overall savings in the Finance Act. The two figures match, and there you can go out and ask the schoolteachers, the educators and the researchers who are affected by this saving if you want to have a concept of what it means for welfare to remove the top tax. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll: Why is it that the Liberal Alliance wants to abolish the top tax, and is it still a firm demand from the Liberal Alliance that if the government does not lower the top tax rate in the spring negotiations, then the Liberal Alliance will overturn the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151829	Is it still our policy to get rid of the top tax? Yes, it is. Why do we mean that? Because it's one of the most sensible things you can do if you want to get this country going, even though it's obviously not a theme that fills so much in this hall. It's hard to find 6.8 billion. kr. in a public budget in the region of 1,000 billion. kr.? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151852	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151855	Can we not then, in the interests of the general good, have a firm guarantee? Is that a yes or a no from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll on the following: Will the Liberal Alliance, in the spring tax negotiations, overthrow the government, as Mr. Anders Samuelsen said shortly after the election if the government does not deliver on lowering the top tax rate? A yes or no answer, please!
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008151920	Yes, but this was a repeat of that bogus, sir. Jeppe Bruus did. And no matter how many times you try to twist Mr. Anders Samuelsen's quote, I only comment on it if you read it correctly, as Mrs Lea Wermelin was kind enough to do. So if you read it the same way, I'll answer, but if you try to make another quote, then I'm not dealing with false quotes. That's gotta be it. And by the way, I think it's a little sweet of the Socialists to seem to care a lot about whether Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was to be overthrown during the spring. I do not know whether it should be understood that the Socialists will then hold their hands under the Left Government in order to avoid any pressure in the tax negotiations. I did not understand Mrs Mette Frederiksen at the Socialist Congress.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152004	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152010	There's been a bit of water running in the creek since mr. Andreas Steenberg asked questions earlier, but I still think it is worthwhile to stay a little longer if we have to get back to the reforms at the level of ambition. When we sat in government, we often met criticism from the Liberal Alliance that our reform agenda was not ambitious enough at all. I believe that we made reforms that, by 2020 in total, will contribute well and well 28,000 additional people in employment, 50,000 lasting. Even if the Liberal Alliance succeeds in getting the mark on the top tax rate carried out, for example. If we do not succeed in this, then we shall not be near the reform programme of the previous government. And that's where I'm gonna ask Mr. Kim. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll: If we were unambitious with our reform programme, what would be termed the current government reform programme?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152114	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Morten Østergaard and the rest of the radical-socialist government regularly sent thanks to the previous Prime Minister, that is to say the current Prime Minister, who had provided both a pre-retirement wage reform and a unemployment benefit reform, which is, as such, the most important reforms in recent times in this country. It hasn't much to do with what happened back then, sir. Morten Østergaard was a minister, because you just went on and on. I said in my speech that we do not think the new government is ambitious enough. And I can promise you, sir. Morten Østergaard, that we are going to go into any negotiating room with the Prime Minister, with the Minister for Finance, and even with the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make sure that it is better when we go out than it was when we walked through the door. If sir... Morten Østergaard would like to help with it instead of this sniper-fnadder competition, we are also happy to participate with Mr. Morten Østergaard and the Radical Left's help.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152213	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152215	Well, I'm not gonna blame sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for not fully mastering the effects of reform. The 28 000 that I spoke about are the result of the reforms carried out under the SR government, and not of either the withdrawal reform or the unemployment benefit reform. They contribute something more, strictly speaking, if we are to be completely honest. But the point is just here, I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, that if you look at the reform accounts of the SR government and compare it with what is in the government programme of the current government, it will not tolerate any comparison. That's why it just sounds a little hollow when you say that you want to work with anyone to make progress on more reforms in Denmark, when it turns out that you should have collaborated more with the SR government, because the Left Government doesn't have the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152258	Now you have to be careful what numbers you take up. The first Finance Act under the Thorning Government actually reduced the supply of labour. Those are the facts. It was the first Finance Act under the Thorning Government. Here, however, things are progressing a little, and I am counting on it to be more progress when we leave the room with the Prime Minister and other good ministers. So I don't quite understand the concern. I would also like to say that, when we talk about the effect I am talking about, it is only in relation to what we ourselves did, I have to say that it would have been even greater if we had taken what was really battling. The whole point is that what is in the government base does not always become one in reality. Well, sir, that's what I'm supposed to do. Morten Østergaard as well as know; he is such an expert as Minister of the former Red Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152357	The next question is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152400	Thank you. Now the rapporteur insists very strongly on making some correct quotations, so I have now taken some quotes from the rapporteur himself. The rapporteur says that the Prime Minister has been installed in the Prime Minister's Office. I guess you have an expectation or a wish for this installation. But to the rapporteur of the Radicals Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll the following: Well Left came in his financial act with some things where they have only listened to the Left. So you haven't listened to the Liberal Alliance. And to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's question about the priorities of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll: Well we just want to make arrangements for relaxation in relation to ordinary people, we don't want to threaten. Those were some of the things that came out. But what puzzles me here is what the Liberal Alliance wants when it actually installs a Prime Minister in the Prime Minister's Office and one's greatest desire to lower the tax rate is not met.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152513	I have a great deal to say about the new Prime Minister, but I have not thought of him as a work of art until now. When I say that we have installed, it is, of course, that we have put mandates behind the majority that is in the Folketing. And we have clearly said that we expect to have the tax cuts that Mrs Yildiz Akdogan is asking about in the spring. However, it would be strange when we have the agreement with the government that we expect them to come in the spring, that we complain that they did not come in the autumn. That would, however, be a really strange reproach. We will be blaming governments very much, we will probably also be blaming this government, but not things that we have agreed with them ourselves and that they are doing just as they are doing in the way we have agreed. I think so. No, I'm sorry! I don't really think you can afford that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152604	You can't swear either, even if you've been in the Folketing for many years. Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152608	Thank you. So the Liberal Alliance's greatest wish is to reduce the tax Then there is an expectation that something will happen there next spring, that is, an expectation that the government will take seriously the mandates of the Liberal Alliance. What if it doesn't happen? Is the Liberal Alliance so ready to overthrow the government, which among other things... The President of the Liberal Alliance has also been out to say and has actually indirectly threatened?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152640	No, it is becoming an increasingly interesting web of thought that we are witnessing here. So, we agreed with the new government that we should negotiate tax reductions in the spring. Then I am asked, now that the government does not deliver what we have agreed to do in the spring, even now, if we are disappointed. No, we're not, because that's what we agreed. So it's kind of by appointment. So it would be very strange if I were disappointed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152719	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152722	Thank you. I would like to return to the climate crisis and energy policy. For I have just a little doubt as to where the Liberal Alliance stands in relation to the efforts that can be made to convert the Danish and European energy systems into 100% renewable energy. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, if he recognizes that when, for example, we get there. Talking about energy technology, clean market prices rarely reflect the health, environmental and climate pressures associated with the extraction and use of fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152759	I think it is very important to understand that our view is not a view that you can just pollute as you like. Well, of course, we believe that people should be protected. No doubt about it. Because if you think there's just such a logic that it can just run out there and that it doesn't matter if people fall down dead, then it's a very caricatured concept of what the Liberal Alliance stands for. But as I see it, it is not there either, the real discussion and disagreement. As I see it, the disagreement is whether, in a country that pays some of Europe's highest energy prices and where companies and individuals are loaded up with taxes, we should continue along the road of taxation or whether we should continue along a research and development path. And we mean the last, but I can then unfortunately understand that there is a broad majority in the Folketing that means the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152858	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152900	Thank you. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can recognise that taxes have the function of recognising these so-called externalities and that subsidy schemes can also work a little in the same way, and that it is actually necessary to use such instruments in order to create this conversion to a hundred per cent renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008152923	I think we may have different perceptions of a switch to 100% renewable energy. If that is what this is all about, I believe that the market mechanisms will manage on the day that there are no more forms of energy such as oil and coal and such things. Then they will be phased out and other things will be invented, etc. It has happened so throughout history that when things have become more expensive, things have been invented that are not nearly as expensive and that can therefore replace the old ones; they can be energy sources, or they can be other things. Therefore, be careful not to use all your energy... excuse the word "sorry" to make it more difficult than necessary instead of just waiting for what might now happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153012	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153017	Thank you. I would like to sign for the rapporteur's speech. However, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll saying that he suffered from a failure to vote. You might as a conservative think that's a little bit bold, but peace be with it. The rapporteur has stressed several times that we need to address our climate challenges, among other things. This is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur very briefly whether he considers it problematic that it is proposed to save 322 million. kr. in 2016 in the draft budget submitted for research and development in what is called the EUDP.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153056	Can I hear the last word again? In what?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153104	EUDP.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153108	It is the case that if you look at the draft budget, it is clear that the part dealing with research has not grown in the garden of the Liberal Alliance. We have not proposed that there should be less funding for research. We think it's fine with this 2% re-priority that you have in all areas, but in other areas we have to say that it's probably something we're going to have some discussions about with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153134	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153135	I am, of course, very pleased to hear that, because I think it is very crucial. I would like to ask you something else. Now the rapporteur mentioned earlier that there was an IT rapporteur, and one was particularly proud of that, because it showed that priority was given to this area. Then I would just like to ask what signal we should be sending out that the Liberal Alliance, as the only party, does not have a climate rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153156	We think it is more important to have an energy rapporteur, since that is what we have to decide here in the Folketing. You can have many ideas, which I have already been questioned about in the past. What we are concentrating on is to look at the energy challenges that may be, and that is why we think it is appropriate to have an energy rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153215	Thank you. The last one asks, and it fits almost on the second. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Søren Egge Rasmussen stands at the right place? Try to move a tooth to the right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153252	Okay. Someone turned on my neighbor's microphone. I'm not much for moving right. I heard the rapporteur mention green growth in his speech and one of the answers highlighted technology development. I would like to urge the rapporteur to take very seriously the proposal on energy technology that has come from the government. Because if we look at what has been the driving force behind developments in Denmark, we can see that there has been an export of energy technology of over 60 billion. kr. This is among other things. driven by the fact that we have an industry in Denmark that has developed quietly. There is this energy technology development and demonstration programme that we have had over several years, extremely important, and it is here that it is a disaster if it is the case that the government is not stopped in its cuts in funds. So I think that there is a special commitment for the Liberal Alliance as the parliamentary basis for the government not to support these cuts if you really want technology development to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153401	Now it is not because I am going to destroy the afternoon of the questioner, but either because of this failure to vote, which Mrs Abildgaard also spoke about earlier, or because the questioner has not heard what I said. I was talking about high growth, not green growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153420	Is there any further comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153424	I would urge the Liberal Alliance to take this area a little more seriously if you really want the development of technology to be something that is essential for Danish business and that you listen a little bit to what is being said from the outside. There are organisations such as Dansk Energi, and there are companies such as Grundfos and E.ON, which in general point out that it is important that green development continues in Denmark. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this. Does it not make the impression that there are large players who think that the development and the energy policy we have had so far are essential?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153506	It always makes an impression when there are people who come from the business community and tell us how they look at things. But contrary to what some have prejudices about, it is not always possible for us to agree with any company that comes and tells about what they think. Our starting point is that we want to make the Finance Act more growth-oriented and that we want tax reform with significant tax reductions, including top tax. That is the objective of the Liberal Alliance in this Assembly. Then it may well be that Enhedslisten thinks it should have been some other priorities, but it has to be said that that is what the electorate took a position on three months ago, and there they gave the Liberal Alliance a mandate to work for what we have now chosen to work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153552	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008153605	In the alternative, we have an enormous respect for bottom lines. But we are working not only on an economic bottom line, but also on a social and environmental bottom line. For us, it is important that there is a surplus on all three bottom lines so that growth and prosperity are not created at the expense of people and the environment. That is how we define a sustainable society. The idea of the three bottom lines will thus constitute the coordinates that we set the course and the compass for when we are going to navigate around here at Christiansborg, and when we are going to try to steer Denmark in a more sustainable direction. For that is what we want in the Alternative to try to steer Denmark towards a serious sustainable transition. We want to go where no more resources are spent than the planet can restore, and we want to go where we go from cashier thinking to human and environmental thinking. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's opening speech and the Finance Bill leave little doubt that the government has set a completely different course for Denmark than the alternative one. It is a course of saving billions on education and development aid; it is a course of taking money from the people on cash aid who already have the least and giving tax relief to those who already have the most. And then it is a course where you cut the climate and environmental efforts and drop the Fund for Entrepreneurship, which could otherwise have helped create the jobs of the future. Yes, to put it bluntly, it is, to say the least, a worrying course that the government has taken, and this unfortunately leaves the impression that Denmark, rather than a government of the future, has had a past government. It is a government that would rather push the bill on to our children and grandchildren than push society in a more forward-looking and sustainable direction. The Prime Minister's opening speech was therefore not further uplifting. In fact, however, it was neither the tax cuts to industry, nor the reduction in development aid nor the patching-up of agriculture that impressed us most. No, what made the most of us was, in fact, everything that was not said. That is all that was not said about the climate crisis, everything that was not said about the UN's new and historic sustainability targets, and everything that was not said about the forthcoming COP21 meeting in Paris, where Denmark has to push for an ambitious climate agreement. Not once did the Prime Minister use the words "climate, environment, sustainability or nature" and even just over a month before the government goes to a climate summit in Paris. On the other hand, he emphasised that the government intends to roll NO x It is all short-term initiatives that risk having long-term consequences. Unfortunately, we don't really know how to shout the government. Actually, we don't even know if anyone can yell at the government. All we know is that Earth calls and that we have heard it. It goes without saying that, as a society, we cannot continue to use unlimited resources on a planet that has limited resources. The green transition is first and foremost important for the environmental bottom line, but it is also important for the economic bottom line at least if you turn on the long light and look a little further into the future. For the possibilities of the green transition are many, and it has the potential to become an engine under Denmark's future competitiveness, economy and employment. Why? Because we have some fantastic and beneficial weather and wind conditions because we have an energy network of the highest quality and a stable security of supply, and because we already have a good deal of export when it comes to green energy technology and ecology. Indeed, so much so that right now we find it difficult to meet the demand for organic food. We must continue to exploit these conditions. In this way, we will secure a fair share of the 20 million jobs created, according to the European Commission, in the green economy. Specifically, we could, for example, do this. redeploy business support so that it went to sustainable businesses or we could introduce a green tax reform that takes into account entrepreneurs and businesses who take responsibility for climate, environment and nature. In short, we can easily make it easier for companies to do the right thing, and many of the companies actually want to do it. For example. both Grundfos, Niras and EnviDan demand that we have a greener business policy, and only yesterday the energy company E.ON threatened to withdraw from Denmark because of the government's latest zigzag course. This shows that several companies want the green transition, and this is the kind of thing that makes us both worried at one and the same time, but also has a very great hope for Denmark. As you know, the opening debate is based on the Prime Minister's opening speech, but the fact is that it is not only the Prime Minister and the Left with whom the alternative will cooperate. Because we want to work together with everyone, and fortunately there is good reason to dive into the broad cooperation not only because we have a narrow government, but also because we believe that Denmark's success depends on good cooperation. Therefore, I will spend the last part of my speaking time on some of the areas where we see opportunities for cooperation with each and every one of you. We believe that we can work with the Social Democratic Party, because there has been a great deal of good on your part over the years • e.g. Dan Jørgensen. When Dan Jørgensen was Minister for Food, he was behind a commitment to ecology, and for a party that would like 100 percent ecological conversion for Denmark, it really gives hope for a fruitful collaboration. We can also work together on aspects of welfare policy. You usually say that the widest shoulders must carry the heaviest load. We agree with that, which is why we see neither zero growth nor top tax relief as sustainable responses to the challenges of time. You will not have zero growth in the Danish People's Party either. On the other hand, as we do, you want greater openness to the complementary health care system. In fact, the complementary health service can support the traditional health care system, which is currently very much under pressure. And then we have not forgotten that you were the first to support our proposals on citizens-driven proposals in this Chamber, and we will be re-submitting them in this session. This shows that we have a common interest in bringing citizens closer to Christiansborg. To the Prime Minister and the rest of the Left, I would like to say that, despite the content of the government's draft budget, I do believe that the Left shares the alternative's ambition that Denmark should have a stronger entrepreneurship and that we share the desire that more people should move from being job-seekers to being job-creating. We have a lot of concrete bids, but we are also happy to listen to you. We are also happy to listen to Enhedslisten, and this applies especially to social sustainability. You have a tradition of pleading the cause of the weak and fighting inequality. We would like to sign for this because it is an agenda which is also very close to us. As do areas such as monitoring and digital freedoms, climate and the environment, so here we believe that we can have a very special cooperation. To our blue friends in the Liberal Alliance, I would like to say that we can quickly agree that we want more entrepreneurs, and we also want the public sector to be debureaucratic. Perhaps that is why it should be our parties that are taking the initiative in a confidence reform that gives more freedom and less bureaucracy and gives more confidence and less control in the public sector. At any rate, the public sector, which is currently caught in control, needs to be freed so that employees are free to do their job. If I turn to the Radical Left, I see a strong sparring partner when it comes to the European Union and cultural policy. In the alternative, we have an ambition that art and culture should be re-cultivated as a political focus area that can help drive forward the development of society. If we are to succeed, we see the Radicals as a strong player. We do the same when we speak circular economy, which also has a great focus on you, and that is why we may be able to create some of the solutions of the future together, so that the pressure on the globe and the scarce resources is eased. Our planet is one of the most important things for the alternative, which is why we were saddened that Green Steen had to leave SF's group at the election. On the other hand, we are pleased that the SF~s battle against shale gas clearly shows that the green ambitions did not check out with him. The fight for the climate has never been more important, and the alternative and SF have together with others. The Enhedslisten and the Radicals are a very important task in securing a strong climate majority, which sends Denmark back into the green driver's shirt. Speaking of the climate majority, I would like to say to the Conservative People's Party that you deserve praise. You deserve praise for being the party that is currently raising the green flag in the blue camp. We would like to thank you for this, because we are grateful, and so will our children and grandchildren. Speaking of children and their families, I would like to say that it may well be that you do not think that a 30-hour working week is a good idea, but we nevertheless hope that we can work together to achieve a better balance between work, school and family life, so that we remove the pressure on families. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that we are serious when we say that we are going to work here at Christiansborg based on the ideal of a triple bottom line. And we are also serious when we say that we want to cooperate. We have a lot of good ideas about where and how, and we're sure you all do. That's why we're happy to listen to you, because we believe basically that more people know more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154618	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154624	Thank you very much for the alternative of picking up, or whatever to call it, here today. After all, there are a number of wishes and there are a number of visions, and we may need that in here sometimes to be honest now and then. One of those visions I understand as this 30-hour week of work. There are various other things that we would like to see from the point of view of the alternative. Tomorrow, then, the alternative will have to go to the Ministry of Finance and negotiate finance laws. There's this famous sign on the finance minister's desk. It says: Where should the money come from? I would really like to anticipate the events a little and ask the rapporteur this question: where will the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154710	A great many of the proposals put forward by the Alternative are, in fact, within the framework already used. When we talk about converting business support into green business support, for example, it is to spend the same money that we are spending today, but to spend it wiser. We believe that if we look through the Finance Act, we can help the author's party to find some wiser ways of spending some of the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154735	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154736	It was a tiny bit diffused. So let me be a little more specific. Speaking of this 30-hour week, I think it was 120 billion. kr., it would cost. Can you find them by a switch with some green pools and something?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154757	I guess it wasn't just 120 billion now. kr. I think it was 270 billion. kr. in one of the equations that came out. It was very violent, but the questioner can call Kraka for more numbers. After all, we believe that this is a development that needs to be addressed. We believe that it is wiser to tackle developments rather than be pushed by them, and we know that in the future there will be less work. So let's share it, and let's have some more time for each other. We are not saying that it should be introduced tomorrow. We are saying: let the social partners discuss this and then we will have it phased in over a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154833	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154836	I am really glad that we have another ally in the green fight, there should be no doubt about that. But in relation to the distribution campaign, I have a little more doubts as to what the alternative would like, and so I would ask quite frankly and very curiously: when Mr. Uffe Elbæk mentions that the alternative is in favour of user fees for medical visits, is that the policy of the alternative? Because it would be nice to have a clarification of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154906	Firstly, I would like to say that the alternative works for a distribution policy in which we have a more equal society, because that is necessary. In the article to which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr refers, Mr. Uffe Elbæk on how our health system is in general today. And we have There is also quite clear in the alternative party programme that we will work to remove user fees, all user fees, in the health care system, including dentists and psychologists, where there are user fees today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154940	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008154942	To be absolutely sure that I understand it correctly: what the alternative means is that there should be no user fees for visits to doctors and that that, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk said earlier, that there should be user fees for visits to doctors, that if you didn't show up, you should pay 100 kroner because you forgot to cancel, then isn't the policy in force? It's really sincere because I can't figure it out, it's not to tease.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155011	So let's take the truth first. Quite frankly, the alternative will work to abolish user charges in health care. Period. Furthermore, I do not know exactly what the interview is to which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr refers, so I cannot stand and explain the complications in relation to it. However, since we had a health policy programme in the alternative, it has been very clear that we would like to work on abolishing user charges, which we unfortunately have plenty of today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155039	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155040	Thank you. Welcome. I would say that somewhere it is refreshing when there is a new party with a new style and so on. We also found this out in relation to the housing allowance scheme, where we found each other, and we can therefore continue that scheme in a new, revised version on the basis of some principles that the Alternative and other parties, SF etc. also had. What is my question is about the European Union. When you want something that is close to the people, I do not quite understand the fact that, in relation to EU policy, the Alternative wants to transfer more and more to the European Union, because it removes the decisions of the people with whom you would otherwise like to engage in dialogue, so that we can have a lively dialogue in our democracy about what should happen, especially when it comes to, for example, the issue of democracy. Such things as the distribution of refugees, migrants, where the alternative has been set on a course that, whatever the EU may decide, Denmark should follow it and take the share that the EU may decide, so that it is out of our hands in this way. I would like to have a little more understanding of why that conclusion has actually been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155155	When we talk about refugees and asylum, and especially the challenges we face today, no country can solve it alone. Denmark cannot, Germany cannot, Greece cannot, Italy cannot. That is why we need to resolve this together, and there we believe that binding and solidarity responsibilities that we can take through the European Union are the way forward. We think this is the way forward, because that is how we can start to solve it. This is how we can begin to look at how we can help those countries that receive thousands a day, which, of course, they cannot deal with down in Greece on the small islands. There we have to take some responsibility. We have to say to our partners in the European Union: we want to take part in this responsibility; we do not need to close ourselves in and say that you have to deal with it yourself. We do not think this is necessary to remove the decisions from the population; on the contrary, we want the people to be consulted on this, and that is why we are proposing that the people should vote on it on 3 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155246	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155248	But that is exactly the dilemma I think there is. Because we can of course disagree on how many Denmark should house here, compared to how many we help in the neighborhoods. There we can have a political disagreement. But what I find interesting with regard to the approach of the Alternative is that the people are consulted and that the people actually have some influence on the fact that democracy lives, that we have the rule of the people and thus also have a direct influence on what comes out of it. And that is not the case when it is in Brussels that you make a decision based on some quota discussion and then inform Denmark: so many here you have to take. Then it's out of the hands of the people. So why not hold the discussion I had just said, domestic, so it is useful that the Danes engage? And then the two of us can fight about what is the right number and how Denmark should engage in it, but then it is on the basis of the people's decisions that things are being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155348	We fully agree that decisions should be taken so close to where appropriate. But when we talk about refugees and the asylum challenge that we are facing today, it is not a Danish problem, it is a European problem, and there we also have democratic institutions within the European Union that we believe can help solve those problems. There is no point in believing that we can stand here in the Chamber and solve a problem that has an effect not only on the whole of the European Union, but on the whole of Europe and the surrounding regions. There we need to enter into binding cooperation, international cooperation, and there we believe that the European Union is a good tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155424	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155428	Thank you. I have noted that something that has been very close to the alternative has been the discussion about refugee flows and how we act in Denmark, but also what is happening in the world. That leads me, of course, to say that there is a reason why, among other things. are large streams of refugees. One of them is that we have a dictator in Syria, Assad, who flies out and bombs his own people, and those he does not hit take Islamic State. Can we count on the support and support of the Alternative for us to bomb Assad and also have soldiers on the ground in Syria so that we can stop these atrocities for the people of Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155506	Thank you for the question. No, you can't. As the situation in Syria today seems to me, a military solution is not at all a path worth going down. I believe that, particularly with the developments that have taken place around the whole of Western Syria, where we see Russia playing an increasingly important role today, there is only one way forward to resolve this conflict, and that is a political path. And there I would like us to play a really active role on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155531	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155533	However, does the rapporteur not agree with me that it may seem a bit like symptom treatment that we are discussing how x number of thousands of refugees are to be distributed in the European Union while we are still looking at and closing our eyes to millions of people being bombed and internally displaced in Syria? Then we say we have to talk about that, but I don't think you can talk about that very much. I think there's one thing Assad understands, and that's if he flies out and bombs his own people, we'll shoot his plane down. We need to create safe zones so that the acids can be safe in their own country. Is that not what is important, that is, that people can be safe in their own country?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155609	Yes, I fully agree that standing here and talking about how we distribute 120,000 refugees is symptom treatment. However, I do not agree that we cannot find a political solution. And I do not agree that it would be an answer to go out and start a war on Russia and Assad right now. On the contrary, I think that would be a really, really bad way to go. But I think that Denmark should really lay down in the lead seat and send our dear Foreign Minister to fight for peace, including in Syria. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155638	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155643	I am glad that there has been a new Green Party in the Folketing. Like the alternative, the Enhedslisten shares these concerns about what kind of government we have now and how it will cut down on climate and energy and environmental efforts in general. We are concerned about the sustainable transition, and there are, of course, some opportunities to find alternative majority voting. I therefore find it interesting that the rapporteur attaches importance to this cooperation. There are some options. We have a climate agreement of 40%. CO2 The agreement has been made between the previous government, Enhedslisten and Conservatives, and if we now get the alternative included in that agreement, then there is, in fact, a green majority outside the government, which can work for 40%. CO 2 2 more. And that's what we're supposed to do. It is a process in which we can create jobs and achieve a good sustainable transition. Is it the case that the alternative would like to enter into that agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155755	I can choose to answer very briefly, or I can cause a little over it. But I will start by saying: yes, of course we will. After all, we must have clear and clear objectives to pursue. We, as a state, must do so in relation to what investments we have to make, but the business community also needs that, so that they know what they have to prepare for, so that they can go the right way. So, of course, we want to be part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155818	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155823	Thank you. I think it is interesting what types of alternative majority can be found bypassing the government. We saw it quite recently where we had a majority together with the Danish People's Party to ban four new GM maize species. There was also the alternative in that majority, and now we can look forward to having an alternative majority outside the government in terms of climate and energy. This reminds me of the old days when there was a footnote policy in foreign policy. It was really exciting then, and I think it will be exciting to see what solutions we can make. I would like to hear a little more about whether we cannot get a little closer to what business development we can get, which can play along with climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155906	Basically, as I said in my speech, we would like to take the business support and say: let us use it on the green transition; let us use it to help companies to do the right thing and to do the right thing. We think that is the way forward. We believe that this is the way forward, also because we can help to influence developments if, instead of constantly following developments, we take the lead. All of a sudden, we will be surprised at how developments are going to happen if we do nothing now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155933	Thank you. And the next question is Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008155937	Thank you for that, and from here too there must be a welcome on the platform. There's tradition of being made a small petition down here as a receipt for it. Also welcome in relation to work. I think that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said that it is always fresh when there is a new party with new ideas and new visions; there is always a need for that. But there is always one, but once that has been said, it can be said that the visions must somehow be translated to some extent. That is why, like what Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen asked, try to attach a little attention to some of the visions presented by the Alternative, among others. this much-mentioned 30-hour working week as an example, but it is perhaps a very good and illustrative example of the alternative's thought set, one might say. The rapporteur himself mentioned the cost of 270 billion. kr., I think it was. My own rapporteur was corrupted when he was more modest. But okay, 270 billion. kr. must be phased in over a few years. I do not know whether the rapporteur could perhaps come a little closer to what kind of source of funding he envisages to be used in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160047	I could do that. Now it was with a big smile on my face that I said 270 billion. kr., for the think tank that came with that number had to say that they hadn't actually calculated it. For they had not taken into account that there were part-time jobs and what other consequences could be the reduction in working time. So it was kind of a number that was spat out from a simple arithmetic model. What we are not aware of when we talk about a 30-hour week is that more and more researchers are actually pointing to the fact that it may be too unambitious, that is to say that we may have to go further into time. Because there is just less and less work, and we must all share it so that we can all take part in it, and so that we can also take part in the society around us, because we will then have more time. We believe that by having the social partners sit down and find out, they can phase it out over a 10-year period by looking at the rise in wages for some rich and a few hours of decline for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160139	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160142	Yes, but our approach by the Left is, in fact, to create a framework for more work, that is, for more people to get to work, for real work. I think that is the healthiest approach to it. I can see that in relation to that vision of 270 billion. kr. or 120 billion. Whatever it was, what the Minister of Finance is putting forward is the worse greasyness with a few billion kroner we are going to be negotiating about, in other words, in relation to the visions that are being presented here. But I still think it might be useful to come just a little closer to the earth, if I may say so. So, couldn't the rapporteur just be a little more specific about how he imagined this was going to be carried out in a purely financial way?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160221	Well, we have presented the purely financial implementation up to a number of times. In the election campaign we were out talking a lot about this, and there was so much grin that we could even imagine something similar. What we are saying is that there are some negotiations between the social partners and that you can start by agreeing on • if there is a desire to reduce working time. And yes, it may well be that there should not be such an increase in wages and that in this way a rise in wages can be translated into a reduction in working hours. Because we see that more and more people are stressed. We see that more and more families cannot make everyday life hang together. And so more and more people want to have more time for each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160256	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160302	I mean, if you want to give families the opportunity to go down more in time, you just have to put the tax down. They will then have the opportunity to make those priorities themselves. It was such a good suggestion from here. But I really wanted to ask you about the alternative's vision of Danish ecology: 100%. ecology in 2040. I would just like to ask whether one has thought about the consequences of a vision of 100% ecology, because what will naturally happen if all production here in Denmark is to be converted into ecology is the first thing that there are very many jobs that will close down, there are very many families that will not be able to go down in time because they simply become unemployed. Therefore, a question from me will be: how will you secure Danish jobs, how will you ensure that you do not have an environmental increase in emissions, because instead we are going to import food products into Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160357	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160359	Well, I cannot agree with the questioner, because if we convert to ecology, there is more work in it, because it is a more labour intensive agriculture. As far as food processing is concerned afterwards, we should perhaps look at providing ecological quality from Denmark, so that we can keep jobs, develop more jobs, instead of dismantling them, which are unfortunately being done, when we look at the whole value chain in agriculture today, when jobs are going out, because it cannot be cheap enough, and it will never be so cheap.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160432	Thank you. Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160434	Danish grain is already close to being unsellable. We see some gardeners who are having a really, really difficult time with the large PRS tax that is at home. We see horticulture, which also today closes jobs, and there is nothing to make anyone think that there will be a greater ecological buy-out here at home. You just want to import other places from the world. Then you will buy ordinary tomatoes from the Netherlands and you will buy pigs from Germany instead. So I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur think that better animal welfare can be achieved by obtaining pork from Germany instead of the pork we have here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160508	Right now, we are seeing an increased demand for ecology. In fact, we cannot keep up with the demand on export markets for ecology. We see conventional dairy farmers under pressure on the economy right now, and at the same time we see an organic milk that can be sold. So I cannot follow the questioner's concern, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160530	The next question is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160534	Thank you to the alternative for a very constructive speech. As a debureaucratic rapporteur for my own party, I look forward to working together to try and solve the problems that bureaucracy brings with it. After three months in office, I can already say that it will probably be difficult, because I am approaching the conclusion that Glistrup was right in most of what he said before he went to prison. But my question is about something else. Will there be a list from the alternative of raw materials which are critically lacking in Denmark and which therefore fall within the immediate scope of the Folketing to remedy the lack?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160621	I know the alternative is not developing such a list, but we know, of course, if we follow the research around Denmark and around the world, that there are resources that are scarce. There are some resources that the earth cannot restore. We need to be careful about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160638	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160642	What causes me to ask is that in general terms, the price of almost all the goods you can think of falls, and when the price falls, it is because there is a very large supply, otherwise the price would rise.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160658	For example, if we take fossil fuels, I would say that there is a low price because we actually choose to support it four times as much as we do with renewable energy. So it's not just the market. It is also the state aid that is globally for these things that help to influence prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160715	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160718	Thank you. I would actually like to ask the alternative whether the alternative recognises that the conditions that exist in a given country affect how many refugees are seeking against a particular country. When I ask, it is because I have noted that Mrs Ulla Sandbæk of the Alternative has recently stated, and now I would like to quote: I simply did not take into account the fact that asylum seekers have mobile phones and there is a strong exchange of information when they are on their way up here. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the alternative recognises that conditions for asylum seekers affect how many people are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160804	Yes, it is clear that when you reduce the conditions for family reunification so that people cannot bring their family into protection, it has an impact on whether you want to be here. That is what we saw a month ago when people tried to get through Denmark to come to Sweden where they could have their family with them in protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160821	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160822	Well, thank you for that realization. The alternative is that Denmark should be the best country in the world for refugees, and I would really like to ask the rapporteur to describe how many more refugees the rapporteur thinks we should accept and what relaxations we might have to make in order to achieve a given objective that the alternative might have.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160847	Now I don't like to stand up here and correct people when they quote, but I almost have to follow Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. The alternative would like Denmark to be the best country for we can take more refugees than we do today. We did it back in the 1990s when there was a war in the Balkans, and so these are people who are today an integral part of our working life, of our family life, of our friends. So, of course, we can take more than 1,000 asylum seekers, as you are doing right now. We have to go in and take responsibility, because this problem is also part of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160923	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008160927	Thank you. I would like to sign that we have already reached an agreement with the Alternative at this stage on the housing job scheme, and we are very much looking forward to further negotiations. But now I rise to put a question to the Alternative's rapporteur, and that is about some of what some of my fellow Members have already mentioned, namely how this should be specifically financed. Because no matter how much it costs to get the working week down to 30 hours, what the rapporteur has said is also a certain recognition that it costs money. And if you recognise that it costs money, you have to be able to finance it. So would the rapporteur be kind enough to point out how to finance a reduction in the working week?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161008	Well, I also replied to it just now, but obviously not clearly enough, since there can be asked a whole three times about it, so now I reply again: of course it is not us in here who sits and legislates for a 30-hour week. We come up with this as a proposal because we think it is a very good idea. After all, it is the social partners who are negotiating this sort of thing. We have come up with some models that say: you can go in this direction because it would be wise. Perhaps it would be wise to begin translating pay increases into reductions in working hours, which many would like to see already. So it's very simple. That is something the parties are negotiating to where they say: can we go down in time over 10 years, just as we have done so many times before?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161048	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161049	But isn't it by the wrong choice that you've taken it up? Should it not have been for an election to a union, so that, when you went to negotiations with the unions, you had it with you? Because, as the rapporteur himself says, this is something that we must negotiate with them, so how will we influence the process? So a small addition to that: Today you can read that it is difficult to find truck drivers. It's hard to get any Danes who want to work as truck drivers. Does the rapporteur think that there is too little work in Denmark, in other words that there is a surplus of labour in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161126	When we make proposals, it's because we have a vision for this society. We have a vision of how it could be good to live together, and we are putting it forward as a political party. That's not all we have to do from in here. There is also something that may have to happen completely in the municipalities and where we should not touch it from in here at all. But, of course, we need to put forward a vision. Then the state is also a big employer. That is why we can put pressure on a finance minister who is negotiating state agreements and say: should we look at them in relation to working hours? So there's a lot of things we can do from in here to get to where we think it's a good idea to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161202	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen No, I haven't been under any pressure). It's right here. All right, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161204	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. It's a pleasure to have an old classmate on the platform too. I think the alternative's proposal on shorter working hours has been dealt with a little stepmotherly. Now we hear, for example. The Conservatives say that you just have to put the tax down, then people will work less. Now I was actually of the opinion that the entire tax policy of the Conservatives was based on the fact that when you put the tax down, we would all start working more, but leave it at that. What Kraka ignores in their excuses to me is that, in a number of cases over the last 100 years, we have reduced working hours simply because we are becoming more productive. When we do, we can of course choose whether that productivity should be used for higher wages, more consumption, or whether it should be translated into more leisure time with our families. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that this is the way the Alternative's thinking is going, and I would like to give Enhedslisten's warmest support for a move in this direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161317	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161318	Well, I can totally confirm that. Kraka said it as soon as they dropped the 270 billion. kr. the microphone had been turned off, or at least nobody was listening. It is precisely that it was only a clear spreadsheet about the economy, because yes, we are becoming more and more productive; technology is taking over and it will make us lose jobs, but it will also make us increasingly productive. How, then, do we spend the extra productivity: more money for more blind spending or more time with each other? And there we have a vision of a society where we have much better time for each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161352	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161354	[Sound emission]... we look forward to being two parties that can take up the debate here in the Folketing. After all, there are great visions about reducing general working hours. We have also done so in Denmark in the past that we have ensured, for example. leave rights for children's families during the period when you have young children. This is also a way of sharing the work, because it is ■ and I hope the rapporteur can confirm this grotesquely, that we are in a situation where many people are pushing their noses against the window to get into the labour market and get a seat while others are working themselves to death and cannot make family and working life hang together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161431	I can completely confirm, and that is precisely what is unfortunate right now, that we are seeing a labour market where people are becoming increasingly stressed. But we also see those outside the labour market becoming more and more stressed, especially now that we see some deterioration in their conditions, which, of course, is stressful in everyday life. So, yes, we are going to share the work much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161446	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161450	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur express the wish that the refugees who come to Denmark now should have the same fate as refugees from the former Yugoslavia. These refugees from the former Yugoslavia were supposed to follow the rapporteur's lead to a good integration, and so it was hoped that the present refugees would have the same fate. In other words, the alternative does not distinguish between immigrants and refugees, since we want them to become part of Denmark and not return to their homeland when there is peace, such as there. Is most of the former Yugoslavia now?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161529	Yeah, I'm really distinguishing between the two things. You shouldn't mix those two things up. But there is, of course, the fact that when you come to another country as maybe a 5-year-old, start going to school, have friends, go to education before there is peace and you can go home, it may well be that you are better integrated into the country to which you have moved than where you came from originally. And I actually believe that it can be an enrichment of Denmark that we also have some of the people in the future here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161556	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161559	Now the rapporteur said earlier that the alternative would make Denmark the best country for the world. Shouldn't Denmark also be a good country for those countries that are currently experiencing war and strife, thus ensuring that the citizens who have to seek temporary shelter in Denmark return and help build these countries up? If at any time we are to experience a situation in which there can also be progress in the countries that are currently war-torn, surely they should not simply be emptied of their best heads, because the alternative is that they should live in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161636	Now neither I nor the Alternative want to decide whether to stay in Denmark. I just notice that some people are becoming more integrated into this society than in another country where they may have lived 2-3 years of their lives. What we have just seen in the 1990s is that a lot of people have gone back. I have many friends who I got to know in Denmark in the 1990s who now live in Bosnia etc. But there are also some who have stayed here because they have a more natural connection with this, and I am actually pleased about that. This helps to enrich our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161707	Thank you. That was the last question in this round. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008161725	A lot of things have changed over the summer. The composition of parties has changed in this Chamber, but the biggest change has taken place outside, and it is the reality that is knocking on the door. The flow of refugees has increased throughout Europe, and suddenly they are at our borders asking for help. But at first it is not us politicians who open the door and welcome them. It has been encouraging to see the Danes open the door and their hearts when they were knocked on, and I also feel that many here acknowledge it. From a radical point of view, it is always a joy when people take responsibility not only for themselves, but also for others, it is about people, as we say, but this strong popular leadership during the refugee crisis commits: strong political leadership is needed. Neither ads in foreign newspapers nor the verbal migraine used by changing Leftmen, when you yell at everything from newly arrived refugees to the Danes and companies that take away, make it seem like leadership. The Prime Minister said that with the flow of refugees we have been overtaken by reality, but here he must speak for himself. Because in the Radical Left we have an election campaign or We have pointed out the need to cooperate and find pan-European solutions in the area of refugees, which is why it was quite appropriate that the Prime Minister should finally put himself on the right side of the line drawn by German Chancellor Merkel on the refugee issue. It was good that the commitment of 1,000 refugees was included in the EU agreement. It was a small step for humanity, but apparently a very, very big step for the Left, when fewer refugees have been promised and we should not discuss asylum policy in the European Union. I look forward to further discussions on Denmark's position when we need to find more lasting solutions and answers to what we do when the refugee crisis turns out to be more than of a fleeting nature. The only thing that does not work is to stand outside and the government has taken the first steps towards a common solution. I look forward to working together on the next and would also urge the government to seek in general its majority in the integration policy of parties that actually want successful integration quickly and better than today of the many Syrian refugees that have now arrived. The government began its work with a so-called cash check-up of the state's finances... there was not a penny left in the treasury... you had to understand... and that's such a ritual tribal dance for new governments. The fact that it was not the Minister of Finance who, wearing thrush skirts and castacles, let you and curses fall on the economy for which he has now been responsible, despite the fact that on all parameters it is in a better condition than the one he left behind. We do not need to take our word for that, of course, all observers agree on that. But it might be that such a checkup may not be such a crazy idea after all. For does government policy lead to what the Prime Minister so touchingly called human, economic, value and geographical balance? For us, as Radicals, the decisive measure is whether the policy is pointing forward and whether we are investing in the future and the living conditions of our children and grandchildren, and the government has, of course, from its very beginning, distributed mild gifts. But who really pays the bill? It could shed some light on a cashier's checkup, so let's take a look at it. After all, the money burned so much in the pocket that urgent legislation had to be made over the summer to get the first billion for us with house and gardens, and the Minister for Finance's little dance macabre in connection with the government's check-up a bit tragicically that the government financed its housing job scheme with money from the box that was thought to be empty. I think it's called overdraft or a quick loan to finance the election promises, so people like me can finance private expenses on the community's account, and even with the SF and the Alternative as guarantors. But who's gonna pay? The bill immediately passed on to the newly arrived refugees, who will have to cope with an SU-level benefit, however, without the possibility of supplementing the income as a student. So it's a deduction for clipping me and SU for a new arrival single refugee mother with three children. It is not just overdrafts of the state's balance, it is galloping deficits in the ordinary humanity account. It's not responsible, it's not balanced, it's just petty. After all, it was not better when the budget bill finally arrived, because here we really saw where the bill for the Left's electoral vows is parked. First, the Prime Minister of New York struck with the hammer at the UN General Assembly when the countries of the world adopted 17 sustainable development goals, and then he went home to Denmark and swung the axe over Danish development aid, which gets a historic reduction of 2.3 billion. kr. It is at the best and cheapest at home, and it is at least an expression of a somewhat limited sense of geographical balance. And there are several Bones in the bag: Massive savings on education and research. We understand from the new Minister for Research that colleges and research institutions have become corn fat under the former government. And we break down and confess: for us it was actually crucial to invest in research and education; we saw it as an investment in the future when we spent more money every year. We thought we shared a common heritage with the Left when it was about education and education as something that is inherited from generation to generation, and we thought we agreed that in a country like Denmark, research and development is the way to innovation and growth. So the cashier's checkout is knocking out both humanly and financially when we're sawing in the branch we're sitting on. And geographically it is also wrong because it particularly affects the small institutions in the outskirtsdanmark when you cut on education. Then there is the green area, and there I will start with a quote: I already want to put points of reference for the government's work: It is the government's goal that in 2050 Denmark is independent of oil, gas and coal. ▪ The quote comes from the Prime Minister, and I recognise that we have been over in the pile of old annexes, because it is from 2010, from the opening speech 5 years ago. But what has happened in the meantime? Why has the Prime Minister lost his green vision and ambition? On the radical side, we have put forward a climate plan showing how more than halving CO2 can be achieved by 2030 and, no, it does not have to be at the expense of growth and jobs; on the contrary, it is not just something I say, because that is what our Prime Minister said, even while he was in opposition. For then, when the President of the Left was appointed chairman of the Global Green Growth Institute by the SR government, he took it very seriously, as you know. He travelled around the world, he appeared fresh and well-rested and always with the same message to all world leaders: Green conversion and growth go hand in hand, you know, global green growth. I understand that it can be too much with all that traveling, and that it might have been trouble at the end, but one thing is to change the flight seat with the office chair in Prince Jørgens Gård, something else is to change your attitude. Because what's happened? Where were the positions, the first-class views that the Left President toured with, when the Prime Minister was finally given the right to serve and the opportunity to put action behind the words? The political check-up of the government's policy on the future environment and climate is depressing and one can only encourage the Prime Minister to find his way back to himself, to the positions he held last time he was Prime Minister, to the positions he held when he was in opposition and gave it as President of the GGGI. But if nothing else should the government begin by respecting the fact that, although it is a minority government, there is no reason to take pride in being a minority. We are proud of the Climate Act and the target of 40%. Less CO2 For the Radical Left, the economy is important; I think most people are aware of that. Just a few years ago we had an economy that roared out there and the textbooks had to be rewritten. And suddenly the crisis was knocking out in real life. There should have been a political response to the crisis at that time; everyone is well aware of that today. When the government finds that there is no money available, the solution is to cut down on education, on climate and on aid to the most vulnerable, for example. Suicide at risk. This was not the case with us in government. The solution is to get those who can to work. A healthy principle is that more than half the population is always at work. After all, we have an economic 2025 plan from the left to the right it was promised in the election campaign, but it is waiting for it. In the government programme, however, this suggests much lower ambitions than those of the SR government, and it is also small in what we have seen of concrete initiatives. On the other hand, the Left begins its reform work in the wrong place: the poor and the vulnerable. After abolishing the poverty limit introduced by the SR, the dependency base of the most vulnerable and vulnerable people in society is being set aside. The ceiling on cash benefits makes a very limited contribution to the economic balance; a few hundred out of the many thousands of cash benefits are expected to be employed. But the human balance is totally unbalanced for those affected: there are fewer opportunities for those who already have the least. Let it just be said straight away: for the Radical Left, it is important that it pays to work and we want more from cash aid to employment, but we do not believe in unilateral cuts in aid to the poorest. But if nothing else, the Prime Minister must at least keep his promise to Denmark's children, namely that whatever policy is being pursued, it should not lead to more poor children. After all, this is not solved by quitting measuring whether you have more poor children; it is solved by keeping your promises. In the election campaign it was said that it was the Left for the future, and in the government base it is probably almost the same. Now the election campaign and the formation of government are past, but the future is still ahead of us. And the political check-up on the policy of the Left Government shows that neither in terms of economic, value, geographical or human balance does the government have the answers to tomorrow's challenges. If the government's blind eye is placed here for the green transition, then the bill is towered even higher. So, as a call here at the end on behalf of future generations, we appeal to greater ambition. On the radical side, cooperation will not be lacking if it is a policy for our children and grandchildren rather than just more for us who have. Therefore, in other words, dear Leftmen, could you pull yourselves together for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008162758	Thank you. There are a number of people who want to ask questions to the radical rapporteur. And the first in line is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008162806	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I have a question about border controls. Because when border controls were dropped at the Danish border in 2001, it was because there were some external borders in the Schengen area of the European Union and they were safe. Then we can see that they are not. A country such as Hungary is trying to enforce border controls, and I have seen this having led to great criticism, among other things. from radical people that this is not the way to do it. What I think has been striking in relation to this whole debate is that it is easy to criticise a country like Hungary for what they are doing, but that it is very rare that we hear about how it should be done, in other words how to secure the external borders of the European Union, which was the prerequisite for banning border controls at Denmark's borders. So my question to Mr. Morten Østergaard is: How does the Radical Left envisage having border controls at external borders in practice? If it is not Hungary's model, what is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008162911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008162913	After all, we need to create a comprehensive asylum system that works. We would not have had this discussion if a Dublin registration had continued to work. Because then people would be registered, and they would be. After all, we did not have a discussion of this caliber until it was stopped in those parts of the European Union that are closest to where the flows of refugees cross the external borders. And the prerequisite for that is, of course, the willingness to distribute the task of integrating the refugees among the countries. So our clear point of view is what the Commission has also proposed: reception centres that ensure dignified conditions for the refugees who come in and joint management of the countries between the task of distributing them afterwards. Because then there is no reason to cross borders when what works is that you go into the reception centre, and if you can get asylum, then you will be distributed to the countries that have agreed it between you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163005	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163008	I simply do not understand that, that is, something with joint reception centres, and if you distribute, you do not need border controls. If only everyone can get in, you don't need border controls. However, the condition that Schengen was banned in 2001 for Denmark to have border controls was that there was border control at the external borders. How can Mr. Morten Østergaard is now telling the Danish people that we do not need external borders at all, because you have reception centres, where people can enter, and there they get a stamp, and then they are distributed out into Europe? Well, it may be, it was poorly formulated. I should also like to ask: is it not clear that the prerequisite for the abolition of Danish border controls was that there was border controls at the external borders? And if you stand by that, how will you enforce that border control?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163056	I'm sure I didn't get it. I thought for a moment that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was interested in the many refugees. It is quite obvious that, of course, we have an obligation to carry out border controls at our external borders. But the reason why we are discussing it now is that it has collapsed because of the great flows of human beings. And that is why in the EU countries there is increasingly recognition of the fact that there is no Danish solution such as the Danish Prime Minister. Danish border control; there is only a European solution. And if we are to get the external borders under control, it requires those countries that are not entirely in line to know that they are not alone when we are in an extraordinary situation that we are in now. That was my point, but of course there must be border controls at the external borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163141	Thank you. The next question in the line is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163145	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I am glad to note that the Enhedslisten and Radicals are on the same team when we reject the new government's proposals for a lower level of integration and cuts in cash aid, and because we have the same in mind, that is, that poverty does not help people to get a job or solve social problems by the way; I think we even agree that the focus should be on those children who, at least, are not responsible for anything. I would like to hear how it can then be that Radicals could not extend, what can be said, the understanding of the large group of people who were affected by the cash aid reform that Radicals were involved in. There was a rise in poverty and an increase in inequality, while Radicals were in government. the fact that youth homelessness increased explosively. A great many organisations have pointed out that the cash aid reform that Radicals was behind helped to make the problems explode. Could solidarity be extended to realise that it was perhaps a wrong manoeuvre at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163256	There has been no more poverty under the previous government. The latest and, unfortunately, the latest report on poverty can make sure of this. So you can be comfortable with that. However, on the issue of the reform of cash benefits, the crucial difference is that what we were aiming for was that young people who are ready or able to take an education are not better placed in the cash assistance system than the young people who have started an education and are at the SU. Everyone can choose to start an education if they have the prerequisites for it. That's what the cash benefits reform was all about. That is what actually worked, understood in the sense that a great many young people have now started an education and are therefore no longer on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163340	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163343	I am well aware that the argument on paper is that it is said that it is they who are ready for training that have to be printed on the wallet. There is, I suppose, some kind of premise that it is because they are lazy that they have not started an education or got a job, because they could just do so. I am not buying it, and one must also say that reality has turned out to be someone else. There are numerous organisations working with young people at risk who say that they end up in this very low youth benefit and that this is one of the reasons why they end up in youth homelessness. The rents are too expensive, and they can't get out of it again. Then we start a social deroute, and then we lose really the conditions for getting a job and a decent life.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163435	The prerequisite for being affected by the new system of young people's benefits for the older ones is, of course, that they are ready for training. This means that you can choose to take an education. That is why there is a difference in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits, because cash benefits families cannot just decide not to have so many children or choose a job on or off. However, young people who are ready for training can choose to take an education, and Mrs Pernille Skipper may be surprised that they do, but in fact they do, a great many, and so it can be said that we are pleased with both the change we made the first time, that is, in the 1990s, when we introduced the young benefit, and also now for the latest variant, because both have proved to be good at combating youth unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163521	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163524	Thank you. There were parts of Mr. Morten Østergaard's speech, I agreed with more than others, for example. that the Prime Minister shows strong popular leadership. I agree with that. On the other hand, Mr. Morten Østergaard, that there is no radical slinging course. That is what is called a contradication in terms in English. But the Radicals were very clear before the elections: the conditions for asylum seekers do not matter for the influx to Denmark. In order to confirm this lack of radical slinging course: do you still mean it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163603	Yes, well, as I said in my speech, the reason why there are more refugees in Denmark now than there have been for many years is that there are more refugees in the world. But what we saw, and which I think many people have responded to, was that the view of people who in no way measure up to what would meet them if they were refugees in Denmark, they would have come into existence for some reason. It may be that government ads had had an effect, but there are probably other elements in it too. But when you're on the run from the Danish police, you don't have to, I hope we agree on that, and it's probably not a success when people think they need to flee the Danish police. If, as a Syrian refugee, you think you can't have family reunification, then it's not right either. Virtually anyone can, at least if they come directly from Syria. So what we experienced, I think, was the result of many of one way or another having got a wrong understanding of what the conditions are in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163659	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163701	Yes, but then it means something, whether it is an erroneous idea or a correct one. So this whole thing about the terms or perception of the terms doesn't matter is wrong, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163717	Yes, we had the discussion many times in the election campaign. It is nothing more than a good week's time since we were out at DI's annual meeting, when the Prime Minister said: there will be the refugees coming. What we were discussing at the time, and which was also noted in studies of refugees living in it, was that what we are seeking first and foremost is peace and security. And in relation to those who were on the wild run from the Danish police, I do not know whether Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and the Left think that this is a great success. I have not been able to get an answer from the Minister for Integration. Is it a success that people flee across the fields with their children over their shoulders because they are afraid of Danish police? I think it is a pity if that image has been created, and I think that advertising should be included in order to correct it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163755	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163759	Thank you. I heard you, sir. Morten Østergaard's speech the words successful integration • I think that was said at some point. We can only agree with that, but does the rapporteur not agree with me that there is also a limit to how many we can integrate into Denmark, how large the influx can be? In other words, what we see with ghetto areas where there is social control and which form parallel societies is an example of the failure of integration. So somewhere there must be a limit to, also according to the Radical Left, how many you think can come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163839	There is no doubt that integration in Denmark is far from good enough. This applies both to those who have been here for a long time • immigrants who are outside the labour market and that is the case, and I agree with what the Prime Minister said on Tuesday with the results of the immediate integration effort. What I am delighted about, and as I also noted in my rapporteur's speech here today, is that where the Left and possibly the Conservatives stood quite a short time ago, the view was that the Syrians who had come here would not be integrated. Look, I just don't think that's a good solution. Nor do I think it is a good solution to cut their benefits so that a single mother with three children who have just come here will have to cope with the equivalent of an SU. What I think works is if integration efforts are moved into the labour market. That is also what the SR government played out with, and we hope that the new government will be inspired by it. At least we're happy to contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163934	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008163935	But I guess that doesn't change the fact that there's still a limit to how many people we can integrate into Danish society. In other words, when I hear the Radical Left, they often talk about the fact that the rest of us are too tough, that we set up too tough rules and that we need to have more open arms. But Mr. Morten Østergaard is not that there is a limit to how much we can bear as a society before the cohesion that we have in society is lost? Isn't there a limit to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164004	I recognise that when refugees come here in the number we see in these years, it puts pressure on the integration process. Then it creates capacity problems in the municipalities with accommodation for integration. Municipalities who have been used to having perhaps a dozen refugees must now put in place strategies to deal with it three- or four-fold. I fully acknowledge that. But what I do not recognise is that the solution should then be to say that then we in Denmark must introduce border controls, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will, or otherwise, try to avoid us the responsibility we have together. And that is because, and I welcome it, I agree with the Prime Minister that there is no Danish solution to dealing with the refugee crisis; there is only one European one.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164045	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164049	Thank you. I would really like to return to the question that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen said earlier that conditions mean something to the flow of refugees. I would like to ask the rapporteur to explain himself again. On the one hand, the rapporteur says in his speech that more refugees in the world mean more refugees in Denmark; that is understandable. Where it is not quite clear what the Radicals think is, when Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, on the other hand, says to Jyllands-Posten, that rumors have just the effect of fewer asylum seekers. Can the rapporteur not here explain to us what is really meant in the Radical Left? Do the terms mean yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164134	As we talked about and discussed during the election campaign, it is clear that part of the attraction of countries like Denmark is that there is peace, that there is stability, that there is security and that it is a welfare society, and of course it is preferable to just being in a country where none of these things are true. I think everyone knows that, and so have refugees. What we have been discussing is whether it matters how many refugees are coming to Denmark, how much integration benefits are being introduced, when we are in a situation where there are historically many refugees coming to Europe. There is the answer on our part: No, it probably does not, because what is the attraction is not to come up here and get a check, but to get to a place where you can get a job, where your children can get an education and where you can live in peace, security and security with your family.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164218	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164219	Should I take this as an indication that conditions do not matter to the influx?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164227	We must take it as an expression of what we are seeing at the moment, that the amount of the integration allowance is not, therefore, a determining factor in how many refugees are coming. But, of course, it is more attractive to come to a legal society, a welfare society than to societies that are not. So in this way the general conditions mean something, but what is crucial for the arrival of many refugees in Denmark is that there are many refugees in the world. If you look at the statistics, you'll see that it's always been that way. It may be that there are small ripples on the surface, but overall it is the case that when more refugees come to Europe, more will come to Denmark. I do not think Mrs Jane Heitmann or I can change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164304	Thank you. Next in line is Mr. Jacob Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164309	Pull yourselves together! I think that is how the rapporteur's call to the Left and the government sounded. I think that the speech was marked by such a classic speech from an old party, which may be a little irritated and a little bitter about the result of the election that was achieved. And if I compare with the alternative, which comes as a new party and a fresh breath of vision, you can then think what you want about the seriousness of the visions, then there was a little more schwung and graciousness about it. Perhaps that was also what the Danes said in the election... humility may never have been the trademark of the Radicals. When I ask about what the rapporteur also emphasised, namely the economy, which is important for the Radicals, it is because I could understand that more money needs to be spent on foreign aid; more immigrants are going to go to the country; I have also read that there must be tax-free electric cars; more needs to be spent on transfer income; the climate must have a boost; and education and research must have something. There's more to it all, and I don't know if I've forgotten anything I've probably forgotten. I do not think there were so many sources of funding in the rapporteur's speech. Could the rapporteur perhaps clarify a little where the money should come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164416	There was, of course, very precisely the proposal that is also contained in the 2025 plan that we as a party have put forward, namely that instead of choosing the way of austerity, we are choosing the way of reform. After all, a proposal has been presented by the government which, in relation to the area of cash aid, can contribute a total of 650 people to employment. Faced with it is that, while we were in government, we made reforms which, by 2020, will contribute more than 28,000 people to employment and, as old financial rapporteur, Mr. Jacob Jensen, of course, what it means for the economy and for the opportunities to invest. What is unfortunate about what the government is putting forward is that it is extremely short-sighted, and that is why I am sorry if it sounds bitter; it is now actually meant to be genuinely sincere that we are worried about cutting down on the things that Denmark will have to live on in the future because it does not have the courage to make the reforms. That is why we prefer reforms rather than cutting down on education and research and green conversion, because otherwise you just push the bill in front of you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164522	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164523	See, it was much better and much more constructive: we want to make reforms, says the rapporteur. Fine. So will the government and the Left. Could the radical rapporteur just say a few things about what reforms we would like to vote on, for example? the unemployment benefit area or tax area or other relevant areas? Because then we could take it from there instead of being a little upset about the election result, which may not have been as good as it might have been.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164550	Now I think it sounds like it's sir. Jacob Jensen, who has been a little steady on the cuffs about getting a little resistance here in an opening debate, and I am sorry about that. If you want to be ironed with your hair, we can go to the corridors afterwards and share a Kleenex. But what is the point here is that the policy of the Left, as it has been put forward, is not reform. We could hear from the political rapporteur of the Left that it was not possible to explain what the contribution from the Finance Act is. A proposal is being put forward in the field of cash assistance, which will contribute 650 people. It is not a reformed economy. It is a reduction policy that is being put forward, and it could be done if it were not because the things you choose to cut back on are precisely those on which we have to live in the future. This is extremely short-sighted, and therefore we are critical of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164638	Then it's mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164640	I mean, we heard Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard said during the election campaign: we know that keeping people in poverty does not lead to anything. Now it was refugees who were talked about here, people who need help. We agree that those people need help, but there are also some other people who need help, and that is among other things. Some of the reformers who have been affected by some of the many reforms that the Radical Left has also helped to adopt. I can, for example. mention the early retirement pension reform, in which we have seen figures from mid-September which show that almost no one is going to work because of the high level of advertising of resources. After all, this is a reform which means that we are keeping people in poverty and that we are not giving them the opportunity to move forward. We keep them in eternal work tests and in financial problems. Shouldn't we try to do something for the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164743	In this context, I do not make such a hard distinction between Danes and people who are not Danes. People need the same treatment, no matter who they are. But the point of the early retirement reform is very clear. It is to avoid people getting into early retirement. I don't know how sir. Rune Lund and Enhedslisten have it, but I do not think it is good that in the late 20s a mentally ill person is parked on permanent public support, from which we well know that it is very rare for anyone to come back, because the help ends and the interest of society goes away. That is what is meant by the processes of resources, and then we have to look at the time. They are made so that they can last up to five years, which is why it may be a little early to judge them, but at least people are publicly supported while they are on them. When we turn to this strategy of keeping people in poverty, it is because we are hitting the poorest families in Denmark with a cash aid ceiling or the newly arrived refugees with an integration benefit. Because what we think is important is that we look at where people actually have economic incentives, such as the United Kingdom. young people who can choose to go into education.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164846	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164847	However, the fact is that even before the early retirement reform was adopted it was impossible to go on early retirement unless there was no work capacity left. Now that we are in a situation where we see increased poverty, where we see that people are being maintained in poverty and that they are being maintained in eternal labour tests, which do not lead anywhere, was it not time to look at the reform so that the poor Danes who already live here do not get into eternal labour tests, are not being maintained in poverty? I very much agree with the rapporteur that there should be no distinction between foreigners and Danes. I just think that is why my question is that this is not always how the Radical Left acts when we talk about these benefits and all the people who have been affected by all the reforms that the Radical Left has also helped to adopt.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008164943	I believe that we have different success criteria, because for us it is a success criterion that as many people as possible work. What we know is that people go to early retirement first, very few ever return to the labour market, and that is why we think that it is not the happiness of someone who may have had a difficult illness, but at a young age, just to go on early retirement. It is better that there is a sequence of resources if it works in the spirit in which it is intended. If you don't do that, you have to work with it and make sure it gets to it. But our objective is therefore different from that of Enhedslisten and Mr. Rune Lunds, because we do not want early retirement to be easy and as many people as possible to end up there. In other words, we want to make an effort so that the lowest possible rate of early retirement can be used to help people avoid early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165027	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165031	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that border controls must be a European matter now that the rapporteur does not want border controls at the Danish borders. However, the rapporteur obviously does not want border controls like that in Hungary. So I would like to know how the rapporteur sees border controls at the external borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165054	Well, we see border controls like the one that was before things collapsed. We have, on the one hand, the countries concerned, we have the European Union's border agency, Frontex, and, on the other hand, we have supported the fact that, in this situation, the government has contributed further to this. What we do not like to see is when a country like Hungary shoots tear gas into the crowds of refugees that is not a good way to solve it or when planning to build fences along the borders of other EU countries. What we need are common solutions and arrangements, and what we need to do to ensure that conditions are fixed is reception centres and a joint and solidarity sharing of refugees. Then I think we can come back to the situation that existed before the refugee crisis, where registration broke down and we saw this chaos at the external borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165142	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165144	I have to say that I think this is a rather poor answer from the rapporteur, because I really do not get an answer. In other words, there is massive pressure on Europe's borders, as it is at the moment, and then there is just an answer that we could return to the way it was before, that is, that we do not really want to take action and that we really just have to create some reception centres and distribute people across Europe. Is that really what the rapporteur wants, in other words, just free immigration into Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165212	No, what I want, and I think that maybe, in fact, we're agreed on, aren't we fixed conditions at the external borders? But what I just do not believe in is that tear gas and fences between EU countries solve the problem we are facing now. Because as you've seen, the crowds continue to rush and find new holes in the fence. After all, there is control at the EU's external borders, so one can almost say in relation to the Danish People's Party that this is an illustration of the fact that border controls do not in themselves solve the problem. But no, there is no possibility of having free immigration into Europe. There are far too many people who would go to Europe, but we must protect the refugees who are coming. We have a duty to do this, and we must do it better than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165249	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165252	Thank you very much. The rapporteur says that integration benefits are not crucial to how many people seek asylum in Denmark. What, then, does the rapporteur think about the repeated stories that have been in the Danish media about Syrian refugees who have said that they would have wished that they had not applied for asylum in Denmark now that integration benefits are being reduced, while others say: I choose not to seek asylum in Denmark, I choose to go through precisely because there is a lower integration benefit in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165321	Yes, we must exchange newspaper clips on that, because what I have referred to sometimes is one of them. people who are on the run from the police or have misconceptions as to what conditions there are. And it may be that some people have wanted to promote such erroneous ideas. I guess there are also smugglers who have an interest in selling their services. I myself took part in an interview with a Norwegian journalist who had interviewed people smugglers at Copenhagen Central Station, which the police might be more interested in. So what's our point and it's not so hard to understand is that when there are more refugees in Europe, more will come to Denmark. This has been the case throughout history, and that relationship does not alter the benefits of integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165400	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165402	I think it is interesting to see that since we introduced or at least put forward legislative proposals on the integration benefit, the number of asylum seekers in Denmark has been lower for three consecutive months now than it was at the same time last year, despite the fact that more refugees have arrived in Europe. I am not saying that this is a final conclusion, but I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about the last three months.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165426	Yes, I've been trying to see if this is something that the government believes in is an expression of a permanent state. At least that is not the case with the Minister for Finance, because we are budgeting for 15 000 refugees every year in the years to come. This is certainly not something that has really been achieved by the section of the Left which today holds the government benches. So until it does, I do not think the rapporteur should count on us either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165449	Thank you. Next in line is Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165455	Thank you. The Radical Left and the Alternative have many interests in common. One of them is, of course, the transition to a circular economy, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's thoughts on working further towards more recycling, less incineration of waste and the other elements of the circular economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165517	It was, in fact, an integral part of the plan I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. It should help to bring us more than halfway towards the fossil-free society by 2030. And part of that is that we need much more recycling. Our ambition is, of course, that we do not have waste in incineration at all, and that is of course a strong ambition, but it will probably require, in the first place, as a very specific initiative, that we agree to have a common system to deal with waste recycling, so that it is not each municipality alone that has large investments in waste incineration. So that is at least a concrete element, but we have presented an overall plan in that area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165554	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165556	That sounds really interesting. But how about the chemicals, I also think, because it is an important part of the fact that we can recycle our materials, in other words that we can also have a broad chemical effort where we are trying to get more and more chemicals out of our products?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165613	Agreed. This is a very important area. One of the things that is unfortunately being cut off with the government's financial bill is, after all, some of the money that is actually available to invest in developing new products and promoting technologies, so that you are free from using chemicals in products in the way you are doing today. Finally, if we are to take a specific area: I myself visited a site of demolition in the election campaign. There are enormous potentials if we are better able to handle our construction waste in a proper way, that is to say, get the chemicals and other polluting sources out of it, and then in turn can use all the construction waste again instead of just depositing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165655	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165700	Thank you for the floor. Sir. Morten Østergaard pointed to a number of areas where he wanted more money to be spent, and he also brought a number of small sticks to the Prime Minister. The rapporteur did not mention the Danish defence, and I would like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that Danish defence capacity is today in a position that is in line with the rising challenges that we must say we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165728	It is true that I did not mention that, because in the Radical Left we are, of course, eager to get started with the discussions on the defence reconciliation of the future, but we do not imagine that this is something we need to spend more money on. This does not mean that we cannot increase capacity, because it is all about how we organise the defence, and that is where we took a very good step at the last defence settlement. However, we now believe that there are places where defence can be further modernised and thus free up resources for a greater capacity.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165757	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165759	Does the rapporteur not recognise that there has been a development in international policy, so that the threat situation has deteriorated since we made the last defence settlement? It requires everything else equal that the Danish defence is in a better condition than what is the case today, where among other things. I'm afraid a lot of officers are leaving the defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165822	I certainly think it should be looked at with the greatest seriousness at the fact that the defence workers, those we send out to different hotspots in the world, are saddened by the conditions under which they work. I think that should certainly be taken into account in future negotiations on a defence settlement. But that does not lead us to think that, overall, more money should be spent on defence. After all, there was a very broad consensus in the Folketing when we made the last defence settlement, because there was agreement that we could modernise the defence. And I actually think we could, and we have even been able to play a very active role around the world along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165858	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008165902	Thank you. When I hear the rapporteur trying to answer the questions my party is asking about border controls, I feel like I'm going to my childhood with the song "Few Shame.... no, we can't do that. So now I want to ask, just as it is done in the song: What then? because the rapporteur says that there must be orderly conditions. The rapporteur lists a lot of things that you cannot do, but what can you do? Now I understand that there must not be fences between EU countries, but must you make fences against countries that are not part of the European Union? Do you have to make a permanent passport check and stop all those who are trying to cross the border? If the rapporteur does not want the Danes to have border controls at our own borders, but believes that it should be dealt with outside the country's borders, we would like to know what control the Danes can expect to be carried out at their external border.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008170001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008170003	Perhaps I can understand that the Danish People's Party is trying to exploit the situation now at the external borders as an argument in the constant struggle to obtain border controls in Denmark. I actually understand that. But when I keep referring to the situation before the refugee crisis, it is because there is control at the external borders. There is not, as the honourable Member asked before, free immigration into the European Union, and it is true, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said earlier that the conditions for the whole Schengen Agreement are, of course, that checks are being carried out at the external borders. So we have nothing against external border controls, but what I am just saying is that the solution to the current crisis is not to tighten controls. The solution is to get organized relationships, so we see again people coming along the highways instead of across the field and through the forest and bush.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008170053	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008170055	If you are to have external border controls, it must also be a border control that works in exceptional situations and not only works on a daily basis. An effective border control is certainly characterised by the fact that it always works and not only works occasionally. So I will try again with reference to the song of children: what must be done at the external borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008170122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008170123	The reason why we are in this situation is that the European asylum system has collapsed, and that is why there is no longer the control that was required. Well, that's my point. If you want to go back in a situation where it is, it does not just require that you do things at the external borders. We have supported the fact that the government has given more money to Frontex or declared itself ready to do so. It also requires that it works further inside Europe, because if those countries cannot rely on the fact that when there are exceptional situations like the one that is now, we share the task of integrating the refugees, then every time we get into that situation, we will see that border controls, no matter how finely they may be, will be difficult to deal with, and we will have chaos like what we are seeing now. So the arranged relationship doesn't just require some of the countries and things on the border, it takes some of us all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008170213	There are no more who want short comments in this round. That is why we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, on behalf of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008170233	We have a new government in Denmark and it can be felt. We have a government that would rather wind up than develop; a government that breaks down instead of building; which excludes instead of including. In short, it is a government with no ambition on behalf of future generations. And it is at a time when both Denmark and the rest of the world need ambition if we are to solve the many major challenges we face. We are currently witnessing a global refugee disaster. Millions of people around the world have fled, forced to flee from bloody wars, hunger, and the fury of nature. They urgently need protection and basic relief so that their situation can be stabilised. I believe that the harsh reality became clear to everyone when the front pages of all the newspapers showed pictures of drowned refugees in the Mediterranean, people who, with their lives in action, flee war, torture and rape, from Syria, where the Islamic State is ravaged, and from Northern Iraq, where Danish aircraft have helped to create safe areas through our air support for example. The Kurds. The SF has supported this when the Iraqi Government asked for help to protect the people from the abuse of IS. But the war is still raging, and the problem is far from being solved. The refugee crisis is violent and, unfortunately, it can get much worse. Poor countries tend to function so badly that political persecution and civil wars are the consequence, and global warming will lead to millions being driven out. Then it is no longer a question of whether Denmark should take 1,000 or 3 000 refugees in solidarity with the rest of the European Union. Then we are talking about much higher figures and we will need pan-European binding solutions. The fight against poverty and the fight against global warming are also a fight for fewer refugees in the future. The government doesn't have that perspective at all. Maybe it can't even think that far. Instead, it is concerned with putting a negative advertisement for Denmark in foreign newspapers to scare the refugees away. I am so incredibly glad that it is not the whole picture of Denmark in the world. I am proud of the Danish police and their handling of the specific situation. It was beautiful when the picture of a Danish cop went around the world, and it was the best anti-refugee ad for the government and a fantastic picture of how decent and friendly the Danes basically are. But the worst part isn't the unsaved ads. Worse, the government is cutting development aid as low as the minimum UN level, 0.7%, and there is not even added to global climate action. That is worrying, because the agreement was ready in Copenhagen and the agreement was concluded by the current Prime Minister, who said, and I quote: "It is important for me personally to subline, that the financing of a new climate agreement must not undermine efforts to reduce poverty...'. Those were the words used by the Prime Minister in November 2009, and the Prime Minister likes to claim that he keeps his promises. Apparently, that's not true anymore. At least here we have a clear breach of promise. We are also in the midst of a climate crisis and we have an obligation to our children and grandchildren. It has to be solved. The temperature on the ground is rising, and with the commitments given now from the countries of the world, the increase in the earth's average temperature will not be able to stay below the 2 degrees, and certainly not below the 11⁄2 degree required if the risk is to be seriously minimised. What does that really mean about the grades? Well, the ocean will rise 1-2 m in this century, for glaciers and the ice sheet will melt. Coral reefs die in the sea because the water gets too hot, and that is the first link in the food chain for a lot of animals and ultimately for us. Many of the known crops we know today cannot be grown in warmer weather. In Denmark we will experience more unsteady weather, more storms and more water in the basement. In southern Europe, heat will become more intense, and some islands of the world will no longer be found on the map of the world. So it was not a joke that the Maldives held a government meeting under water. Their challenge is real. That is why the Paris climate summit in December is so crucial. It is a meeting where a legally binding agreement with clear climate targets for all the countries in the world must succeed. At the moment, it is the United States that is pushing for an ambitious agreement. The European Union has agreed a firm objective, but has difficulty in delivering the climate aid that is so crucial to delivering an agreement that the developing countries too can support. At the Copenhagen climate summit, the countries committed themselves to a climate contribution of 100 billion. Dollars by 2020. That objective is far from being within reach and some countries are now running from their commitments, including the host of the Copenhagen climate summit, namely the Prime Minister. The world needs countries like Denmark that take the lead, and that is why the signal is so disastrous. The government is running in the opposite direction. It settles instead of developing. If it is up to the government, we should no longer reduce our CO2 by 2020, even if it would be a gain for society, and even if green industrial companies are some of those that create exports and jobs by thousands. It is a success that we must develop, and it is simply incredible that the government is so industrially hostile. Denmark has not become a rich country because we have isolated ourselves. The Danish welfare society is the prescription for the Danish success. Women are on the labour market, all children are being taught, and we have a basic security in our society. Crime is low, and it's no coincidence. It is because of clear political choices that we have developed a model in which we can safely deliver our children in good day care institutions and schools, and that it is not only the few children who have the opportunity to fulfill dreams and ambitions. It's by far most kids, but it's got to be all kids. It requires resources, it requires educators and educational staff in our crèches and kindergartens, and it requires skilled school teachers with time for preparation and time for the individual learner also those students who require additional effort. Because the child must be at the centre, and we must ensure that all talents come into play. The government seems to stand by and what is worse: it cuts down on the municipalities at a time when we are getting more elderly people and the costs are therefore increasing. What part of the core welfare must the municipalities spare? We don't know yet. It can get older, it can become children, and it can become primary school, and most likely it will be a bit of everything. I do not understand how a large majority in the Danish Parliament from the Danish People's Party to the Social Democrats could approve the reduction agreement that the government entered into with the municipalities this summer. After all, it had real implications for the welfare of the municipalities. Why was it said, for example? Yes to an agreement that means less home help or less adults in the day institutions? And that's just the beginning. Next year, the government is threatening the municipalities with even greater reduction demands. Worse still is the government's plans for the education system, and I could really continue to list it. Worst I think it is when we look at how many children will grow up in poverty in the future. The previous government brought the figure down. That number will rise again and lead to a childhood without participation in the children's birthdays of comrades, because it is embarrassing to come without a gift, a childhood where Christmas Eve is only a success with the help of the Salvation Army or the local priest. I remember what it meant in my family when the priest came by with the Christmas box. It made Christmas a little more fun. But that is not what is meant by a welfare society. Unfortunately, many experience a childhood where they cannot have a bike, go to football or many of the other leisure activities that seem quite natural to all of us. There's no advice. And now the government's cash benefits will starve the families further. It's gonna have consequences. I have now heard many bourgeois politicians rage and say: 'Well, then people must pull themselves together.' Oh, my God! We are talking about families where one or both parents are ill or have lost their jobs during the crisis. And after an abbreviated benefit period made by the very same bourgeois politicians, the modesty is now: We tighten further. Sad and disastrous for those families, not least the children. Is there any possibility at Christiansborg in the future, now that I have so much reproved the government? Yes, and I would say clearly to the government that if there are opportunities at Christiansborg to move the policy in the right direction, then we are ready in SF. We did so when the green housing job scheme came on the table and secured green initiatives in our private homes. It was the same when we did the solar system. Now we've just done it in relation to insulation, changing windows and improvements to the housing. We can do that again. There are no seats or votes for Christiansborg that are too fine for us. And we know that on October 19th, the unemployment benefit commission is barring, so just to make it clear: for SF, the best solution is to create jobs for the unemployed. We are also concerned about safety and the safety net, which is why we want a longer period of time and much better opportunities for the recovery of benefit rights. This cannot be done without adding more money to the benefit system, so thank you to S for reporting today. Otherwise, it will be the unemployed who will have to pay for a change in the benefit system, and it is like feeding the dog with their own tail. Let us now have a durable and strong solution. This can only be done by a broad majority in the Folketing. This will create security in the labour market and provide a solution that will make it easier to regain the right to benefit; a solution where you are rewarded for taking small jobs along the way; a solution where you feel the safety net when you become unemployed. The 60 000 who have lost their entitlement to unemployment benefit since V, K, DF and Radical Left made the unemployment benefit reform in 2010 have felt the obvious consequences. Let us now have a much better reform. We are also ready to take advantage of the majority together with the Conservatives for the climate target of 40%, and we intend to hold the government to the Train Fund DK, there should be no doubt about that. There is still a majority behind the settlement in the Folketing. So we are ready for negotiations if it makes Denmark better, and we are also ready to shout if it goes in the wrong direction. There's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171321	Thank you. There are seven who wish to make brief comments, and the first is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171328	Thank you for that and thank you very much to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. I certainly also sign for the housing job scheme and SF's involvement in it. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr expresses a very great concern for the next generation, for our children, and that is a concern that we all share in here. In other words, there is almost no limit to how much money SF will set aside for more educators etc. After all, two billion people went to the polls. kr. to 5,000 more adults in the day institutions. How is it then that during the period when the SF sat in government or was the support party for the Social Democratic and Radical Government, the number of educators fell by 3,000? Why didn't you do something about it when you had the right to serve?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171424	While SF was in government, we secured in the Finance Act 2012 500 million. kr. more annually to teaching staff in the day institutions. And again in 2015, when we were the support party for the SR government, we secured 250 million. kr. more a year for teaching staff. So the SF has, in effect, contributed to the delivery of 750 million. kr. more to educational staff out in our day care institutions. At the same time, this has happened at a time when the municipalities have saved, and since I do not belong to a party, and I do not think that the Left did so either, who believes that we here at Christiansborg should dictate everything they should do in the municipalities, I think we should leave it a little to the municipalities to assess how they want to spend the money. Then there are some municipalities which, unfortunately, have cut down on the teaching staff. Learned from that experience, when we entered into the agreement on the Finance Act in 2015, it was such that it is a pool from which the municipalities can apply, and subsequently it is approved that the money has been spent on staff, instead of what was done earlier, namely that the money was just sent out to the municipalities, where we saw that it actually meant cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171523	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171525	Wow, that was an answer with many words in it. I am just a little surprised that you will not interfere in the municipalities' finances if the municipalities dismiss educators, but that you want to interfere in the municipalities' finances if the municipalities are to hire educators. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171544	In fact, the reason I used many words was because I wanted to answer the question. I think that is very reasonable in the Folketing. I think that what is crucial is to ask: do we create an economic framework that is reasonable for the municipalities so that they have the opportunity to employ the necessary teaching staff? I think it's going in the wrong direction. When the government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats, makes a change of priority contribution in the municipality agreement, they have to cut by 1%. out in the municipalities in the coming years, it will have consequences for the children. We've done the opposite. We actually delivered some new money, so it was possible to hire some staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171621	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171625	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Fortunately, we agree with SF on a lot of things and consider SF to be a very important partner in this room and look forward to the collaboration also in the new collection. However, one area has been discussed, and this is the case with the privatisation of DONG, where we have had disagreements from the time when Goldman Sachs was sold out and where there was all the trouble in connection with what SF was unfortunately involved in. And here, most recently, before we have even found out what was really going on at the time and discovered the extent of the scandal, a further privatisation has been chosen by means of a stock exchange quote. I've heard SF's explanation why you think it's a good idea. I think it's a really bad idea. It is a company that owns our electricity supply in large parts of Zealand, which owns some of our power plants and owns some of our wind farms, and they will now be sold out to the highest bidder. But what I really want to ask is not so much, it is more, whether the SF can support the proposal put forward by the Alternative and Enhedslisten, namely that this very controversial issue will be put to a referendum so that the Danes can vote on whether or not they support a listing on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171741	I don't think it's a secret to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted states that SF has been concerned with maintaining state control over DONG. It has been SF's focus since 2004, when the discussion about DONG was held the very first time. We made sure that the majority of shares remained in the hands of the state. We have fought for this since then, and I am very sorry that we do not have the Enhedslisten as an ally here, because if you were now in the settlement, we were the more who fought for it to be the state that actually stood with most of the shares in DONG. It is not the case that the state has at any time owned 100 per cent. of the shares in DONG, but we have, as such, always held the majority shareholding, and that is what the SF has been fighting for. In relation to a referendum on DONG, we have an agreement; an agreement has been reached at Christiansborg, and of course we stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171829	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171830	I fully agree that an agreement has been reached, and the proposal we have put forward together with the alternative is that it is said that the agreement reached this late Friday afternoon is the one we are sending to a referendum, for example. on the date on which we shall vote on the reservation. Everyone is aware that, for example, when you are going to be able to do something about it, you are not going to be able to do anything about it. privatised to Goldman Sachs, it was about 87 percent. of the Danes who were opposed to the sale. We know that this is deeply controversial; we know that it is something that has absorbed the Danes. And that's why we can disagree about the reason for continuing the privatisation of DONG, as you do with this listing, and about inviting more private people inside, but couldn't we agree that it would be reasonable to ask the Danes what they think before making this decision, which is of course on behalf of all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171915	I would like Enhedslisten to join the SF in the fight to ensure that the state retains the majority in DONG. It has been the SF together with the Social Democrats who have fought in the settlement to ensure that the majority of DONG's shares are still in the hands of the state. And there I am sorry that Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten are riding a bathing ticket without even taking responsibility for ensuring that the state maintains DONG. Having said that, we are behind the agreement we have reached and therefore we do not support a referendum. That's the way it is when you make deals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171948	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008171955	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your speech. I just have one question. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur mentioned that it is very important for the SF that we have a good primary school with skilled teachers, said the rapporteur, who has time for preparation and education. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur how, as part of the conciliation circle behind the reform of the primary school, SF, in view of the challenges we have seen so far, with the reform of the primary school: poor well-being among pupils, teachers fleeing from primary school, a massive approach to private and free schools, will work to get the primary school back on track, i.e. as part of the conciliation circle behind the reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172041	I think it is absolutely crucial that we open up the dialogue with teachers. And the reason it's crucial is that we need to get the primary school back on track. That requires an evaluation. It takes us to get a look through what works and what doesn't work. There is no doubt that we have at least a challenge of inclusion in primary school; I think that almost all the parties in the Folketing have recognised that we have to do something about that. It will not take more money, but it will require the municipalities to ensure that the money follows the child included; it does not do so in all municipalities. It's an element. Another element is, of course, to look at whether we should not get more money into primary school. The SF has proposed this in the parliamentary election campaign, and we are happy to do so, because we have to recognise that some of the tasks that need to be done in primary school are not enough money for that. I am therefore also pleased that the Minister for Children and Education has invited us to take a look at the primary school, and we will, of course, try to work to make the primary school even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172137	Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172140	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. Then I just have two supplementary questions, which are a little more specific. Does the rapporteur think that school days are too long as they are today and will the SF work for a softening on that point? And does the rapporteur think that teachers' working time rules are too inflexible, as they are today, in terms of how to prepare their teaching and will the SF work for a softening on that point?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172211	Firstly, on the length of the school day, I would like to say that it is possible in the various municipalities to convert the length of the day to, for example, the length of the day. instead of having two adults in teaching. I think that in several municipalities we should take advantage of the possibility of perhaps having shorter school days, but then in the hours there are, have two adults in the teaching. It may be a teacher, it may be a teacher, it may be two teachers. But I think that might help make school day a little more flexible. This is done very well in some municipalities, and in other municipalities it is done less well. In relation to the teachers' working time, I am very pleased that SF made it possible to conclude local agreements. Now we have seen half of the country's municipalities conclude local agreements with the teachers, who, of course, place both the school management and the teachers better in relation to putting the preparation time on the schedule and maybe also be a little more flexible in the scheduling.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172304	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172308	Thank you. I think that a very long time ago I came to say something about the reason why it is important to us, and then I think it was on Twitter that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr wrote that I would help the rich at Frederiksberg and not do anything for the 3Fs elsewhere in the country. At any rate, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr could have said that, but I am quite sure that we can find it. I would just like to ask: is the root cause problem such a particular problem that applies in isolation to rich people, or is it also the 3Fs elsewhere in the country that have to leave home and home because we are so busy taxing people from house and home?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172352	After all, we have got a rather strange division into property tax and land tax, which means that you can live far out in the countryside and have a property and be a pensioner and experience that your taxes are rising while you can stay at Frederiksberg and have no physical area at all, but experience that your property taxes are frozen. So I recognise that there may be many both rich and poor who are affected by this problem. We have already looked at it in connection with the tax agreement, where we discussed housing taxes, and we have agreed that we have fixed the area until 2020, and I am actually behind that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172431	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172433	It was probably answers as expected, but I will allow myself to be a little discouraged about it. So, that means that we should then let those property assessments and a new assessment system sail until 2020. Would it not be morally right to say that we are freezing the land until we have a new assessment system? Or should you just say, it's nice, let's just milk the homeowners for all the crowns they have, and then don't care that some of them have to go from house to home?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172459	Now we have to give priority and be financially responsible, I have to say to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. You can't do everything in this world, including you can't say that you want to freeze the ground debt and at the same time provide more educators in our day care institutions. As far as this priority is concerned, there should be no doubt that I think it is much more important that we have educators in our day care institutions and that we have more of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172522	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172527	Thank you. The rapporteur said that SF was allocated 500 million. kr. for more educators. However, I would just like the rapporteur to confirm whether this did not in fact mean that the legislation allowed the bill to be passed directly on to the parents, so that it meant an increase in the user fee for the parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172548	Now we have municipal autonomy in Denmark, and it is up to the municipalities within a certain ceiling to assess what the price should be on leisure schemes, on day-care institutions etc. We must recognise that there is a crazy difference between it and where you are in the country, and I have noted that some of the places where the Danish People's Party has decisive influence are also some of the places where you help to increase the price of the day institutions most. That is, of course, a political priority. We are, in fact, concerned that it should be cheaper to have your children in day care. We know that this is one of the most integrated places, and some of the socially vulnerable children and children of other ethnic origin benefit from attending day care centres, and therefore prices should not rise too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172626	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172628	Well, one of the consequences of that legislation was that the bill was passed on to the parents. Having said that, however, I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on whether the rapporteur will go to the financial legislation negotiations with a requirement that children and young people placed in care may be entitled to legal protection. I ask because I have previously been in a debate with the rapporteur's party colleague Mrs Trine Torp, who has said that SF would like to do so, and then I just wondered why the SF did not arrange for it to be introduced at the time when the SF had the post of Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172707	There should be no doubt that protection is really important for SF. We have fought for this both in the context of the pool negotiations, and we have fought for this in the context of the Finance Act, and we continue to fight for this because we are talking about some of the most vulnerable young people who, when they are 18 years of age, are experiencing enormous problems because they do not necessarily have family contact. And that's the idea of defense, i.e. that you're still holding on to the kids. So, yes, we will continue to fight for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172733	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172738	Thank you. I'd really like to follow up on Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's question about the employees of the Danish day care institutions. The fact is that the number of employees in the Danish day care institutions has fallen from 70,208 in 2011 to 67,188 in 2013, to be exact now. How will the rapporteur explain the reduction in the number of employees in Danish day care institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172809	Mrs Jane Heitmann mentions the difference between 2011 and 2013. Subsequently, money was actually set aside for, among other things: The 2015 Finance Act, that is, the year we are in here. A total of 250 million was set aside. kr. for more educators. However, there is no doubt that we had a challenge, as the Finance Act 2012 already provided for EUR 0.5 billion. kr. to further educational staff. We could see that the municipalities did not spend the money on educational staff and that is why we followed up afterwards. Having said that, I am very interested in why the Left does not think this is more important. The Left's own children's rapporteur has been out in the election campaign saying that it is important that we have more educational staff and that we then have not chosen to give priority to this in the Finance Act, I think it is most shocking.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172901	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172902	Now the cadence is like this: I am the one who is asking questions to the rapporteur, not the other way around. Now the rapporteur himself mentions that 250 million have been set aside. kr. to more educational staff in 2015. The rapporteur mentioned a breach in the rapporteur's speech and accused the Left of breaking a promise, and that is quite comical, because the SF went to elections to add 2 billion. kr. for e.g. More educators 2,000 more educators, if I remember correctly. How, then, does this relate to the fact that the number has fallen from 70,208 in 2011 to 67,188 in 2013 when we talk about the number of employees in the Danish day care institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172949	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008172950	The SF went to elections in 2015 for 2 billion to be allocated. kr. more every year to 5,000 more educators out in our day care institutions. We still believe that to be the case, there should be no doubt about that. However, it is not the case that we are in government, I would say to Mrs Jane Heitmann, and that is why it cannot be said that it is a breach of promise that we will not be able to implement it in 2016. I just want to make that clear. It's a little bit difficult, but I'll try to do my best to fight for the best interests of the children, too, forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173021	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173039	Thank you. I would really like to stick with the pedagogues. Because, as indeed has been mentioned in this Chamber today, and I hope the SF rapporteur can confirm this, one has been said and it has actually become something else. Can the rapporteur not confirm from the platform today that it was indeed the case that there were fewer educators in the day institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173055	No, for the figures presented by the Left are about figures from 2011 to 2013 and not until 2015. However, it is true that there was a decrease in the years from 2011 to 2013, I certainly recognise that. At the same time, the number of children also fell, and these things are usually connected. When there are fewer children, it is not usually the case that at the same time you turn up the number of educators. Having said that, all in all we have delivered for 750 million. kr. to several educators a year since the SF entered the government in 2011.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173128	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen's second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173130	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. We have the impression that SF would really like to spend a great deal of money when it comes to more educators in the day institutions. At the same time, the rapporteur tells us right now that fewer children can also be present in the day institutions. Could the rapporteur possibly explain to me today: is there a limit to how much money SF will spend on more educators? Could the rapporteur confirm that sometimes it may be necessary to dismiss educators if it is the case that fewer children are coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173210	Surely there should be no doubt that if the number of children falls drastically, it will also have consequences for educators. However, we are still not in line with proper standards in our day care institutions. When a teacher is alone with 12 children in a crèche, she must both change the diaper, comfort a child and, at the same time, prevent a fight. That's not good enough. It's not just something SF says. That was also something the Left's children's rapporteur said during the election campaign. And I totally agree. Because it is so crucial to ensure that our children have a proper upbringing. That is why we have prioritised it. We have said that it is important that in nurseries you are an adult to three children and that in kindergartens you are an adult to six children. This is similar to the current number of children to the need for 5,000 more educators. That's equal to 2 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173253	Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173256	Thank you for the floor. I am aware that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr does not care very much about the bank manager's tax payments and so on. She is also entitled to do so, but I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. When new figures show that 1 in 5 of the workforce today pays top tax, including many school teachers and nurses, thousands of mechanics, 1 in 10 metal workers, does the rapporteur not think that we should perhaps look at raising the limit on when people pay top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173328	I do not think it is a secret that when the tax reform was made while we were in government, there was actually a change on the border of top tax. I think it's fine where it's located. I think it made sense to move it a little for some of those who were in the middle-income groups, precisely the police officer and the teacher, but if I had to spend money on the payrolls and they have to be found first I would make tax cuts at the bottom. I wanted to reward the cashier, I wanted to reward both the SOSU assistant and the SOSU helper, because some of them have the physically hardest work in Denmark. I'd like to give them more money in my hands. I don't want to fund what the government wants by paying the cash benefits recipients. I'll leave it, for example. tax on financial transactions, which means that we get the proceeds from the Treasury that can pay tax relief at the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173417	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173419	Thank you. I would like to hear very briefly whether the rapporteur really believes from a moral point of view that it is wrong for a nurse who takes an extra job at the hospital to end up paying 67 per cent. in a compound marginal tax, when taxes are included? Does it reward the employee?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173439	It is funny: I do not have such a moral quabble in relation to our tax system. What I think is essential is that it is fair. Yes, those who earn the most must also bear the heaviest burdens. It is solidarity in our tax system. It also helps to ensure that all children have the opportunity to enter a school system which is, after all, tax-financed. We have a health system that is tax-financed. We can go to high-quality higher education, we can still prioritise money for research and not least for the climate solutions that both SF and Conservatives have warm dreams about. However, it requires tax funding, and that is why I do not believe that there is a moral problem in leaving the top tax limit where it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173522	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173524	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr mentioned in her speech that the best solution is to create jobs for the unemployed. Then I became very interested and listened carefully. Then it wasn't really there anymore. There were no proposals for measures that could create more jobs in Denmark. But now there is an opportunity to answer my question. What three concrete proposals does SF have to provide a better framework for Danish companies so that we can create more jobs so that we can actually get the unemployed into jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173608	I could start with one of the subsidies abolished by the government in the Finance Act, namely the subsidy for heat pumps. It is thus crucial for a great many climate-friendly companies that electricity is converted from our wind to heat in our combined heat and power plants. We have seen several combined heat and power plants knocking on the door, and I know that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen saw yesterday that the fact that the Left has so much opted for an anti-occupational direction there is actually going to mean the loss of jobs. That is the one element. In addition, there is general government action in the field of the environment and climate. Instead of having great ambitions, which means that companies such as Grundfos, Danfoss and Kamstrup and others are constantly developing new technology that can become exportable and new jobs, this sort of stops. A third element is the water companies we have in Denmark, which have lived well by some of the export arrangements we have. They are going to find it harder to export because no funds have been set aside for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173707	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173708	If this really were to be a priority for the SF, perhaps it should have been highlighted in the speech, rather than there being more talk about how we can ensure that people on public support receive more money. Then you can assess yourself as a listener whether it is really a priority on the part of the SF that they will actually create more and better frameworks for companies. But since we could find each other when we were doing the housing job scheme, it might also be that we could find each other when we talk about dismantling NO x I would like to ask. Will SF support that we create better conditions for our family businesses and their future, and will SF support the abolition of NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173752	SF is very concerned about some of what creates jobs in Denmark and is our second largest export product, namely the entire environment and climate area. After all, I find it thought-provoking that the government is turning a blind eye to this when Danish Industry is shouting at a guard. I have some doubts as to whether the rapporteur has heard my speech, so let me just quote from it: green industrial companies are the ones that create exports and jobs by thousands. It is a success that we must develop further. It's just to mention something, and I want to say that that's where we have to bet. I believe that abolishing NO x I think that is the policy of the past rather than the policy of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173836	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173838	Thank you. In fact, I would like to address a question that Mrs Adsbøl raised before, because I do not believe that the rapporteur has answered it. Mrs Karina Adsbøl asked: if the SF believes that it should be delivered in the matter of defence, how can it be that the SF did not carry it out while they had government power? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173910	We are still working to improve the protection of vulnerable young people in about 18 years of age. There were many things that actually worked out for us while we were in government. It was both more money for our children, an ambitious climate policy, a train fund and much more. However, as Mrs Louise Schack Elholm will see, while the Left is in government, there may also be things that we cannot succeed in getting through. It's called compromises. They also exist, but this is not the same as the fact that SF does not continue to fight for better protection for vulnerable young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173942	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008173943	It was really nice to have an answer. I would also like to address the rapporteur to the question of the 3,200 fewer educators. The rapporteur said that it makes no sense to look at it because it applied from 2011 to 2013. As far as I remember, SF stopped being in government in January 2014, so that means that it actually fits very well with the period when SF was in government. Is SF satisfied with the result, namely that 3,200 fewer educators arrived during the period when SF was in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174014	There should be no doubt that SF has always been concerned that there must be more educators for our children. That is why we fought further in 2015 to ensure that more money was put into the Finance Act, recognising that the municipalities did not spend it 0.5 billion. kr., we dropped off in 2012. 0.5 billion kr. is actually a lot in the field of children. We put it off every year in cooperation with the Enhedslisten, the Social Democrats and Radicals, because we were very focused on raising the efforts for our children. The municipalities just didn't spend the money wisely enough. Because they didn't use them in the field of children. We saw it spread to everything else, which is why we went into the budget law for 2015 taught by the experience of 2012 and targeted them much better. We have to recognise that if it is not always possible for the municipalities to take up the efforts we want, then we must do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174058	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174101	The SF is in the line of defense, and we are not in the alternative for good reasons. I have a question for SF and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. There is not so much openness about the process of purchasing fighter aircraft, and I have great respect for the fact that SF is taking the crutches it gives to be in a conciliation circle, but since we are not in and do not really get the information we would like, I think: SF still thinks it's the right thing to invest the 30 billion. kr. and perhaps with derived expenditure up to 100 billion. kr. In new fighter planes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174139	SF entered the defence settlement to make the Danish defence more modern and also to help streamline and save more in defence. It actually managed to get through with a saving of 2 billion. kr. a year. I think that is quite a good result of the defence. After all, we are working to do things as sensibly as possible. This also applies to F-16 aircraft or similar aircraft to be purchased, because I have to say that when we send Danish soldiers, of course they should not fly in rust bunkers or anything else, and we send Danish soldiers to important areas of the world. I will continue to support this when, for example, there is a need for the Commission to take action in this area. is a UN mandate. That is why they need proper equipment. That is not to say that we need to spend 30 billion. kr. I would like it to be a small amount, and it is also no secret that the SF believes that a smaller number of aircraft can be purchased. But in addition, I would urge the Secretary of Defense to invite the alternative to a cup of coffee to discuss any other questions. Perhaps that would be a very good way of working.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174243	Then it's mr. René Gade (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174244	Thank you. We are also in the process of establishing that contact. What I am interested in is also to have SF's wishes and demands presented when you sit in the conciliation circle, because it may well be us next time. Do they want to see a vision of where the Danish defence is going, or do they think it is okay with the divisions of efforts that we are doing internationally right now, which many in the defence are actually complaining about, because one would like to see a more defined effort in fewer areas, so that in fact there were sufficient resources to solve the tasks we put forward on the political side. Is this something that's good for the SF right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174321	Through the defence settlement, we have worked to focus efforts, professionalise and modernise defence. We have been concerned about this, because I think it is important that the various countries, when contributing to international efforts, bring their main competences. There are some areas where Denmark is very good, and there are some areas where it can be said that we might not be able to use the most force. We will continue to work on that. It's going to be the focus of the SF. Having said that, I would very much like to stress that when we send military personnel out into the world, we must also send them out well equipped and it is not acceptable that, for example, we should send them out. hears from aircraft mechanics or others that they are thus pressured to the utmost. Of course, we must ensure that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174359	Then it's Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174402	Thank you. These days we get a lot of feedback from parents who have their children in primary school. It is parents who write about children who have stomach ache, who do not want to meet, who do not want to see the long day of school we see. It is partly the really long school days that are the problem, but it is also the supporting education which is very much a problem because it is not qualified enough. I just have to say, I miss the SF in the primary school debate. I miss the fact that it is not only the Conservative People's Party that takes the lead and criticises the elements that do not work. So I hope that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr will take her side in the fight and fight with us for us to get something done about these long school days, that we will get something done about the content of the primary school reform that does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174451	I think it is crucial to say that the reform of primary schools is basically a good reform. It means that some children, who may not have the same opportunities as their academically strong comrades, are being equipped for the education system of the future. They get more opportunities simply by getting more learning. So basically, I think it is a good reform of primary school, but of course we must always be wiser. We hear that among other things. The inclusion does not work, that you might be able to look at models for long school days and other things. That's kind of what SF's been open to all the time. That's what we said in the election campaign. I think I have said this several times, and I know that our elementary school rapporteur, Mr. Jacob Mark has so much interfered with the debate on primary school. I think it was the only elementary school rapporteur, sir. Anders Bondo praised the teachers' annual congress. So I think that at least the teachers have heard the SF's voice here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174544	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174545	But, of course, everyone knows that when you enter into a political reform and sit and follow up, it is important that you both externally, but certainly also at the table, make the positions you have, and I just miss the fact that the SF is also beginning to take the teacher's side, the parent's side and starts to put into words some of the problems that are in the reform of primary school: there are too long days, inclusion is not working, the supporting education does not work, what should have been movement in the primary school, has been reduced to a walk in many places. The Conservative People's Party is just very much on its own, and that is why I hope that the SF will start to get on the ground and start to come out and ask some critical questions about the elements of the reform that clearly do not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174634	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174635	I think it is important that we evaluate the reform of primary schools and have a look at what really does not work and what works, rather than just assessing what individual groups say. In fact, there are also a great many parents who are happy about this reform, and that is something we should not be in doubt about. Then there are elements that do not work and that we are challenged by, among other things. when the municipalities cannot figure out how to make proper inclusion in the primary school. It is basically healthy that children, for example. is socially vulnerable, may also be in primary school. There just has to be the resources for it. It can also be children with a diagnosis that can actually fit into a class, and then there are children who cannot. That is really the challenge in primary school, namely that the primary school should be for everyone, and this requires that you constantly have a critical eye for it. I note that we have a minister who says very clearly that she is willing to discuss this with the conciliation circle. I know that our rapporteur has taken this matter up in the conciliation circle and we would, of course, like to keep looking at how we can make the primary school even better together with teachers, pupils and parents, because we owe it to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174736	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174750	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, in her speech, notes that the government will save money in the municipalities, after which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, as a matter of course, says that nuclear welfare will have to be spared, and asks: Who will it suffer now? Could it not be an opportunity that it was the bureaucracy that was spared instead of the core welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174803	When it comes to saving what is equivalent to 1% in the municipalities, many calculations show that it is really difficult to save more on bureaucracy. I have no doubt that in some places some bureaucracy can be abolished and I am very much in favour of debureaucratising. When meetings are held in the municipality and a lot of papers are forced down on the employees of our day care institutions • papers back and forth • it really means that you spend a lot of time that could otherwise have been spent on the children. So you could do both smarter and better. But it's pretty violent to have to save 1%. in a municipality, and if you convert it directly, you are talking about 11,000 layoffs that the parties responsible for the change of priority contribution in the municipality agreement have nodded to.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174846	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174848	Denmark is the country in the world as well as Norway, which has the most employees per year. citizens of the public sector, and yet many other countries have better welfare than Denmark. Why is it that it is not possible in Denmark, when it is possible in other countries, to provide a good service and to have good welfare with fewer public employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174911	Now I do not know which countries the rapporteur is referring to. I think that Denmark is both a good country and that it is a sensible welfare society that we have. And I think it is crucial that we should, among other things. have both good and skilled care for the elderly and also day care facilities where there are educators and educational staff. I know that there are some places where you choose to privatise kindergartens or choose to privatise care for the elderly, as we have seen in Sweden, and then you have fewer public employees in the public sector. But it is not necessarily the same as getting a better service. So I think it's kind of important to keep the target in mind as well. For us, it is about quality, and that is what is crucial, including in our welfare institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174954	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008174957	In reply to the question put by my colleague Mr. Hans Andersen said Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that there wasn't much future in such a thing NO x I always think it's nice when there are politicians who know exactly where the future business opportunities lie. It's always nice that we have the skills completely sharp in here. But I would just like the scale of globalisation to be a little more sharp with the SF than that which is not expressed. We can take such a low-practical, not very technological product as cement. When you produce cement, NO x x is emitted What then comes out of having a high NO x So I just have to hear: What good will come out of it for climate and environmental impact, that we move a production in Denmark that is energy efficient compared to other countries that are less environmentally harmful, that we push it and the jobs out of the country? What good will come of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175114	It's so nice that the true black left is so jumping out of the box. I think this is actually very refreshing, in other words, that we can sort of see where future business policy is. For the point relative to NO x x let me just try to give you another example. As far as agriculture is concerned, I have repeatedly heard the Left say that it is no good to demand it, but if you make demands on pig farmers, for example. food safety, as a result, we have pig exports to Japan as one of the few countries in Europe where we have access because we have high health requirements. So it is not only to the detriment of Danish industry that you make demands on them, it also helps both to develop industry and to create new market openings.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175212	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175213	It seems like it's a In other words, if we drive with demands in Denmark that are so high that it is not worth producing a product, then we will not stop using it. I do not quite know what an innovative green solution means that we do not need a relatively uncomplicated product as cement. We will not stop doing that if we do not produce it in Denmark. And then it's just, what good does it get for the climate? After all, it is the true green solution, the realistic solution, that is, that we produce the goods in Denmark with less energy consumption instead of moving production abroad and using more energy. I guess that's not good for the polar bears or anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175256	It's kind of like, the wolf's coming, the wolf's coming. That is how it is every time we have made environmental demands in Denmark. We have heard it from the bourgeois side over and over again that every time we make environmental demands, companies disappear from Denmark. What, for example, is that? has meant that we have developed some of the world's strongest water companies in Denmark? There are 200-300 medium-sized water companies in the middle Jutland, such as: has been developed because we have made demands on how we produce and handle water in Denmark. In Denmark, we have legislation requiring that we maximum. must waste 10%, from taking up water from groundwater until it is delivered in households. In Allerød, you're so good, you're down to 2%. Everywhere else in the world, water solutions are now being sought and water companies are increasingly exporting to the rest of the world. It's becoming one you can say new green adventures. This would never have happened if there had been little ambition in the environmental field, and that is why going wrong in the city is always to think that we should relax the environmental requirements, because it will only lead to more jobs. I think that's the wrong solution. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175401	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175402	Thank you. I'm gonna see if it was my ears that cheated on me. Did I hear the rapporteur reply to Mr McMillan-Scott's question? René Gade that the rapporteur was proud that the SF had achieved savings of 2.7 billion. kr. On the defense?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175424	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175426	Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur to elaborate on the consequences of the rapporteur's pride. Is it the more than 1,000 lost jobs for skilled people with relatively low-paid jobs? Is it now less possible for our soldiers to get the best possible equipment? Or is it the loss of government jobs in the province, which the SF is particularly proud to have had its way through?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175457	What has happened to the defence settlement is that the defence has been made more effective. In fact, like many other places in the public sector, more effective solutions can be found, especially in defence. We have succeeded in this in the defence settlement, and the SF is quite happy with that. This also means that defence has become better at really focusing on what are the core competences, that is, what you are really good at. This also means that money can still be found in the defence conciliation for, among other things. to buy F-16s, so I actually think the economy is all right. But I must understand that the Danish People's Party wants 3 billion to be set aside. kr. more a year for the defense?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008175536	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008190008	The meeting is reopened. I would like to give the floor to the Chairman of the Conservative People's Party, Mr President. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008190022	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by agreeing with the Prime Minister's words when he says in the opening speech that Denmark is a lovely country. Denmark is a country of which we can be proud. I think we can also make Denmark an even better place to live if we use common sense. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his opening speech. In the Conservative People's Party, we are pleased that we have a new government and a blue majority. It should benefit the Danes. There are also indications that the Prime Minister is ready to take action, but I note that there are a few areas where there is a difference between what the government is reporting and what the Conservative People's Party wants. The differences are mainly about how we ensure our common security and opportunities for future generations. Here our police, defence, foreign, education, climate and tax efforts play a crucial role. Although we are the smallest party in parliament, we intend to fight for our cause. We feel strongly committed to the people who chose to show us their trust with a cross on 18 June. We are here to implement as far as possible conservative policy. It creates security and opportunities for everyone in our society. We will sit constructively at the negotiating table, we will seek the influence where it is, but we will also allow ourselves to resign and say no when developments are going in the wrong direction. When it comes to the Finance Act, the government's proposals have many good elements, for example. measures that make it easier to operate. But the government's draft budget is also lacking. The Finance Act isn't just dry numbers. It is about and tells a story about what we politicians think is important, what we want to prioritise, what values we put in the top priority. Here are places where the government's priorities in our optics are a bit skewed. For the Conservative People's Party, it is clear that it is morally wrong to tax people from house and home. The financial bill has yet to deal with a key tax problem right now: the increasing root cause. There are Danes around the country who are currently counting on when they are forced to sell their house because their housing tax is rising and rising even though their wages are not moving much out of the place. We have come to the conclusion that an ordinary family in Rødovre, for example. Pays 26,000 kroner. a year in the ground for their parcel house. And I am well aware that we have also heard today that not everyone thinks that this is a lot of money and that it is not something we should do something about, but where I come from is DKK 26,000. really, really much money. There must be peace of mind about something as central as our home. I also hope that the government will acknowledge this during the negotiations. Police and defence resources must also be addressed. When the Danes call for help, they need to know that the police can move out quickly. When our home is violated by criminals, cases must be solved, not parked. And when the ugly face of terror appears to us, we must strike down quickly. We can only do that if the police have the necessary resources. They do not have that today, and it is a joint responsibility for us in this Chamber that we get something done about it. The reality is that our police officers are under pressure. Fewer cops have to solve more and more tasks. Over the past year, the number of overtime hours has reached 55,000 on Funen alone. In Central and West Jutland the figure is over 46,000 hours. The problem is acute; action is needed. We want more police, more officers on the street, more security for the Danes. We're on the side of the victims. That is why we want to see more severe penalties for perilous crime, not only for their preventive effect, but, in particular, for citizens' sense of justice. We also need to make an active effort to ensure that young people do not become involved in crime. Therefore, it is important that young people meet with consistency the first time they get at odds with the law. I know that from my own SSP history. We look forward to discussing this particular area with the government. The Danish defence also runs on the pumps both personnel and material. Recently, a study showed that more than 4,000 defence employees are actively trying to get away. The defence is in a weak state; it must be strengthened. We were several parties, including my own, behind the latest defence settlement. We must also be honest and say that a lot has happened since. Putin shows that he is not only an aggressor in words but also in deeds, and the Islamic State is continuing to advance, while we spend less money on defence and thus our common security insurance, as membership of NATO is. Unfortunately, this is not the only place where failure is happening at the moment: the emergency is our accident insurance when the storm rages, the water rises, the school burns and disease outbreaks hit. It must not be terminated; on the contrary, it must be renewed. I would therefore urge that the great savings on our preparedness, which are contained in an earlier agreement, be dropped. All our men and women in uniform deserve a great thank you for taking on the great task of securing our security. You're lifting the task unsurpassed. Thank you very much. And then our veterans need the help they deserve. That must be beyond doubt. The Left Government has chosen to find funding for its initiatives, among others. through savings in development aid. I think it makes sense to look critically at how we use our public funds. We think so too. In fact, I believe we are obliged to do so. However, at a time when the number of refugees in the world is increasing, we believe that the savings are too great. There is no indication that the refugee problem will be reduced, on the contrary. We have also said that we must address the root of the problem by creating safe zones in Syria. We've been singing that song for a long time, and the Glee Club has grown. But real action is needed. Let us now help people in and around Syria to a life of greater security and better opportunities in Syria. It is also about values when we in the Conservative People's Party give high priority to education for children and young people. Education creates better living conditions and opportunities for every young person. Therefore, we need a strong primary school that focuses on professionalism and education. As a politician, but also as a former primary school teacher, I am deeply impressed when more and more parents see their children suffering from the new school reform. Birgit sent me a letter about her son, who is in fifth grade in the Copenhagen area. She writes: My heart is crying, my brain is shouting stop, and my mind and my mind are saying: shout out the politicians, and let us as parents help tell them that we are losing a lot of amazing young people on the floor with this crazy reform in my eyes. On several occasions, the Conservative People's Party has urged the conciliation circle behind the reform of the primary school to listen to criticism, to take responsibility for our children and to give them better opportunities, to have the courage to recognise political mistakes and shortcomings. I would like to call for this again. I don't think primary school gets any better by political stubbornness. Political stubbornness also does not create a better climate and environment for our children and grandchildren. In the Conservative People's Party, we are in favour of common sense, including when it comes to climate change. We believe that we must leave a better planet for those who come after us, just as we want our children to have better living conditions than those we ourselves have had. That is also why we are pursuing a snug climate law where consideration for future generations goes hand in hand with Danish business interests. As a former employee of Grundfos, I have seen with my own eyes that a green transition can easily take place without it costing jobs. In fact, we can make the green transition a gain for our society and create more jobs if only we use common sense and are a little ambitious. So far it has appeared from our perspective that the government sees this as either-or, a choice between business interests and nature's welfare. We want to help by showing that we can do both things at the same time. There is no need to saw over the green branch on which Denmark sits. The Prime Minister has presented a number of declarations of intent on future actions. We look forward to working together on this. I would also like to acknowledge to the Prime Minister for good and constructive cooperation so far, and I am sure that his approach to the work also sets a precedent for the other government's trade and trade. So I am confident that we can make Denmark an even better country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008190954	Then I would like to make the first brief comment to Mrs Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008190959	I would like to ask the rapporteur about development aid, because the rapporteur himself mentioned that it is a time when we see so many refugees, a time when parts of the world are in flames, and there is a great need for some people like Denmark to go in and help both with humanitarian aid in the short term, but also, of course, in the long term, with regard to giving people, to give people hope for a future in their own country. That is what our development aid is doing. That is why I am delighted to note that the Conservative People's Party does not want to cut development aid as hard as what we see from the Left. But I would like to know whether you are absolutely firm on the 0.8%. Is it the case that the Conservatives can give a guarantee that here you put your heels in and stand firm?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191057	We do not make ultimate demands on the negotiations. We have established that government policy is 0.7, ours is 0.8. We also presented in our 2020 plan last year that that is where we think it should lie. Then we go into a negotiating room for the Finance Act and take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191113	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191115	However, if we agree that it is incredibly important that Denmark is helping to help other people to have a future and hope for a future in their own country, then we must, of course, stick to development aid. After all, there were many things that the Conservative People's Party would very much like, and one of the things that I am most concerned about is that the money for development aid disappears like tax cuts. So there is my question: can we then get an indication from the Conservative People's Party that this is not the way to go? Because I also hear that the Conservatives are talking about tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191157	Yes, we do, and we like to do it loud and long and everything we can get along with, but it is not the case that we only have two pieces to move with • some would say something else • but there is not just foreign aid and tax relief. There are a whole range of areas, it is a great puzzle, and we are in favour of the negotiations with a position that says that 0.7 is too harsh a cut, but we are also ready to discuss, firstly, how we use development aid and, secondly, what size it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191228	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191232	I just grabbed a caramel and it might be a little hard to talk. I just don't know what to do about it, but I'm sorry. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech no, I simply cannot, I have to go down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191252	We'll take the next one.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191254	I've been saved by a good colleague of the Social Democratic Party. Sorry it happens so often, that's right. I heard the Conservative President talk about the green transition and precisely how we should not cut the green branch that we are sitting on, because it has actually proved to be really, really good for the Danish business community that we are ahead of the green transition. So I understand that the Conservatives have listened to the many voices that are currently concerned about the cuts that have been put forward in the government's draft budget. Is that some of what the Conservatives can promise or perhaps give a guess about, namely where it is that you want to put your lot when you come to the financial law negotiations? This is where nearly 2 billion have been allocated. kr. I hope that the Conservatives will be able to say that they will try to change some of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191355	I can, of course, reply in the same way as I replied to Mrs Gjerskov about development aid, that we have a different view from what has been played out, and we are taking that into the negotiations. I very much believe that with the green transition we can hold onto a great many jobs. We're actually serious. Some people have interpreted this as saying that now there has been such a new attitude from the Conservative People's Party. That is not the case, it is not a new approach. Indeed, we have been quite aware for many years that climate and environment are important to give political priority as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191427	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191429	I am not trying to claim that this is a new position from the Conservatives either, but it is a position which is different from that of the government, and that is why I have to hear whether we cannot come a little closer to it, because there is a budget for cuts of 2 billion. kr. in the Finance Act. Can the Conservatives guarantee that this will not be the case on the day they put a yes to the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191500	It is quite fantastic that we should stand here today and say exactly what we are saying 'yes' and 'no' to what we are doing and what the course of negotiations should be. After all, we come up with what we mean and then we have a constructive debate with the government, and then we assume that we are part of a future financial law, and then Mrs Pernille Skipper can be absolutely sure that we will take into account both foreign aid and the climate and the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191527	I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191532	I have also asked for the floor because I would like to ask the Conservatives' view of development aid. I am very pleased that there is at least one party in the bourgeois camp which gives priority to the poorest people in the world and, above all, to these famous neighbourhoods high enough to not want to cut development aid at least not as much as the government wants. Like several of the other questioners, I'm curious how firm the Conservatives stand on this point of view when it comes to how to weigh it in relation to some of the other wishes. Can't we try to put a little more words on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191612	I can certainly say that we can't. At any rate, I am not standing here from the platform and saying that, by the way, I want you to hear what everything we have for the Minister of Finance tomorrow is and how we are going to give priority to it and what character it will have on the scale. We say what we mean in every policy area that is, and then we go into a negotiating area and negotiate about it, and we have said that we are fully involved in discussing how we use current development aid, how we ensure more help in the neighbourhood, more humanitarian aid, and whether there are places that are currently receiving development aid but are not supposed to have. We have a very pragmatic approach to this discussion. We simply think that the proposal that is before us cuts too hard to the bone.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191652	Sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191654	Thank you. It is, of course, understandable and wise not to make ultimate demands or to issue guarantees here, so I can understand that. But Mr. Soren Pape Poulsen did not answer how realistic Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen considers that with the government we now have, development aid can be brought up to the level desired by the Conservatives once it has been reduced to 0.7%. of GNP?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191731	It may be very difficult for me to interpret the feelings that may exist in the government and other parties about how individual policy areas and development aid can go up and down. I just note that we have an entrance to this, which says it should be 0.8%, while the government believes it should be 0.7%. At the same time, we have said that this is a debate like everything else, and that is why we are not making the ultimate demands, because we think that is something strange to do as a party, because that is the sure way out of any debate. So we show up and discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191804	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191806	I will be so happy when the Conservatives tell me how the green transition creates jobs in Denmark. I fully agree with that. There is no doubt that some of Denmark's livelihoods and what creates production jobs are green conversions. So thank you so much. We, together with the Conservatives, still have a majority in the Folketing behind the climate law we decided in the previous session. The government's current climate minister says that he doesn't really care about it, and so I would like to ask the Conservatives: what do you think of such a message, since there is now a majority in the Folketing that we should continue to meet that objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191851	Then we think that there is room for improvement, and it certainly comes with good dialogue and mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191858	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191858-2	After all, I am a great supporter of dialogue, but dialogue is not always enough. Will the Conservatives be willing to accept other, perhaps more active, parliamentary instruments than simply talking nicely to the Minister? 'Cause I'm not sure it's necessarily moving so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191917	Yeah, but that's where you start. However, I would like to make it clear here that the climate legislation we are part of and where we have a target of 40% reduction in CO2 because that is an objective and an objective is something we are doing everything we can to work towards. Then it may be that no matter how much you do, you get very close, but maybe it doesn't just hit the number clean. But at least to have the objective that this is what we are working for and that we listen to the recommendations of the Climate Council and what else they will bring, we will stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191951	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008191953	Thank you. We Social Democrats are very concerned about development aid, and that is why I would like to return to it a little. Last week, the chairman of the Conservative People's Party said to Politiken: "I can't imagine that we'll get a development aid of 0.7 percent. I find that very difficult to see. Yes, it may happen, but not in a finance law where we participate. That is what the rapporteur said, and I should like to hear: is it still the policy of the Conservatives, or has it changed from last week?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192033	No, we do not have the habit of adopting a new attitude every week. I am very pleased with the great interest that several questioners have already had in the Conservative People's Party's view of development aid, and I thank you for your concern. But I can say that I simply do not see that we can end up at 0.7%. It is simply cutting too hard in the present situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192059	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192100	Then I would like to know whether the Chairman of the Conservative People's Party will hand over to our many talented development organisations that development aid will not be reduced to 0.7%. of GNP.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192119	In other words, the last time I spoke, the Conservative People's Party had just barely reached 90 seats. The thing about handshaking is something we do in markets, the horse market in Bjerringbro and elsewhere. I can't shake hands with anyone on where it ends. It depends on what a majority in the Folketing does in the context of a Finance Act. I don't decide that on my own.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192140	Then I give the floor to Mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192146	Thank you. I, like many others, am also concerned about climate action, but there are other things I am also concerned about, and what I want to ask here is about our Danish coasts. That's where we have the wildest nature in Denmark when it's most wild. That's where we've all been swimming as children and do it when we're on holiday in Denmark in the summer. I can be a little worried if these coasts are now falling, if we end up seeing hotel buildings where we usually can swim freely and where all Danes have access. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: will the Conservative People's Party help to ensure that our coasts are still unbuilt outside coastal towns and that in future we still have access to them all as citizens of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192239	I am very much looking forward to discussing a new law on plans or a change to what we have now, because it is on many stretches so foolish that I can hardly sleep at night when I think about it. Then there are some parts of the law that are about our shores. After all, we agree in a large majority that there are ten projects on the coasts that are being looked at in the first place and which will make good sense, and we also support that. But, of course, we do not believe that our coasts should simply be built. Of course we don't mean that. Our coastlines are a gift we've been given. It is an inheritance that we have received from previous generations and that we must pass on. We do a lot of digging about that. But that is why we do not think that all development should go on, even on the coast. And because you may be 250 metres from the coast, we do not think it should be forbidden to have a garden bench either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192331	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192333	Now studies say that tourists, among other things. This is because of the free coastlines and perhaps instead the emphasis should be placed on the development of coastal towns. I would therefore like to ask whether this is a view shared by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192353	I think that makes sense, but I feel that it is not religion for us. It is very important for us that we maintain our coastlines, that we maintain our coasts, but from there and then to say that no projects can take place, there is a long way to go. There we will allow ourselves to use our common sense. On the whole, we would like the present law of planning to be much more surrounded by common sense than it is at present. It's fucked up.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192416	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192418	Thank you. It could be understood from the rapporteur's speech that the root cause is the greatest problem. It could also be understood from the rapporteur's speech that the Conservatives will fight their cause, that they are here to have the greatest possible influence, and that they will also take the liberty of saying no, because, according to the rapporteur's own statement, the Finance Act has very great shortcomings. We are not really going to learn much more about this in relation to how the Conservatives stand before the Finance Act. So I have had to resort to a little hobby I have, namely to read the Conservative member magazine; you have many strange hobbies in this life. And that is what the rapporteur says: I cannot imagine that we will be taking part in an agreement on the budget law without any significant action being taken on the ground. If we as a party do not say what we are fighting for, we cannot expect anyone to know. I'm not in the world for Lars Løkke Rasmussen to have it easy as Prime Minister. So my question is: can the Conservative People's Party contribute to a financial law that does not freeze the ground debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192517	I'm so glad that Mr. Knox... Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen reads the Conservative member magazine; that only makes you wiser. I must say, as I said in my speech here, that we reserve the right to say "no' to any agreements that may be made. When it comes to the Finance Act, we expect to be involved. But I stand by my words, as I also said after the summer group meeting: that I find it very difficult to see the Conservative People's Party in a budget law which does not address the root cause. Because that's a big problem, I have to say. This is a major problem for a great many families and pensioners, and it is as if there are a lot of people in this Chamber who do not want to recognise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192557	I would remind you that we in the Parliamentary Assembly address each other with Mr. and Mrs. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192603	I'll be brief. I'm actually reading a lot of conservative literature. This summer, I read the conservative bloodbath... that makes you smarter, in your own way. Just briefly, I would like to say that it is fine for the rapporteur to say that one will reserve the right to say no and that one has difficulty in seeing oneself in it, but if one just has to answer with one word yes or no, can the Conservative People's Party be included in a budget law that does not freeze the ground debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192631-2	I've told you several times. I can't see at all that we can be in if the reason isn't addressed. How to deal with it will be a question of more steps, and then we will have to take that discussion from there. But the reason is very, very important to us. After all, I have visited people before the election campaign and during the election campaign, which, in view of the increasing ground debt, is raining on: when is it that we have to leave house and home? I think everyone in this room should take this seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192701	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192703	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I thought it was great to know that Denmark is a lovely country, many of us agree with that. There were also some things you were unhappy with at the Conservatives. such major bus advertisements during the election campaign, where it said "Stop the ground blame." And as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, the rapporteur has already said to his own party body that you cannot see yourself in a financial agreement. On the other hand, Mr. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party recently said that the crucial mandates lie with the Conservatives. Then the Conservatives will do as they did in connection with the municipal agreement, in other words vote no and do not go along with the financial agreement if you do not get the 600 million. kr., as the Ministry of Finance estimates it will cost to freeze the ground debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192757	I am incredibly pleased and grateful that the questioner has noticed the Conservative Stop campaign that was there until more did in many ways, I have found. But I must also say that it does not make sense for me to stand here and say: if we do not have one or the other in one way or another, we are just out. I think I have made it very clear by saying that I stand by what I have said in that article. And Brian Mikkelsen is right: we have the crucial mandates, just as the other parties in the blue bloc have the crucial mandates when it comes to counting to 90. This is something we share in each of our ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192839	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192840	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen also says that you have the greatest influence you have had in the last 20 years, and that you have these crucial mandates. Now that you have them, and now that we've been told that you won't promise your voters, your party body and everyone else who's now got this promise presented that you're gonna secure this 600 million. kr., will you promise to secure some of the millions or make just some kind of promise that matches it, that you have the crucial mandates, and that, as you yourself say, you will not enter into an agreement without getting this on the ground?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192914	I'll remind you, sir. Kaare Dybvad that we are Des here in Parliament and I now give the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192920	I can't possibly add anything I haven't said before. I mean what I have said in the Member's magazine, I mean what I have said to the newspapers, namely that I cannot see us in a financial agreement without addressing the root cause. I can't tell you more clearly than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192938	Then I give the floor to Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008192939	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Now it is no wonder that we are a little interested in foreign aid, because the DF is hopeless on that issue, and the Left has run from all the old decent attitudes to that issue, and that is why we are obviously looking for someone who will try to stand firm on a proper position in that area. I have discussed this a great deal with Per Stig Møller and Lene Espersen, who both say that development aid should therefore be of interest. I would like to ask another question, since we cannot move on. Does the rapporteur not think it is quite unreasonable that now that we, except for the Danish People's Party, have drawn up a common strategy in the field of development, the Prime Minister and the government are running away from the agreements we have so that they will already cut 2.85 billion this year. kr., as they write? They will cut that this year, when there are only 3 months left of the year. Isn't that obscene politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193053	I'd like to invite Mr. Christian Juhl to discuss politics with the current members of the Conservative Parliamentary Group in the future at least. Otherwise, I would just like to say that it was also one of the things I was out to comment on in Politiken that I think it is also to the fresh side that you decide that now you cut that amount in the last three months, and you should not really ask anyone about that. I find myself puzzled about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193120	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193121	But when I ask the rapporteur and not Lene Espersen or Per Stig Møller at this moment, it is certainly because there is a new man at the helm of the state. Saying it's quite fresh isn't... sorry... there's not much protest in that, I'd say. I wanted to tell my partner in the government what are you doing here? Try to think about if a mayor nine months into a year was told: Hey, you're not getting the money anyway. If that was what had happened, then I think there would be a riot in the municipalities. I would like an answer to another question that was included in the speech: the root of the problem and refugees. There the rapporteur said that it was the lack of safe zones in Syria. I would like to hear: is it not the war in Syria that is the root of the problem? And is it not important that we find a solution that is not just more military, which means more dead, but that we find a political solution? And if we can agree on that, what is the political solution from a conservative point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193222	I think the shapes slip a little here after dinner. One thing we certainly don't do in Parliament is swear. I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193231	Thank you. That is a big question in a brief remark. I just want to say that we think it is more military, understood in that it is, after all, Assad who is currently flying out with barrel bombs and bombing his own people. Assad needs to know, if you fly out and bomb your own people, we'll shoot your planes down. There must be safe zones and then there must be troops on the ground in a humanitarian corridor so that the Syrians can be safe. And then I agree that a political solution needs to be found where Assad is not there, but there is not necessarily a change of regime. We will not only arrange that in Denmark, but an international agreement in the area that contains this, I think, is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193311	Mrs Ida Auken has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193313	I have been listening a little to the debate and have just one simple question, namely whether the Conservatives are impressed by the visions of the government's draft Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193324	Many of the things that are in the draft budget are, after all, entirely in agreement with us. We then have some political views on some points where we would like to clarify it a little. I am quite sure that the reason why the government plays out as they do is, of course, that you are waiting for a bunch of very good proposals that are now coming to the Minister for Finance in the coming days. I think that the draft budget is quite good and, above all, if the Conservative corrections are taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193357	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193358	I actually understand that we are not impressed by the visions; at least it was not a clear yes that came from up there. So I'm just asking again if the Conservatives are impressed by the visions of the government's draft Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193411	This is the kind of thing where, before I joined the Danish Parliament, I have sat at home in front of the TV and thought about: What are some of these questions for in a debate in the Danish Parliament? When it comes to my feelings about the government's visions, am I supposed to say that it's a seven, it's an eight, or that it's very visionary, or that it's not that much? Yes, there is a financial bill and we want to go further on some points, and that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193435	Then I give the floor to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193440	Thank you. I'm so happy when I hear about the green visions of the Conservatives. It creates a hope that someone will be fighting against these savings in the Finance Act for 2 billion. kr. But I would really like to ask something else, and that is the 16-point plan for agriculture, which the Conservative People's Party is also behind. It is a plan that should allow farmers to pour more manure on the fields, it removes peripheral zones and allows farmers to spray and fertilise in vulnerable nature. It risks rolling back 25 years of water-environmental efforts, it poses a threat to our drinking water, and it poses a threat in particular to the nature that is already under heavy pressure. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that if we destroy Danish nature and eradicate Danish species, we will leave a country for our children and grandchildren who are more poor than we took over ourselves? And how does such a policy fit in with the good ideas of the Conservatives on the generational contract?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193544	That's a very good match. Well, the 16-point plan was agreed before the election. We have not changed our position on this because there have been elections. We are entirely behind the 16-point plan, and I have to remind you that the challenge is, of course, that there is simply a lack of protein in our cereals. Therefore, the fields that can tolerate it must be fertilised more so that there is the protein in the feed that is needed. This is the part of the environmental discussion we never belong to, and right now we are producing soya in South America, and Denmark then imports soya to add it to the feed to get enough protein, instead of allowing Danish farmers to fertilize the fields what the fields can tolerate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193624	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193625	Now the time for this speech is not long enough to justify this nonsense about protein in cereals. Now I just want to ask whether the rapporteur does not recognise that it does not know what it will mean for nature, what it will mean for the aquatic environment and our watercourses, that this 16-point plan is being implemented. In any case, this has been very clearly the message we have received from the Minister for Food. Does the Conservative People's Party believe that this is a responsible way of managing our nature and our species, which are already under pressure? It's a clear message from the scientists. And does the Conservative People's Party believe that this is in line with the generational contract?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193706	Well, no matter how many words the questioner uses, I think there is good reason and common sense in the 16-point plan. Well, we can just choose to tighten up. Let us then tighten up so much that we, in business, kill every farmer and let us move production to countries where we can pollute much more. Is it sound environmental policy, is it a generation contract? No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193732	There are no more brief comments, and I thank the rapporteur. The next in the series of rapporteurs is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008193752	Thank you, or qujanaq, as we say in Greenlandic. I am delighted to be one of the North Atlantic mandates that begins by speaking here, just as I am delighted as a new member of parliament to share in presenting the visions and thoughts for the parliamentary year and for the next four years. My overall goal is primarily to produce tangible results not only in Greenland, but also for Greenlanders in Denmark. And I have prepared a work programme with the title "Growth, well-being and a place in the world community" which describes what kind of things I would like to do. I think it is important to remember that we are part of a community of kingdoms, stressing that it is a community and that it helps each other. The introduction to the Self-Government Act describes this precisely as a premise for Greenland's Self-Government. We should therefore have a common desire to strengthen the Kingdom community and strengthen Greenlandic society in general. It therefore also means that it is legal to interfere in the debate on the Kingdom Community. We also have a joint task here in Things to lift, strengthen and maintain those areas in Greenland that are still a Danish responsibility. We are discussing legislation here in Things which concerns people and which affects life in Greenland. We need to strengthen that work and we need to prioritise it. That is why I am also pleased that the Prime Minister has been responsive when we spoke during meetings prior to the formation of the government. Much of this is also reflected in the government's part about the Kingdom community. I look forward very much to working with the members of the Folketing. I have already met with a great many people and especially with those who work with Greenland. Many people here have gone into politics to make a difference, and that applies to me too. I think this is best done by a broad, constructive and open cooperation here in the Folketing across the parties. A clear prerequisite for community and cooperation is trust, respect and credibility. This is true in all life's relations, including in the relationship between Greenland and Denmark. Former Greenlandic governments' somewhat harsh rhetoric has put the Kingdom community to the test. We must, of course, be able to debate and criticise each other together if there is something to come for, but it is also important to emphasise that there are many of us who believe that the Kingdom is part of our history, as much as it is part of today's Greenland. One might then wish that there was a greater knowledge of the Kingdom community, also in Denmark. I am in favour of a line which is not just about criticising and we are demanding, but is about us entering constructive, pragmatic and solution-oriented into a cooperation in which we together find solutions for the benefit of our community. I want Greenland to take co-responsibility and to come up with concrete proposals for solutions. Inuit Ataqatigiit's goal for Greenland is political independence in the long term. This must be done on a realistic basis: whether we are politically and economically ready for independence in my lifetime, time must show. Here and now we in Greenland are faced with a wide range of social and educational challenges for which we ourselves must solve and for which we are responsible. If we do not solve these problems, we will end up standing as observers for a development in our own country. Education is thus one of the most important stepping stones towards healthy development and a strong foundation for Greenland's future. The key to Greenland's future lies in our country's most important raw material - our children and young people. We must ensure that more young people are kept in education and that training is completed. Last month I gathered with two student organisations, Avalak and ILI ILI, more than 70 participants here at Christiansborg, where the young people of the future and Greenland's business community discussed the visions for Greenland. We will repeat this success in 2016 in Greenland. It is also my plan to invite Greenlandic students and student counsellors to a round table on the challenges facing Greenlandic students because they are hit twice by the Danish study reform, which they are also part of, but which is also a difficult cultural transition. Greenland is in the midst of an economic crisis which certainly seems to continue and increase in strength in the coming years. The reforms do not go far enough after Inuit Ataqatigiits and the Economic Council's assessment. This requires action, and it requires political courage, and it must help to ensure that we move wholeheartedly and strengthened out on the other side of the crisis. Greenland must be an attractive country to invest in. Together we must promote the many potentials that Greenland has. We have a common interest and a shared responsibility in investing in the development of Greenlandic society. There must be growth in order for us to be able to afford welfare. We have heard that many times. Therefore, I would also like us to establish a Greenlandic-Danish investment fund to develop a more diversified business community in Greenland. We need to raise the area of justice and welfare to an up-to-date and more dignified level. We have legislation which dates back to the 1960s and which is still in force; it holds Greenland back. We must ensure better conditions in terms of retention in settlements, together with the municipal officers who are responsible for it. We must have Greenlanders included in Denmark, as the government said, but it must also be implemented in practice, so that it does not just stay with the fine words. Greenlanders in Denmark are Danish citizens, but are not always treated as such. Over the past year, there has been a lot of focus on the Arctic. Greenland plays a really central role in the Arctic, which is why we also have to take an interest in the Arctic from here. We must take advantage of this momentum and interest in restoring together the international interest in Greenland. Climate change has a direct impact on us. We see the consequences of climate change on a daily basis, which is why Greenland should also be considered in COP21 in Paris later this year. Greenland must be regarded as an international player, and all that concerns us should be involved in, including in the case of the base contract at Thule Air Base, a case that we in Inuit Ataqatigiits believe should be dealt with by evaluating the defence agreement in order to see if it should be renegotiated. We must be involved in foreign policy work. Inatsisartut must be fully involved as a parliament on the basis of a principle of co-existence, which does not always happen today. My overall goal is that here in the Folketing we will have some tangible results, so that the private woman and private man, or Benigne and Sakaeus, as we call it, can also feel that it makes a difference. I will certainly work hard on that for the years to come. I wish everyone a very good parliamentary year and a very good working spirit I am open to a broad collaboration that benefits the Kingdom community, so everyone with the same purpose is welcome to the heart. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194553	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are two Members who have asked for brief comments, and the first is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194600	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very exciting speech. Something that we are also concerned with in the Alternative is of course to look at how we can develop the Kingdom community and perhaps create a more modern version of it. So, first of all, I would like to ask a little more questions about something that I know the rapporteur's party has been concerned about: all this preparatory work in the Constitution. Is this something that the rapporteur can tell us a little more about?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194633	Thank you very much for the question. I think it is very important that the preparatory work for the Constitution takes place in Greenland and that it is the people of Greenland who, of course, have to live with the new constitution in the long term who are taking part in this discussion. But I also think it is important for us here in the Folketing and in the Kingdom Community to deal with this and talk about what the Kingdom Community should look like in the future. I would really like us to talk visions of a modern kingdom community, and that we dared to interfere a little more in each other's affairs, because we are part of this community. So I think it is very positive that the Greenland Committee has begun to address this debate, but I also think it is important to say that one should not be afraid to talk about the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194721	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194723	Thank you. At least I promise you, we're not afraid of touch. Does the rapporteur see that this work on vision for a modern kingdom community is something that can take place throughout the whole Kingdom community, i.e. in parallel in Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands? What are the thoughts of the rapporteur's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194748	I think it is really important that the talk starts in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands respectively. I think it is important that we start talking about the visions for Greenland. We are facing these challenges, and they are really taking up a lot right now, but we also need to think long-term about ensuring Greenland's future and talk about what the Kingdom community will look like in the future. I think that there is strong cohesion between Greenland and Denmark, and I think that there will also be in the future. So it could be really interesting to talk about how that cohesion should be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194827	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194832	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur for a strong and visionary speech. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I am very pleased that we have four North Atlantic mandates, all of which are on the red side. Unfortunately, we cannot deliver such a clear and strong team from Denmark. I am very much looking forward to working with all the North Atlantic mandates. I would like to thank you for the courageous reflections on independence and the preparation of the Constitution. I fully agree, and the Enhedslisten will fully support all steps that you will take towards independence. I would like to hear something more about the most serious problem that I think there is in Greenland at the moment, and that is the social situation. Will the rapporteur clarify what she thinks about solving the social problems, which are both major and rather serious?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194930	I'm gonna have to get back in line with sir. Christian Juhl. We are Des in the Parliamentary Chamber, and that also applies to Mr. Christian Juhl. I shall now give the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008194944	I will start a completely different place and say that we are less than 56,000 people in Greenland, and we need to look back more than 20 years to see that we have been so few people in Greenland. I think that is quite thought-provoking. We know that there are a number of social problems for us at home, but also for Greenlanders in Denmark. I think we need to talk more about that. I think it may sometimes tend to be a bit of a taboo, that is how it is. However, we have seen an SFI report prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs not so long ago, which stressed that there are a great many Greenlanders in Denmark who have social problems and who do not always get help. One of the things that has been discussed in Greenland is whether refugees or people who move to Denmark, who are not Danish citizens, really get better help than the help you get when you come as Greenlander to Denmark. That is why I also think we need to stick to the fact that we are Danish citizens. We need to be included. It's not doing well enough today. We know that there are some particular challenges and that it is a special group that needs a special effort. So I would like to see a strengthened social effort for Greenlanders in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008195101	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008195102	Thank you. Oh, how would I like us to have rules that were easier to remember? With regard to the social challenges, I also think that in Greenland there are also problems in the small settlements where it is difficult to get out. Is it possible for self-government to do more about this and resolve some of the serious problems, such as: Is out on the east coast?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008195132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008195133	No doubt there is. I think it is early action, prevention and a better balance between treatment and prevention, where today we are far too late. We have a wide range of challenges, including: in relation to sexual abuse of children, and although these are some things that we may be a little tired of talking about, I do not think we can be familiar with our children that we are not talking about those problems. Because if we don't talk about them and focus on them, it's also hard to solve them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008195203	I thank the rapporteur and I would ask Mrs Aleqa Hammond to come up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008195226	Dear all. Denmark has a new government. Greenland has the same thing. In this way we are all faced with a very exciting time, a different political reality than we did just six months ago. In Siumut we want to respond positively and proactively to this new reality. At the same time, I would also like to thank you for the wonderful reception I have received here among my colleagues in the Danish Parliament. And I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate both the government and the Bureau on the election and to express my party's wish for good cooperation over the coming years, as do all my fellow Members in this Chamber. Although I am elected for Siumut and, according to the Constitution, everyone else in this thing is only responsible to myself and the voters who voted in me, I would like to make it clear that I consider myself a representative of the people, the voters, and the whole coalition which today governs the Greenlandic Self-Government. It will be my approach to the work of this Parliament that I work here in accordance with the wishes of the Greenlandic Government regarding cooperation with Denmark. I'm really looking forward to that work. After all, there are still a number of areas where cooperation with Denmark is absolutely essential for Greenland to function optimally under the Self-Government. All areas which have not yet been taken over by the Self-Government and which, as you know, are 32 different areas of administration that can be taken over are Danish responsibility and our common area of responsibility. These are areas where decisions are taken here in the Folketing, but the results are realised in Greenland. These are areas that we must ensure together are constantly up to date and in line with the level that the same areas benefit from being on in Denmark. I am pleased that the government's basis says that the judiciary must be at the same level as in Denmark. For legal certainty in Greenland today is very weak and deserves to be prioritised on an equal footing with all the other parts of the Kingdom community. For some, the areas we need to prepare for transfer to the Self-Government in the next few years are so that the transfer process can be a fair transfer in terms of condition, both for Denmark and for Greenland. Until these areas are transferred, they are under the control of the Danish Parliament, and it would therefore be perfectly legitimate and beneficial if we had a more lively debate on these issues in the Danish Parliament in future. I believe that, as responsible politicians in the Kingdom Community, we must have positions in order to act as partners. Since the Self-Government was introduced, with few exceptions, there has been an almost clouded approach from many of this Things politicians to the Kingdom community and its future. But as long as there is Danish responsibility involved in the topics, Danish interference is quite okay. That should be self-evident. Of course, the same is true of the other way round. As long as there is Greenlandic responsibility for Danish foreign policy and defence policy, there must be full right from Greenland's politicians to interfere in how the Danish government is developing in these areas. This succeeded well in the time of the previous government, and I hope that the cooperation we developed on areas such as preparedness, Arctic policy, whaling, EU directives on seals and similar matters can continue with the new government. The Arctic is on the world agenda, and climate change is the hot topic. I noticed that the Prime Minister did not mention climate in his speech. Greenland is the Arctic part of the Danish state and would like to see an active Arctic strategy for the benefit of both Denmark and Greenland. Together, we can be a strong Arctic nation. For there is a need for improved action in a number of areas to be taken into account by the whole Kingdom community. Above all, we need to work on long-term solutions in these areas. The many temporary solutions that we have seen create a great deal of uncertainty, both for the Kingdom community and also outside the Kingdom community. We need the Greenlandic police to be provided with the means needed to carry out their tasks according to the same standard used in Denmark and in accordance with Greenlandic reality. We need the preparedness around our country to be regularly brought up to date with the situation that the melting ice brings along our coasts. We need the military aircraft that are part of the Danish preparedness to actually be used on our coasts for sea rescue and patrolling and what follows. We need an Arctic policy in the Kingdom Community that is quite different from the strategy we are working on today in terms of pro-activeness and economic support. We need a permanent arrangement to address the many issues we face and the socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark are experiencing. As Danish citizens, as we are, many of our compatriots, who have chosen to settle in Denmark, with a lack of educational background and with a lack of language skills, often have no access to Danish education, an introduction to the Danish system and so on, because this is not offered to Danish citizens, as is done to foreigners. I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister literally says that Denmark must be united socially and culturally as well as economically. I look forward to working together on this fine announcement which, hopefully, will also benefit the vulnerable Greenlanders here in Denmark socially. All these topics and a number of others are areas that we will continue to work on here in the Things. And with both the Arctic statement and the financial law negotiations just around the corner, I hope we can get started quickly. My aim is to help ensure that we help to find a good solution for the benefit of the whole Kingdom community and all the citizens of the Kingdom community. This does not mean that we need to turn off any dream of the future outside the Kingdom community or any vision of an even better kingdom community in the future. In Siumut we still have the dream that one day the Greenlandic people will have the opportunity to represent themselves in the world as self-employed or as a people, as a clue, far, far better than we do today. It's about feeling a freedom that we don't have today and that we really want to see realised in a close collaboration with Denmark. These are simple things which are of great importance to the people of Greenland and to the mentality of Greenland. It could, for example, be done. be able to enter the Olympics under their own flag, to negotiate the whale quotas in the IWC, to demand insight into military agreements. It is about working together based on trust and respect for each other's competences and experiences and using each other for the benefit of the case. I have said this before from Siumut, and I will continue to say it until everyone understands that the combination of the dream of independence for the Greenlandic people and the continuing close relationship with Denmark can be called the Free Association. It is about finding a dignified future in common understanding and equality. The Free Association which works well between, for example, New Zealand and Cook Islands, the Netherlands and the Antilles is the model of independence that Siumut works for a preparatory work and an input that we can all contribute to. I look forward to discussing it and having a dialogue about the Kingdom Community and the dynamics of the Kingdom Community. I hope it will be understood and appreciated under this government so that we can bring forward the positive model as a common goal and joint responsibility and once and for all ensure that we face a future that the Kingdom community can be proud of, both as a country and as a people. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200055	Then I give the floor to Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200058	Thank you. And thank you for a good speech. I think that there were a lot of exciting things that you might want to discuss. We have to deal with that in committee. There are two things I would like to ask. One concerns the area of justice, which the rapporteur mentioned. What things can Greenland and what things can Denmark help to improve quite concretely, not just in general because we talk about the area of justice so that it gets better and that it gets the same standard as in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200134	The judiciary is a very important area in Greenland, and we have pointed out from Greenland in all the years we have been sitting in the Danish Parliament that it is very impoverished in relation to the rest of Denmark. At any rate, I know that, in preparing the police settlement, we have just had a meeting with Greenland's police chief here in Denmark, together with the Minister for Justice, where it was explained that the standard in Greenland is simply under all criticism. There are police stations, which are more or less shaky; 14 out of 60 settlements are without municipal bailiffs, i.e. the representative of the court. Legal certainty in Greenland is very weak, and it also means that the judiciary on all sides is an area whose problems we can no longer save ourselves from. We need to do something to guarantee legal certainty for all the citizens of the Kingdom, including those in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200231	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200233	Thank you. The second question is about Thule. After all, there has been an extension of 1⁄2 years which ensures the work and revenue arising from the service agreement. What is the rapporteur's proposal for a solution to this problem, and how can the Danish Parliament help to find that solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200254	I do not think that Greenland and Denmark in general as such disagree with each other on how this should be resolved. I believe that Greenland and Denmark both agree that the service contract should belong to a Greenlandic company, and if that is not possible, it must be a company within the Danish Kingdom Community. Having said that, I also believe that what we have been through now, and as things stand, namely that the service contract belonged to someone outside the Kingdom community, means that there are many areas that we should all be aware of. The whole process, the procedure and the supply situation are also in themselves under all criticism, and that is why we must all learn from it here, by looking at the tender model again in the future and ensuring that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200344	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200346	Thank you very much. During Parliament's recent visit to Greenland we saw how there is a problem about the courts where there has been a build-up of cases in recent years that we are now trying to remedy. Does the rapporteur have a proposal on how to strengthen Greenland's capacity building to deal with parts of this problem themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200413	I think it is very important that we in Greenland regard it as an overall solution in terms of upgrading the Greenland judicial system. We have worked very well with Denmark in connection with the work of the Legal Service Commission, which lasted for as long as 10 years, and from which a number of recommendations came, all of which pointed to concrete solutions for how the Greenlandic judicial system could reach a level that we can all be satisfied with. That was really good. But now it has been so long before something has actually been brought forward and time passes, and it is becoming obsolete over time. Therefore, it is important that we run strongly to ensure that we meet the objectives we have set together, Greenland and Denmark. The fight against fraud is due to the fact that cases are picking up because people cannot keep up with cases and there are too few employees. The fight against the pile itself shows that there are cases that accumulate and that we have to do something. We have had temporary establishments because the waiting list of the people who have been sentenced and cannot enter the institutions has made it necessary to find temporary solutions. It is the treatment of symptoms of something that requires us to look better in this area if we are to help give a boost that will something and that is worthy of Danish citizens. I have high expectations of the government. The government's basis states that the area of justice in Greenland must be at the same level as in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200539	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200540	I would just like to say further that I am glad that we are seeing the same thing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200547	I would also like to say that the area of justice is an area which, fortunately, we see in the committee also considers very important, which is why we are going to Greenland as soon as possible. It is always very good to see things with your own eyes, because it may seem very distant. The culture is very different, the language is different, Greenland is on a completely different continent. But when you've been up there yourself, most people are surprised to see that it's actually an area that Denmark can't do anything about other than by acting and by doing something to ensure that all citizens of the Kingdom have a dignified legal certainty and a dignified trial if it gets there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200627	No one else has asked for short remarks, so I thank the rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008200647	Thank you, Madam President. Gott kvald góðu landmenn and kvinnur members of the Folketing. Thank you for the kind reception I've been given. I think it is great when the Danish media refer to the opening of the Folketing as a celebration of the people's freedom and democracy in Denmark. It is a tribute for which I have great respect. But it is with a certain ambivalence that I take the floor of the Danish Parliament for the first time when, as a representative of Tjóðveldi, I am convinced that the Faroe Islands should make decisions and that Danes should make decisions on behalf of Denmark. However, as long as the Faroe Islands elect members of the Folketing, I think it is important for this Parliament also to hear the views of those who have the will to have an independent Faroe Islands • at least in matters relating to our country. For me, it was a rather special experience to walk up the stairs to the Parliamentary Hall, which leads up to the heart of Danish democracy. These stairs were carved out of Faroese basalt at a stonemasonry in Rættará í Tórshavn 100 years ago by my ancestors. It can literally be said that my family's contribution to the Danish people's rule is thus chiseled in stone and still makes the same use as when they were built. Jákup Andrias Arge was also called Jampan, responsible for this work with his brothers, one of whom was my great-grandfather, Óla Smið. These gentlemen were made of a special fabric. Jákup Andrias was responsible for the construction of a number of iconic buildings, and he was uncompromising in his struggle to establish an industry based on exploiting Faroese stone as building material. But with the primitive tools of the day, the cost could be great. He lost several fingers on his left hand when a gunpowder exploded in his hands. He was blinded in one eye when a stone splint bore himself into the eye. And once the doctor at the hospital had to call Jákup Andrias' brother, who was a watchmaker, to get the finest tools available in the Faroe Islands, to piece his jaws and cheekbones together after a clash with a rock block. When he was 60 years old, a tons of stone block hit his foot and cut it off. With only one hand, one eye and one foot, he had to reluctantly give up his operational career as a stonemason, but sufficient material was still in him for him to be employed in Denmark as supervisor of the harbour building in the City of Copenhagen. Jákup Andrias Arge deserves to be honored posthumously. He would appreciate that the Danish people's government respected the Faroese people's desire to adopt a Faroese constitution. I am therefore tempted to propose to the members of the Folketing to honour his memory by supporting the Faroese people in our efforts to build the remaining stairstones, so that we can practise free Faroese democracy based on our own constitution, and it is, if I may say so, right on the steps. In the elections to the Faroese Laying on 1 September, the opposition won a majority and formed a new government consisting of three parties. It is the independence party Tjóðveldi, the liberal Framsókn and the socialist Javnaðarflokkurin. The Faroese gross domestic product has grown considerably in recent years, but there has been a continuing deficit in the Finance Act, and the increase in value has not fallen to the broad crowd of citizens. That is why the new coalition intends to take action to spread economic progress more evenly so that it benefits the whole population. The government has set itself the task of turning the deficit of the Finance Act into a surplus in the first place and of making the necessary reforms to achieve economic sustainability, including much-needed fisheries reform, pension reform and tax reform. The national government also aims to make the Faroese economy self-sustaining and less dependent on block grants from Denmark. Therefore, the coalition has decided to terminate the price regulation of the block grant from Denmark and wants to reduce it further when achieving stable profits on the Faroese Finance Act. The coalition has also put a referendum on a common constitution on the programme in 2017. Political negotiations within the Faroe Islands on the constitution have been under way for a long time. Historically, we have developed politically, culturally and economically on our own terms in our own country in the North Atlantic. This will be reflected in the new constitution. It is therefore to be expected that it will include, among other things: our democratic institutions, our culture, our language, our flag and the right to exploit the resources of the sea. In a sense of international law, the Faroese are a nation with the full right to determine its own affairs. The Faroese people's right to self-determination will therefore be an entirely natural part of the constitution, where it is found that no power is over or beside the decisions of the Faroese people. A Faroese constitution is not in itself a declaration of secession. There needs to be a separate referendum to clarify this issue of Faroese state formation, and such a referendum does not include the new Home Rule Government in the programme. But otherwise the Danish Government has repeatedly stated that it will respect the outcome of such a vote when it comes. Therefore, the right of self-determination in a Faroese constitution should not lead to any appeal from Denmark. The coalition parties in the national government have different views as regards changes in constitutional relations between the Faroe Islands and Denmark. The basis of the coalition therefore reflects a pragmatic approach to economic, social, cultural and constitutional conditions. As regards the repatriation of responsibilities, it is agreed to take over the territory of foreigners, airspace and personal, family and inheritance during the parliamentary term until 2019. The negotiations on repatriation will of course take place between the relevant Faroese and Danish ministries. The other day I was talking to my 97-year-old mother, who voted in favour of secession on 14 September 1946 when the Faroes voted in a referendum on the future position of the Faroe Islands in the kingdom. The result was a narrow majority for secession. She is not alone in the view that it was wrong that Denmark did not respect the election result at the time. Instead, we got the 1948 Home Rule Act. In Tjóðveldi we believe that the Home Rule Act, with its 67 years on the back, is now ready to retire. We need a new construction based on equal countries, which paves the way for the Faroe Islands to participate in international relations on an equal footing with other countries. The relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands has become more complex since Denmark has transferred part of its sovereignty to the EU, of which the Faroe Islands are not a member. The conflicting interests were very clearly drawn up in the mackerel dispute a short time ago when Denmark closed all its ports on orders from the EU and refused all Faroese pelagic exports access to Denmark. It was undoubtedly painful for Denmark to implement this blockade, but it did not change the fact that loyalty to the EU was stronger than to the Faroe Islands. Nor did it change the fact that the Faroe Islands only had access to defend their interests internationally through a country which in this case was part of our confrontational counterpart. That is the reality to which we in the Faroe Islands must relate. We are the only ones who have the Faroe Islands as their first priority. Our relationship with Denmark and the Danish people is of great importance, but cannot overshadow the consideration of our own country. First of all, we have a duty to ensure that present and future generations have the best opportunities to build up a democratic welfare society. We do this best on the basis of a self-sustaining economy and a modern constitution that offers maximum scope for action. Having said that, I appreciate the government's initiative to identify border barriers in the national community and in the Nordic region and that the government will cooperate in resolving them. I have also noted that the Prime Minister, in his opening speech and the government in his government base, recognises that a new constitution is being worked on in the Faroe Islands and that dialogue and cooperation with the new Faroese Government are being established. I have no doubt that we will have constructive cooperation on the repatriation of areas of law, and I am pleased that the government understands that we are working with the Faroese Constitution. For us, it is crucial that the Faroese self-determination be cut into stone. And I would also like to wish Denmark success in the football match against Portugal this evening. I myself will follow the fight between Hungary and the Faroe Islands in Budapest. I bet it's gonna be entertaining, 'cause they're fighting well, the vicious guys from the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008201704	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008201709	Thank you. First of all, I would like to welcome Mr. Magni Arge in the Folketing, and I would like to congratulate you on your election. It seems as if it will be an exciting period to work with the Faroe Islands, and I think we will be busy in the Faroes Committee when we are discussing both the transfer of one and the other and the third of the areas to the Faroe Islands. I think it is a good and sensible agreement that we have, namely that the North Atlantic countries can pull things home in the order and pace they want. I would say that it has been an interesting year, and Mr. After all, Magni Arge himself mentioned the conflict between the EU and the Faroe Islands, which we have discussed a great deal, also in this Chamber. I was embarrassed to see that Danes were to exclude people from the community, removing their right to return their fish in Danish ports. This was embarrassing, and it shows that we have not always made the right choice in terms of the EU's sovereignty over Danish legislation. I'd like to hear a little more about those areas. How, for example, do you want to do this? handle the alien area and even control your airspace area when you want those areas home?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008201831	I give the floor to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008201834	Thank you. Yes, it's the authorities in the Faroe Islands who have to deal with these cases and handle the administrative process of taking them over, so with more information than I have. But I can say that this has been discussed about the area of foreigners, and we know that there are not only advantages in having to take over the administration of this. In many cases we have many problems in getting family reunifications and getting people of foreign origin to the Faroe Islands, what we really need, because they have ended up in a bureaucratic process in Denmark that is almost impossible to get through. And that's very inappropriate. On the other hand, it must also be said that the current government sees it as such that we also have to take a position on how we participate in the work that has to be done in Europe to welcome refugees. However, it is not a very easy matter to sit in a society with as few people as we are, we are almost 50,000, in fact 49,000, and that is the highest number we have ever been. However, we are actually looking at how to do it in Iceland, for example, and would like to see whether we can transfer some of the experience we have from there so that it can be done in a controlled way. As far as airspace is concerned, it is a discussion that will probably be held with the Ministry of Transport. And I am convinced that the Danish side will say that this is an impossible matter, but we have shown for so many years that the impossible can also be made possible, just the will to find the right political solutions is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008202008	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008202010	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the answers and I would like to say good luck, not least with your work on a new constitution. It will be really exciting to see how it is arranged. I hope that we can still have good and equal cooperation in the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008202028	I'm sure we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008202043	Then I give the floor to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008202047	Thank you for that, and congratulations to sir. Magni Arge. Now we both come from the ruling parties in the Faroe Islands, so there will be some overlap, I think. When do you expect to have a government in place? I asked the future Prime Minister at our meeting just after the June elections. I don't know, he answered and shook his head. It's not easy this. But then he looked directly at me and said: On the other hand, the work has to be done, and I have a clear deadline, because in a few days I have to go up to the Faroe Islands and cut sheep. The Prime Minister achieved both his goals. He became prime minister, and he was probably up in the mountain, like the village of Gjógv on the north Østerø, and got his sheep cut. Congratulations on both. It is usually said that God lightens the air for the cut sheep, but there is also a need for God to lighten the air for the new government. So it is not much wool on its body: 90 mandates, just enough to cope with a mild political climate. If there were just one wool tot less, one mandate less, it was not the blue, but the red sheep that had gained power. And it is a little special when you consider that the blue ones won in Denmark with 90 against 85 mandates. But the fact is that a blue election victory of 89 to 86 would have sent the Reds into government because the four North Atlantics would have lifted the Reds to 90. It would of course be exciting for us North Atlantics if we had ended up as king-makers of the kingdom, but the hand on the heart: For the Danish people's government it would be problematic. Our constituents do not pay taxes in Denmark, and we are elected in this House on a completely different basis from all the others. After all, the debate on limiting Scots' rights in Parliament has flared up in England, and such a result would undoubtedly have raised the same debate in Denmark. But now it was so that those who won the election fairly clearly also just won power. And we, the four loose missiles of the Things, you might say, remain in full possession of rights. I will use these in a responsible way, of course, and I hope that in any event we can have the good dialogue on the situation of the Kingdom Community, which is traditional and which the Prime Minister also set out in his speech on Tuesday. As you know, a new government has arrived in the Faroe Islands. In addition to the main objectives of fisheries reform, tax reform and pension reform, the ambition is to take over three areas of responsibility from Denmark: the right to property, family and inheritance, airspace and the territory of foreigners. The first is relatively simple, the next is more demanding and the third is quite complicated, not least because the status of the Faroe Islands in Schengen becomes part of the matter. But of course all the takeovers require Danish participation and goodwill. Then the new government, as Magni Arge said, has also set out to complete the work on the Faroese Constitution. This requires understanding between the two parties, which is why I welcome the Prime Minister's statements on this subject. I was an international observer in Catalonia when the country voted for the local parliament on 27 September. It was an election which was proclaimed by the separatist parties in Catalonia as a referendum on secession from Spain. It has been exciting to follow developments in Catalonia the last year and to be there last Sunday was fascinating. It was also to follow the debate up to the referendum in Scotland last year. After all, there are many states in Europe that have several nations within their borders. We can mention Spain, Great Britain, France, Belgium and Denmark. And in such a construction there is always a seeds of conflict, because the idea that each nation should have its own state is deeply within us and is also implicit in the very concept of nation state. That is why it takes good political action to make it work so that all nations feel that they have ownership of the state apparatus. Studying how others do it is perspectives, and it is also uplifting. Because it's actually where it's best done. When I talk to politicians from other so-called stateless nations about our arrangement, they stand quite gloomy. Do you really have your own tax system? Is your economy and your public investment really purely Faroese affairs? Is oil exploration your case? Does Denmark not legislate at all in internal conditions in the Faroe Islands? Can you stand outside the EU even if Denmark is within? Do you negotiate with other countries without Danish interference? Do you represent yourselves in international sports, except the Olympics? Yes, we do, while at the same time we are in a close community with Denmark, and it is worth more than we pay attention to daily. The Faroe Islands have almost everything that Catalans and Scots think they can only achieve through secession, and therefore the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands is increasingly being drawn forward as a model for how to make things work when one state houses several nations. Our relationship is not perfect there have been conflicting interests, as Magni Arge also mentioned, but the relationship wins when compared to other relationships. And that is because the relationship is not governed by ideological dogmas or rigid legal provisions, but by dialogue and pragmatic solutions to specific challenges. An example of the past summer is the police's efforts to enforce the law against the infamous thugs from the cash machine Sea Shepherd. Through thousands of e-mails, the members of the Folketing have experienced a campaign from this organisation. However, in the case of the Faroe Islands, these are not just e-mails. The Sea Shepherds are there, standing all over their black clothes with the white skulls. Their stated aim is to break the law, and they do so when they get the chance The law in question, the law of laughing catch, is the Faroese • it is not Danish. Grinder killing is illegal in Denmark and in the EU. But the police are common to the whole realm, and its operation is regulated by Danish laws. Nevertheless, the Danish police and judicial system use time, material and manpower to enforce the law in the Faroe Islands. This is an example of the fact that although the Kingdom Community is a conglomerate, i.e. a composition of very unequal parts, it works. However, matters such as this are causing tension, and that is why the Faroese Committee, of which I am chairman, will organise a hearing on the many problems of laughing catch in the National Assembly on 18 November. Although, in my opinion, the Commonwealth is doing well now, it is no guarantee that it will be well in a year's time. The system is not static, there are always new challenges, and therefore, during the four-year period of the new government, dialogue, understanding and pragmatism will also be needed on both sides. Denmark's supposed lifting of the legal reservation in the European Union can, for example, Easily lead to new arrangements between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. And if the new government in the Faroe Islands succeeds in agreeing on this Constitution, it will also require something from us. On the Faroese side, the constitutional provisions that apply today must of course be recognised and respected; on the Danish side there will be a need for recognition that there is room for a Faroese constitution within the framework of the Kingdom of Denmark, because the Basic Law of Denmark does not say anything about either the Kingdom of Denmark or about internal relations in the Faroe Islands. It is also important that we look at reality in this context and not just at the formal provisions of the Constitution. There is no agreement between the two. The Danish constitution does not allow any Faroese legislative power, any Faroese tax collection or Faroese negotiations with other countries. And when Danish prime ministers say over and over again that if the Faroe Islands want to leave the Kingdom, it is the Faroe Islands' own business, they do not say it either, because the constitution allows it, because it does not. If the Danish constitution were to be followed literally, it would mean the cancellation of the home government, as we know it. One of the main reasons why everything has gone into a stalemate in Catalonia is that instead of talking about what is politically most sensible, we are trying to put certain debates in legal boxes. If instead we pull everything out into the light and find solutions in open dialogue, then God will lighten the air for the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands in the coming years in the same way as he softened the air for the sheep that the Prime Minister cut on Østerø after he formed his government in June. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203020	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. It's gotta be sir. Christian Juhl. We need to check it out. It's Henrik Brodersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203033	Thank you. Now it was good enough for the previous rapporteur that I pressed in, and the former President must have overlooked that, but I am sure that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale has a position on what I am about to ask. After all, there are often and often some conflicts, especially between the Faroe Islands and the European Union. You are not part of the European Union, and we can sometimes envy you by the Danish People's Party. But I am thinking of the very baroque situation in which Denmark sat on one side of the table and the Faroese on the other in the context of the conflict over your fishing. I think: how does the Latting and the whole Faroese people feel about negotiations about the European Union and the things that concern you, that is to say, entering their markets, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203136	Thank you. I would just like to say to the questioner that we must try not to press charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203143	Thank you. Thank you for the question. Having better access to the EU market is, of course, a very important matter for the new local government. Now we are an export nation. We export to the whole world, but just as far as the EU market is concerned, we only have access for manufactured products almost only. That is why one of our main objectives is to get a new agreement so that we can have better access also for processed products. When it comes to the second case, where Denmark and the Faroe Islands ended up on separate sides, I see it as a consequence of the fact that, through the understanding, the pragmatic solution that has been found, we have developed in different directions. Denmark joined the EEC in 1973 and the Faroe Islands are outside, and that is why we have developed into two different states in many areas. Many times the Faroe Islands and Denmark are counterparts in negotiations, and then we got an extreme situation where Denmark, together with the EU, boycotted the Faroe Islands. But it was a consequence of the good things, I think, that even if you are in a community, you have been allowed to develop in different directions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203251	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203256	I wonder whether the rapporteur has any proposals for solutions on how better to pull the same hammer, if I may say understood in that way, that there are, of course, things that we clearly agree on, but also some things that divide the roads. Here again I am thinking of relations with the European Union. Is there anywhere where you could have some better forms of cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203328	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203329	It's kind of hard. In fact, it is one of the biggest challenges we have in the future that Denmark is becoming more and more integrated into the European Union, and that is why it is natural and necessary, I think, that we are growing in different directions. We are developing our own systems, the European Union is many times our counterpart, while Denmark becomes an integral part of the European Union. And that means that in this area, when it comes to differences in trade policy and in part in foreign policy, we are growing in each direction. We can also take the example of exports to Russia, where Denmark is boycotted when it comes to food, and the Faroe Islands are not boycotted. It's hard to make it stick together. We must try to make the Kingdom community so inclusive, I believe, that we are allowed to pursue our interests while Denmark meets its obligations in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203414	Thank you. And then it's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203419	Thank you. My question is a little in the same direction. There have been many exciting things in the Faroe Islands, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the challenging and exciting cooperation we have had while Mr. Sjúrður Skaale has been in the Folketing. I'm glad he's been re-elected. What this is about is the legal reservation on which we will be voting on 3 December. And there I would like to know what the consequences are for the Faroe Islands, and how do the Faroes view this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203454	Thank you. It is, in fact, a fairly great challenge that we are facing. Because if Denmark repeals the legal reservation, Denmark will move cases common to the whole Kingdom and also to the Faroe Islands to the EU, even though the Faroe Islands are outside the EU. And it will therefore be a fairly great challenge to solve it. I do not think Denmark is entitled to do so, and that is why other solutions need to be found. As I see it, there are two options. Either the Faroe Islands take over the respective territories, or Denmark, or the Folketing, legislates on behalf of the Faroe Islands. So if you send everything to the EU, including what concerns the Faroe Islands, then the Folketing will become a legislative power in the Faroe Islands. Then you have to find a system where you say that you then legislate at the request of the Faroese side. Then the Latting may adopt something or wish something, but because the formal power lies in Copenhagen in the Folketing, the Folketing may make a law that applies only to the Faroe Islands. It's gonna be a little complicated, but that's how it's gonna have to be done. The simplest thing, of course, is to take it over.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203606	Sir. Christian Juhl for round two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203608	Thank you. Well, that sounds interesting, but it's pretty simple. Denmark will then surrender the power to decide on parts of our legal policy to the European Union, and then they can determine our policy, and then we can do as the European Union and determine the policy of the Faroe Islands. I think that is an additional argument for me to vote 'no'. I would like to know whether the government has negotiated or at least held meetings with the Faroe Islands on this particular problem and clarified matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203643	I've asked the government questions about it and actually got an answer early this morning. And there you say that it will be that way that you see it as a challenge, but you find the solutions ad hoc. When there is a case that Denmark may today legislate on behalf of the Faroe Islands and sends to the European Union, then you will find yourself in a situation where you say: what do you do? And, as I said before, either you negotiate with the Faroe Islands, where the Faroe Islands take over it, or you become a legislative power which only has legislation concerning the Faroe Islands. It's gonna be awkward, but that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203726	Thank you very much for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008203735	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. You get older, and I've actually been a member of this thing for 21 years. I have been thinking back and I simply cannot remember any more peaceful, harmonious, constructive opening debate than we have had here today. It has thus confirmed to me that, after the election campaign we have all been out in and the formation of government that has taken place, we are now all in the work clothes with nuances. It is to such an extent that the rapporteurs of the Social Democrats and the Left have dressed exactly the same work clothes here today and have congratulated each other on this during the course of the debate. Much more harmoniously, it can't be. Of course there are differences in politics, and I have been able to listen to them here today, and I can also make a contribution to trying to speak them more if there is a demand for it, but I will now first of all bear in mind the mildness that has been in the voting throughout the day. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, as new rapporteur for a new party, even used his speaking time to praise everyone and draw out a positive element from all parties. And after my own opening speech the other day, I had the quite cross-border experience of seeing a Social Democrat that was Mr. Jens Joel quoted in Politiken as saying something I cannot then repeat, because then I come in conflict with the Danish Parliament's rules, but it was with an omitted word: I managed to agree completely with Lars Løkke along the way. Yeah, the word I left out is spelled s-g-u. So it looks pretty good, and I also think it can be said that although we only have the opening debate here today, we have been going on for a long time for 100 days when I gave my opening statement and 102 days today. We've made a lot of progress. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale also managed to reverse the fact that I myself had the opportunity to be on the Faroe Islands and rock sheep. It's good to have a hard deadline, because then you get something out of hand. But we have actually achieved a great deal. We have implemented the housing job scheme, which is a great success and which is something that the families around Denmark have taken on a good contribution towards black work and a nice growth contribution in places where there is a little longer between the houses and out in the summerhouse areas. This has been done in a slightly alternative constellation consisting of the government, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the SF and the Alternative. We have taken immediate action in relation to the area of asylum with the parliamentary basis of the government. And the debate here today has also shown and demonstrated that more and more people agree that it actually matters what the conditions of residence are. At least I have taken note of that. It took a little while to get Mr. Morten Østergaard to admit that it was so, but the concession came then. And I have also noted in the public debate that Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen has also moved to that point in recent weeks, so that she is now talking about the fact that restrictions in the area of asylum play a significantly greater role than she had expected. We have achieved that too. We managed the act on the economy of the municipalities, also in a slightly alternative setting up with the government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Social Democratic Party. A few days ago, there was an agreement on tighter rules for the acquisition of citizenship with the parliamentary basis of the government and the social democracy. And the large relocation plan launched by the government, after which 3,900 state jobs are now being moved into 38 cities in 25 municipalities, I also note this in general. With all that achieved in 100 days, it's a very good promise for the assembly we've just started. And that is good because we have a high level of ambition. We want to do something more to create growth opportunities throughout the country. That is why we will shortly come up with a proposal for a liberalised law on plans, a proposal for an ambitious agricultural and food package. We would like to do something more to boost private employment. That is why, in the draft budget we have put forward, we are already involved in removing the advertising tax, removing NO x x. That promises everything well enough. So I'm actually left in a situation where I look at things more positively than when I got settled this morning. I know, of course, that there are nuances. Mrs Mette Frederiksen threw herself over a horse metaphor, and I have noted, in order to remain in it, that there are certain old trapes drawn by the stable during the day. There's been a shooting at the government. We cut down one place and the other and the third place, we have to understand. To that I would like to say that we have put forward a draft budget and invite negotiations starting tomorrow, starting with a check-up which is not a ritual dance on the spot, I would say to Mr. Morten Østergaard, but which is the obligation of any new government to make sure what the starting point really is. In this respect, one must only observe quite quietly, without pointing the finger at anyone, that the picture that was drawn in the election campaign now looks different, if one is to say it diplomatically. There are nuances when you look at the situation afterwards. With the post-summer economic assessment, unlike the one before the summer break, we would be beyond the limits of the European Union, the size of the structural deficit and we would be at the very edge of the current deficit. That is why we were just 3 billion. kr. beyond the edge that we've had to tighten up with. We have then had the ambition, which I think is sensible, because we had it when we were in opposition, and in my party we have the habit of thinking the same thing both before and after an election ■ to take steps back from the edge. For some of the problem has been that the previous government budgeted too much. So there are 5 billion. kr. less to make politics for than we both hoped and thought when we were in an election campaign. On this basis, we want to honour the promises we made to the elections: more money for health, a stronger police force, the possibility of growth throughout Denmark and a housing job scheme. And I am really glad that a broad majority in the Folketing supports much of it. I noticed today that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll said that the government he had now installed was • and I quote "a little good." Yeah, yeah. That is something, after all, big words in the mouth of a representative of the Liberal Alliance. I was also pleased to note that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has today identified areas which are also important to the government: health, the elderly, police. I can also hear that some of these issues are repeated by other rapporteurs and would therefore just like to express the hope that, in some of these key issues, we are in a position to land sensible, broad agreements. Of course, this has to be done on the basis of two things: firstly, a reasonably reproduced picture of what the government is proposing and not proposing. I have, for example. Today we had to pay attention to cutting back on the elderly and other things, and to that I have to say that we do not. For us, one of the pillars of our welfare society is the right to free and equal health. That is why we give priority to health with 2.4 billion. kr. kr. more than the old government came up with. That is why we give priority to the elderly area by a few billion over the next four years. So it is simply not right for someone in today's debate to say that we are not giving priority to these areas. Secondly, it is clear that the money must fit. I have listened to many pious wishes in the course of the day, and my call must just be to all the parties now invited to negotiations with the Minister for Finance, to clarify their priorities, their wishes and their financing. I am very pleased with the commitment that has been made today, first from Mrs Mette Frederiksen and later from Mr Metten. Benny Engelbrecht, that the largest opposition party is, of course, putting forward a financial bill, we ourselves had the habit of doing so when we were in opposition, that is, a coherent, well-thought-out bid as to what the Finance Act would look like if the Social Democratic Party had power as they have observed. I had to understand it's coming tomorrow. We look forward to this study in every detail. Because there is, of course, the connection that if you have to do more in one place, you have to do something less somewhere else. Despite everything that has been said here today, I fully acknowledge the government's priorities. Yes, we have chosen to spend less money on development aid, but at the same time we have achieved the objectives of the United Nations, which, incidentally, only one out of a total of five countries. Now we're number four in the world, and if we get through with our financial bill, I think we're number five. We can be proud of that. Yes, we have chosen to spend less money on research, but thus still meet the EU's objectives. And yes, we have chosen to make efficiency requirements for our education, but that is still at the top when we compare among the countries that invest most in education. That's the way things are. Of course we are allowed to criticise this, but then we must also offer precise proposals, and I do not think I have heard so much of that here today. If development aid is not to be reduced to the UN objective, then there is a shortfall of 2.3 billion. kr. If research expenditure is not to be adjusted to the EU target in 1%, there is a shortfall of 1.4 billion. kr. If we do not want to make the education and culture sector more effective in line with what we have put in other areas over the years, then there is a small billion missing. If we do not want to accept the agreement made with the municipalities on a re-priority contribution, in which the majority is then recycled in the municipalities, then there is a shortage of 0.5 billion. kr. And if you do not want to buy into any of the proposals that the government has put forward in our proposal, then there is a shortage of 6.7 billion. kr. And without financing them, you have to lower your ambitions. Now we're going to write October 8. The budget negotiations will start in earnest tomorrow. We still have the merit of seeing the opposition parties' proposals for a comprehensive Finance Act for next year, but I look forward, as I said, to seeing a bid from the Social Democrats in particular tomorrow. Then there have been a few other themes up today, which I also think I should address. There has been a discussion about the daily allowance, and that is no wonder, because that discussion has been there ever since the unemployment benefit reform was carried out. I said in my opening speech, and I also now admit that it was basically right to do the reform and the other reforms that we made. Without them, it would have been a completely different debate we had had here today. For without the reforms we made, 47 billion would have been missing. kr. to well-being. When Mr. Morten Østergaard now, like attacking the level of ambition, just quietly reminds me that the reforms I myself led to implement had a contribution to employment of 95,600 by 2020. The reforms that the Left has helped to implement while we had an S-R-SF government have contributed 28,650, that is to say less than a third. The great impact of the reforms that were carried out in my first period as Prime Minister relates to, among other things. for the unemployment benefit reform. So I'm gonna stick to it. However, as I said on the other day, the system is not necessarily perfect for that reason, and we are now awaiting the recommendations of the Daily Money Commission, which comes here immediately after the autumn holiday, and are then prepared to start negotiations immediately after that with the very clear ambition that I already expressed in the election campaign, namely to have a broad agreement, defined as an agreement across the middle of Danish policy, which can restore, one might say, the calm surrounding our benefit system. I listen and can hear the reports that have come today, including from the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party. I have also noted that Mrs Mette Frederiksen outside this room has said that I must learn to count to 90, and I have come that far. I have been practicing another thing in recent years, which is really harder to count to ten. In other words, before you say what comes in, you have to count to ten, and I have also decided to do so tonight, which is why I do not want to comment very firmly on what has been said, that there is an ambition now to add extra resources. Our starting point, of course, is the starting point, which was also the government at the time when the benefit commission was set up and where Mrs Mette Frederiksen said on that occasion: the benefit period must be 2 years as it is today, because I would rather spend the money on something else. I would rather spend the money on investing in the future of people than spend the money on extending the benefit period. Quote out. That is a sensible starting point. To stay in that thing with the horse metaphor, I would like to say that I don't know exactly what the curls are pulled by the stable, but I know that one of the red horses by Morten Korch, and that may be one of the ones you sit up on. I would just like to say: be careful about that, ride to Mette F., because at least you must be careful that you do not move too quickly away from the responsibility that you yourself stood for when you were in government quite a short while ago. I'm not saying this to exclude anyone or anything or close any doors, but just to clarify the government's starting point. But, as I said, we have the very clear ambition, yes, first we have the hope that we will have a contribution from the Commission that is useful, but we do not yet know it, because it has not yet been published, and then we have the ambition of negotiating a broad agreement. Then, by its very nature, we have also been discussing foreign policy today. It's filled a lot, and it's only very natural. I note what I have already indicated, namely that more and more people, with a greater degree of openness, recognise that numbers mean something, that we need to find a balance in which, at the same time, we fulfil our humanitarian and international obligations to make our contribution, in a situation where there are many refugees in the world, where we can do the best, but also take care of Denmark. I am also aware, as I have already indicated, that more and more people, and indeed all of them, recognise that the conditions we define in Denmark are also important in terms of what we are going to do about immigration via asylum seekers, because we are now in a situation, as several people have also mentioned in the debate, where people are not only fleeing from something but are also fleeing to something. It is, of course, on the basis that the government has proposed an immediate intervention, for which we have also received support, and it is also on the basis that, immediately after the autumn break, we are starting negotiations to tighten the requirements for family reunification, to tighten up the rules for permanent residence, and that is also on the basis that we have recently concluded a citizenship agreement. For we want to achieve what was also an ambition in the election campaign, namely to reduce the number of people seeking asylum in Denmark. We must then do so in a situation where Europe is under pressure in a different way than we have seen in the past, and that is also the reason why the government has joined the European debate by putting money on the table and by making a small contribution to resolving the problem of the redistribution of initially 160 000 refugees, which was shadowed by the fact that Europe began to talk about the reality of this. For as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and others have also mentioned today, this problem cannot be solved by moving refugees around between the countries of Europe. It can only be solved if you go to the heart of the problem. And if you go to the heart of the problem, there are many things you have to do at one and the same time. Then it must be something that we are working on in a Danish context, but it is also one of the things that has to happen more in Europe if this is to be really successful. That is where the government has settled, and that is where, I think, we stand very well when I note what has been said about the matter here today. We also discussed a referendum on 3 December. I should just like to say that it is in Denmark's clear interest that we should have a yes on 3 December. This is the prerequisite for us to remain a full and complete member of Europol and thus actively participate in the fight against international crime, creating security for Danish citizens and families and proper conditions of competition for Danish companies, and the agreement reached with the parties that recommend a yes is an agreement that ensures that Denmark does not become part of a common asylum and immigration policy. We have provided each other with a reciprocal right of veto on this. And I said in my opening statement the other day that for my party it would be tied up in a referendum, that is, that there would never be a situation, even if there were to be a majority in the Folketing, who wanted to go along with a common asylum and immigration policy, where this could happen without a vote. I would like to acknowledge here today that what I said on that occasion has been followed up by similar statements by other parties, thereby creating full security for it. Then the value of that promise has been questioned. I have told you, it is a guarantee that will apply until the sun burns out. So I've heard that some people are asking, "Well, don't that Prime Minister burn him out before the sun burns out?" To that I have to say: I really hope so for the sake of humanity. For it is the case, according to NASA, with a certain amount of discretionary uncertainty similar to the one we budget in our infrastructure fund, 20 per cent, that then the sun burns out about something similar to 4-5 billion years. But it is, in fact, also the sustainability of this political agreement that has been set up. This is completely analogous to the national compromise reached 23 years ago, because there is a sharp parallel here. The national compromise was a compromise reached to ensure that Denmark could accede to the Maastricht Agreement with four reservations. The compromise is that those reservations can only be lifted by referendum, and that compromise has therefore survived Nyrup, Mr President. Mogens Lykketoft, Mrs. Helle Thorning-Schmidt and now Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, Mr. Uffe Elleman-Jensen, sir. Anders Fogh Rasmussen and now I, and no one questions the value of the national compromise. After all, no one has the imagination to imagine that at any time there would be a majority in this Parliament, even if it was a five-sixth majority who would join Denmark without a referendum. No one has the imagination to imagine that. That is why we can indeed rely on the kind of basic political agreements such as the one I have outlined here. I am a little concerned to emphasise this, and I intend tomorrow, if it is possible, to bring together the parties responsible for the Europol agreement, in order to further flesh out the guarantee which I myself gave out and which has been followed by Mrs Mette Frederiksen and others in the most distinguished way, because it is absolutely essential that, prior to the referendum on 3 December, we have made clear what is being voted on and what is not being voted on. I would just like to touch briefly on another subject which has also been the subject of debate here today, namely the whole question of the green transition, climate, etc. The government is supporting a green transition. I see it as a clear Danish position of strength that we are investing in renewable energy, sustainability, a green transition. We have been doing this for a number of years. It is not, of course, the case that Denmark has taken a particularly extraordinary position during the last 31⁄2 years under the last government, but it is the result of a piece of work through a generation or more, and the government is included in the energy agreement of 2012. It is an agreement that was, and which remains one of the most far-reaching, ambitious plans for green conversion across the world, and the government's long-term goal is that we should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050, so in 2050 we produce renewable energy enough to cover the total Danish energy consumption. It's a strength position to make this bet, and the government agrees with that. With the energy agreement we entered into in 2012, we set out to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 34 per cent. in 2020 compared to 1990. So that was three years ago. It was referred to by the then climate minister as the widest, the greenest and the longest-lasting energy reconciliation ever. Therefore, I am surprised that now that the latest estimates show that the effect of what we have agreed means that we have a CO2 by 2020, it is suddenly totally for the dogs and the blackest sight you can have, if you do not want to offer a full ambition of 40%, even though it is called 30%. in the EU. It is simply a pretext for the proportions of this debate. Denmark is in the driver's shirt and Denmark must remain in the driver's shirt. We must then do so in a balance in which we also take account of our competitiveness, including in the short term. I have noted that there are very many people who have referred in the debate to the Danish Industry and pushed the Danish Industry before them and said: there you can see they are saying that what the government is doing is wrong. If it covers a commitment that the parties that have done this today will also deposit their positions and positions with the Danish Industry in all the other contexts of life, then I think that there is a basis for us to make some kind of quick agreement, because I have at least noted that the Danish Industry has generally supported the government's financial law proposals, have some strong ambitions that we should facilitate business taxation, have some strong ambitions that we should facilitate personal taxation, etc. So the requirement applies to them, as to everyone else, that things should be seen in a whole. And it is a reality that this government is born with a box which is somewhat smaller than what was promised to us. That is why things have to be right, and if we are to meet our ambitions for growth and development and private jobs throughout Denmark, then we also have to re-enact a little on some other points, but that is to say no more than that we are still absolutely in the international elite. In conclusion, I would just like to sign for the contributions from Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, Aleqa Hammond, Magni Arge and Sjúrður Skaale, the North Atlantic members of the Folketing. The Kingdom community is very close to my heart and to the government. That is why it was very important to me that, in preparing the government base, we had time to have a proper dialogue with the four parties, two from Greenland and two from the Faroe Islands, which are now represented in the Folketing. And I would also like to sign for the receipt that was for it in the speeches that were from the platform before. In the wake of the dialogue we have had, we have announced that we would like to improve conditions for socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark and set out to allocate a further 4 million. kr. in the rate pool for next year to strengthen the outreach inclusion effort in the Greenlandic houses. The Minister of Justice is very concerned to look at the issue, which was also addressed here today, about how we take care to update the legislation for Greenland. We are also looking at how we can work for a standard of Danish responsibilities in Greenland, which corresponds to the standard in Denmark, with the particular deviations that can be justified in Greenlandic conditions. And I want close and, hopefully, trusting cooperation. I do so by nature in relation to the two Faroese representatives. Both Magni Arge and Sjúrður Skaale emphasized the work that has been started after the change of Faroese government and congratulations on the new Faroese constitution. I probably know better than so many others, I think, how delicate that discussion is, also in the Faroe Islands. But we would like to take a positive view of this. I would like to make it clear, and it is also true with regard to Greenland, that of course you are free to choose to work with your own constitution. But of course I also have to say that a Faroese constitution is not only important for the Faroe Islands, but also for Denmark, because we are in a kingdom community together. And for that reason, a proposal for a Faroese constitution would of course have to be included within the framework of the Kingdom Community, in other words compatible with the legal framework resulting from the constitution and the legislation governing the autonomy arrangements. I had the opportunity to discuss this matter briefly with the newly elected team member at a meeting the other day, and I have also offered him a dialogue. I understand that you are now going to clarify things within the Faroe Islands, and I therefore expect that when you have gone further in the Faroese internal discussion, you will take this positive dialogue, also with us, so that we can ensure that the wish in the Faroe Islands can be met in a form where it is compatible with the Kingdom Community. As I said, it is my experience that we have had a good and peaceful debate. Of course we don't agree on everything, but now anyway. And on that basis I look forward to being able to embark on a hard-working parliamentary year which, hopefully, can bring a number of good results to the satisfaction of all of us, perhaps not to the satisfaction of everyone in this Chamber, but at least to the delight of all the Danes on the other side of the wall.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211012	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are a large number of brief comments, first from Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211022	Since we're at the horses, it wasn't exactly a champagne gallop of a line we heard tonight. It is almost as if the Prime Minister is a little offended that we do not agree on everything. I would like to warn against that, because I would say that if I were to be angry myself every time I disagreed with the Left, the mood might be a little more lasting, and there is no reason for that. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister must be that although we may disagree on whether more money should be provided to find the benefit solution that can provide security for ordinary Danish employees, even though we must understand that we disagree on this, isn't the time to put that political controversy aside just a little bit and then apparently count to more than ten, be constructive and find a solution? I also think that we owe it to Danish employees, the Danish labour market and thus to become a little more highly aware of Danish society to ensure that we have some rules on unemployment benefits in the future that are good and proper. Shouldn't we choose the constructive path?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211137	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211139	Yes, indeed. I apologize very much if I have given an insulted impression. I didn't mean to do that at all. It was actually being constructive. I fully understand that we cannot agree on everything. I guess my claim was almost that it was fine if you agreed with yourself. I would just point out that the previous government has set work in motion within a framework that the work has not yet been delivered and, until it has been delivered, it is said that more money needs to be put on the table. I have noted that. I have noted it, and I can count to 90 as well. I just repeat, for the sake of good order, what is the government's starting point, and that will remain the government's starting point until we have seen the material coming from the Daily Money Commission. When it comes, we will invite discussions. It is clear that if there are parties that have an ambition for the area to be given more resources, it is, of course, a greater challenge than if a solution can be found within the framework of the economy that is available. Then you have to discuss it from there. So it was definitely not to offend anyone. And champagne gallop? Well, I guess it reflects how exciting the debate has been so far, my own line here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211254	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211257	I would say that it already helps now, I can see both the smile and the good mood. It is a good thing for the negotiations because, as I said before, I am convinced that we can find a solution in this area too, if we want to. What I would perhaps like to arrest in the Prime Minister's reply to the Danish Parliament this evening is the question of what this financial responsibility actually means, because in a situation where we have a government that wants to spend even a significant amount of money on schemes such as the housing job scheme, the effect of which must be said to be quite small and, of course, somewhat smaller than what has been claimed in the past, it is perhaps just fresh enough to claim that a perhaps not even very large but a necessary hand-up, so that we can ensure a proper benefit system, should be particularly financially irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211349	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211351	I have certainly not said that, as a starting point, there is anything economically irresponsible in what Mrs Mette Frederiksen has said here today. I can't judge that until tomorrow I have to understand that this worked out draft Finance Bill, which Mrs Mette Frederiksen promised earlier today. Well, then we'll have to see if the calculations are consistent. I guess the question of responsibility was more about what we really took over, in other words, where one just has to observe completely quietly that the picture that was drawn by the Danish economy up to the election did not stand the test in the reality that came out after the election. That is why we have to tighten up with 5 billion. kr., which it might be nice to have, but then we do not have them, and that requires priority. And yes, the housing job scheme lives and survives. It was a promise we made in the election campaign. It may be an innovation in Danish politics, but we stand by the promises we have made and we will honour them after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211445	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211447	There is a majority in the Folketing who believes that more money is needed for the benefit system in order to solve the obvious problems that we face. This has probably become clear today after Mrs Mette Frederiksen's clear announcement from the Parliament's platform. What does the government intend to do about it? Because I am quite convinced that the Prime Minister can be more clear than to say: I will count to ten, and I will say nothing else. I assume that the Prime Minister can confirm, as a matter of course, that if there are 90 seats or more to add more money to the unemployment benefit system to solve the problems we face, then the government and the Prime Minister will agree to it, or they will resign.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211541	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211544	Now I'm just training to count to ten one more time. And then I would say: well, it is clear that if there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that can agree on how much you want to spend, how you want to spend it and where the money should come from, then that is a reality. But, in other words, I just think that the government is waiting for the benefit commission set up by the previous government with a mandate to come up with a solution within the framework available to it to complete its work. And when we have it and have informed ourselves, we invite negotiations. So, I repeat myself from the election campaign, when I say that when a solution is to be found, and there must be a solution, it must be a solution which, apart from the government, has the support of both sides of the House, because otherwise it will not have the stability that is needed. Whatever is said in material terms, that is to say, about the rules on daily allowances, there is also the good reason why we must now have political calm on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211655	Thank you. There are a lot of people on the list of speakers. Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen once more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211659	Well, we're going in the right direction. That was already a clearer announcement here in a different way than in the speech, even if there was such a ten-county again, namely that the Prime Minister clearly says that if there are 90 mandates or over to add more money to the benefit system to solve the problems, then you have to do so. That was a good thing, but it must also be so, but that was a positive announcement from the Prime Minister. I would like to move on to another issue, namely the ceiling on cash benefits. Your own figures show that 650 extra people come into work every year, but there are thousands of families that become poorer. Denmark's most vulnerable families, Denmark's most vulnerable children become poorer. Isn't the figure 650 people somehow a confession case?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211751	Thank you. So speaking time must be observed, it has been greatly exceeded and no direct speech is used. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211756	A confession case? I don't know what we're gonna be accused of. In other words, what we are doing here is fulfilling the promise we made when we went to the polls. And we can be accused of a great deal, but I myself do not really think there is anything surprising about the fact that we have long had the ambition to create a ceiling on cash benefits as the first part of a job reform, where the second part is the tax cuts at the bottom, all with the aim of increasing the benefit of working. For us, it is a matter of fairness.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211828	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211831	First of all, congratulations to the Faroe Islands for being ahead of 1-0 in Hungary. That's very good. 0-0 is still gone, as far as I understand, in the Danish battle. It is also a bit fun to keep in mind that Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen seems to have more influence when a bourgeois government has arrived, or at least has more success in implementing her policy than when there was a red government when it comes to the unemployment benefit situation. That actually leads me to conclude that there was a little debate about what the Liberal Alliance had said in support of the current government. I just want to make it absolutely clear there and there's really not so much a question in the fact that the Liberal Alliance supports this bourgeois government as long as it makes sense. We want Denmark to move in a more bourgeois-liberal direction: lower taxes, more growth, more freedom and a more efficient and much more like less public sector. That is what this government is being measured on, and as long as it goes in that direction, we support it, and if it does not go in that direction, then, of course, we will not back it up. We will not end up as Enhedslisten did during the previous government period.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211957	I don't know if the PM will answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008211959	Yeah, I'd love to. Well, it seems perfectly reasonable to me to do something as long as it makes sense. It is also my own approach to my own political work and, incidentally, to the work of the government that we have taken this responsibility of government upon us in a situation where people were not queued because we believe that it can make sense. And I think it has done so until now in the 102 days we have been here, and it is also my ambition, and indeed my expectation, that it can also do so in the future. It is my ambition to create a freer and richer Denmark, to which it is essential to create a better balance between the number of Danes who are dependent and the number of Danes who support and are financially self-reliant. And the driving force for this is to create better framework conditions for our businesses and to reduce taxes and a number of other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212056	Thank you. Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212059	Let me just add that my impression of the work of this government so far is also positive. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll even lifted himself up to say that it seems to be almost good, that is, the direction. And I'd like to say the same thing here. I also think that we have got a very good working relationship with the ministers already at this stage and a good dialogue both with the Minister for Finance and we look forward to the first set meetings tomorrow and also with the Prime Minister. So no need to worry on our part at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212133	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212134	I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212143	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212149	Thank you. I do not know whether I was the one who was referred to when the Prime Minister in his statement referred to the launch of criticism of the government's commitment to health. But if it was me, then the Prime Minister certainly misunderstood me. I fully recognise that the government allocates funds and prioritises health, but I just do not agree with the priorities. The government gives priority to a few major areas such as the elderly and the dementia area, now coming a draft law on a 30-day treatment guarantee, and there is a drug boost, so far only in 2016. At the same time, when you read the financial bill, it is clear that then there are a number of initiatives in the field of prevention and research and psychosocial interventions that are either deleted or not continued, and I simply do not agree with that priority, given that all research shows that precisely prevention is so necessary for future health. So when I recognise that the government is giving priority to health, I also hope that the Prime Minister recognises that the criticism I then launch has a professional justification. So I would just like to ask the Prime Minister if he does not agree with me that the health action launched by the government is at the expense of a number of prevention initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212310	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212311	First of all, I am very pleased that we recognise that priority is being given to health, because that is also the situation. We've lifted the area by 1 billion. kr. in the agreement made with the regions and we have reserved additional money so that we can lift the area by 0.5 billion. kr. more than what lay, what was in sight if the old government had continued. By the way, I fully agree that prevention is important, and that is one of them. the reason why, when we were there last time, we brought the municipalities into the health sector as an integral part of the health sector. And there I think there is much more to come for in cooperation between what is happening in the municipalities, in the primary health sector and in our hospital system in general to get more focus on prevention. It is not just a question of how much money you drop off, it is also a question of how you work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212410	Thank you. But does the Prime Minister therefore believe that looking at prevention is a task that we can only add to the municipalities? Does the Prime Minister not think that this is a national task which we, from the state side, have to perform for our citizens, that is, the task of prevention?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212429	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212430	Indeed, it is also a state task, and there is no provision for us to remove the prevention work in what we have put forward. I am simply pointing out that what has been an effort for my own party for a long time and which I do not think we have finished, is also part of what the Minister for Health and the Elderly is going to be working on. Moreover, that is also why we have a Minister for Health and the Elderly • is to ensure that the different parts of the public sector, which together, like deciding whether we have a good and coherent health care, both prevention and treatment and primarily and secondary, will play better together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212503	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212506	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his cooperation on the municipal agreement and say that he is always welcome to call. He does not have to wait until the parliamentary basis may fail. We're kind of ready to work together. As the Prime Minister also mentioned, we have made many reforms together, both when the Prime Minister was last Prime Minister and when we had the opportunity to be in government. And it is true that that was what I kind of hinted a little at the ambitions of. In fact, we did not make an agreement on the daily allowance, but I understand that the Prime Minister has now become clever with damage, so that this time it should be widely grounded, and I think that is a wise consideration. So there we are also ready to stay within the Commission's remit which has been drawn up. We mean the same in government as in opposition. However, when we talk about the level of ambition, i.e. the reform accounts, I understand that the Prime Minister believes that the VK government and its many reforms were just like the ultimate level of ambition. Then we were a little less ambitious in the SR government with these 28,000 by 2020. How, then, will the Prime Minister characterise the reform programme of the current government with 650 people from the cash aid ceiling and a tax reform that we do not really know anything about? Where should it be placed on the ambition scale above or below the SR government?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212622	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212623	Well, we have a high level of ambition in terms of creating better cohesion in the Danish economy and making the Danish economy long lasting, and that requires many things. That is also why we have said that we are making a tax reform this spring. We haven't played that out yet. We cannot judge it because we have not proposed it yet. I also have to say that reform is not just a question of labour supply impact reforms; it is also a question of a number of other things. Because we can do all the labour supply impact reforms we want. But if we do not ensure that we also have competitive conditions for our companies; if we do not ensure that we set up our transfer systems in such a way that it is also attractive for Danes to seek some of the employment that is alternatively occupied by people from outside, so that we do not have the effect that we can save on some transfer costs, then it does not help. That is why I think it will be too narrow to measure only, it can be said, the level of ambition on the effect of labour supply. And there's nodding, I see.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212731	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212732	After all, it was the Prime Minister himself who said in the answer to the debate that when the Prime Minister was last Prime Minister, it was very ambitious and that we in the SR government then delivered only one third of it in cooperation with the Left. Now I have to interpret the answer to that, since we do not want to be in place, that is enough because the ambitions are not enough to deliver on the reforms that we did in the SR government. But I also understand with regard to this cashier's check-out... the ritual tribal dance that I mentioned... that there you think you found a box that was empty. Then all I have to do is ask the Prime Minister: where did they find 1 billion? kr. to the housing job scheme in 2015? It appears from the bill that it was on the reserves of the Finance Act, but it can't be right if the check-in showed that the box was empty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212819	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212820	When I highlighted the effects of the reforms that were, the last time I was Prime Minister, it was really just for the sake of history writing. For Mr. Morten Østergaard used so much of his speaking time here today, as well as beating himself on his radical breast and addressing that fantastic government, sir. Morten Østergaard until recently was part of, up against, who is there now. Then I just think that, for the sake of completeness, the reforms made during the reign of Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt should not match what happened before. It must also be part of the storywriting that when you got the effects you got, it was because there was a very responsible opposition that helped to increase the level of ambition along the way. I'd be delighted if Mr. Morten Østergaard occupies the position we took in the past and arranges to bid to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212916	Thank you. And then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008212921	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for saying, after all, that the government supports the green transition, sustainability • I think there were several green adjectives following on from the phrase "and the Prime Minister emphasizes in his speech that several speakers have a signed picture of the government's environmental and climate policy. So I just want to ask if the Prime Minister disagrees with that, too, because I suppose the Prime Minister is here with his own climate and energy rapporteur, sir. Thomas Danielsen, when this one rejects E.ON as a hoax. And the reason why E.ON is judged to be irresponsible is that they stress that Denmark's fine energy policy must not become a political battleground, that it is too important for it, that it is important that we are ambitious. Therefore, I need to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with his climate rapporteur, who just thinks that it is irresponsible that the business community is complaining, or whether the Prime Minister really understands the green companies who are concerned about whether we are now dropping the green transition and the green jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213035	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213035-2	This is such a very ritual, polemical way of asking, which I do not really know what is conducive to: Do you agree with it or that? And conflict, conflict. So, the answer is quietly that for a long time in Denmark we have had a leading position in this field. We have continued to do so, and we have no ambition to lose it, and neither do we with what we have proposed. We have objectives that are absolutely in the international elite. We have an energy agreement that means that we will have achieved a CO2 I think the EU target is 30%. That is a nice, ambitious objective. Then I would like to admit that some people think it should be even more ambitious, but peace be with it. That doesn't make our unambitious. That is why we are not sending out a decisively new signal, not even to industry, about what Denmark is aiming for and what Denmark is going to live on. That is why we can also travel to COP 21 in Paris with an upright forehead and insist that the world should have a higher level of ambition. Of course we can. Because we're definitely at the top.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213202	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213204	I mentioned E.ON as an example of a green company which is concerned about the government's climate and energy policy and which wants to create jobs in Denmark. SF is concerned that we are creating some new jobs, that people get to work. E.ON is an example of this. Another example is Grundfos, a third example is Apple in Viborg. These are all those who demand great green ambitions, because they are interested in creating jobs here. I just want to challenge the assumption that because you have green ambitions, it creates minus growth and fewer jobs. That is the assumption I would like to make, because I think it creates jobs. That is why, if it is to be unolenic, I would just like to ask the Prime Minister about the subsidies for heat pumps that have been abolished, which are, of course, some of the things that could really create jobs, because some wind could be transferred to the heating sector. In fact, it could both save some CO2 is it one of the things the Prime Minister will look at on the Finance Act to ensure that we might be able to retain some of the green jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213315	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213316	It's one of those things, I guess, SF will go to the negotiations. And if the SF does that and, by the way, has some funding proposals, then we have to talk about it. However, I would like to say that all jobs are important and we have to find a balance where we ensure that Danish industry is also very competitive. It is basically about what financial burdens we place on them, and it is once again a reflection of how much money we spend in here. And the truth is that, with the socio-economic aspect, we need to tighten up. The industry also says this, and that is what I said before: it is useless to push the business organisations in front of them in some tiny way and then forget the whole thing. The money has to fit. We have made some priorities which we stand by and which do not push a fool by the fact that Denmark will continue to be an international leader in what can be called green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213420	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213423	Hello. We know that the government makes some demands on languages and that one must be able to speak Danish in order to obtain Danish citizenship. Now it is the case that most of us do not have Danish as a native language, and we speak Greenlandic from home. Many people can do it fantastic, others can do it less well, and this also applies to the people who live in Denmark. Many of the socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark have very poor Danish language skills, which means that they are cut off from the opportunities to get an education, a job and the like. That is why I think it would be very good to hear what the Prime Minister is thinking about the Greenlanders who already live in Denmark as regards whether they can also meet the language requirements that the government is proposing. Is that part of the plan, or what does it look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213512	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213514	Thank you. Well, we're in a community together, and now I have to be careful how I say it, because I could provoke my good friends from Tjóðveldi. Anyway, we're all Danes in a citizenshipal sense. And this means that if you are born in the Faroe Islands and stay in Denmark, you get a Danish passport, and if you are born in Greenland and stay in Denmark, you are also equipped with a Danish passport. So we're per. definition Danish citizens, whether we speak Faroese, Gadedian, Danish or Greenlandic.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213601	Thank you. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213604	Yeah, well, we're Danish citizens. But we also have another language, and I think it would be quite natural for the Kingdom community to have an understanding of each other's languages and cultural differences within a given framework. And I think it would be quite natural that when you make language requirements for your citizens in society, you should also be based on your own citizens. In this context, I would like to hear what the Prime Minister has to say about the fact that many Greenlanders in Denmark do not know Danish and are socially vulnerable and, on that basis, do not feel integrated. What does the Prime Minister think about ensuring better integration for Greenlanders?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213642	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213643	May I not first say that when I replied, as I replied, it was because the language requirements we are talking about introducing and, for example, we are talking about. has made by birthright, indeed is in relation to obtaining Danish citizenship. And it is just important to say that as a Faroese and as a Greenlander you are per. definition is a Danish national. Moreover, I think it is important to have mutual language knowledge. I think that is the case in the Kingdom Community, and I think that is also the case in the Nordic countries. Without getting too romantic about it I'm getting old, one of the things that bothers me is that the linguistic understanding between the Nordic countries is also disappearing. I have just been to a Nordic Prime Minister's meeting, where the conversation at meeting level took place in English, and somehow I am a little saddened that we cannot speak Scandinavian and understand each other. As I have said, the government has allocated resources to strengthen the social effort among Greenlanders in Denmark, and if there is a dimension here that is about increasing their Danish competences, then I would very much like to be involved in discussing it. Moreover, I think that there is also a challenge in Greenland itself with how to handle, one can say, the knowledge of the Danish language, which is as I can see from the outside without interfering with the first prerequisite for obtaining education. For Denmark will typically be the place you turn against if you are to have a higher education as a Greenlander.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213805	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213810	Thank you, Madam President. After all, the Prime Minister has promised the Danes that a referendum will be held if Denmark is to join a common EU asylum and immigration policy, and the promise is even valid until the sun burns out, I understand. That's quite a long time, that's about 71⁄2 billion. I am not quite sure whether the Prime Minister is still there at that time. Nevertheless, I am surprised that the Prime Minister, at a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs on 23 September, was present at Mr Delors' meeting. Dan Jørgensen's question on how to ensure that Denmark can continue to be a member of the Dublin Convention, when continued participation in it by the European Commission is coupled with participation in the permanent redistribution mechanism, replied, and I quote: 'If we have an opt-in, that is to say an opt-in, then it may be that this is what solves the dilemma to which you refer. Quote out. Can the Prime Minister explain how a yes on 3 December can solve the dilemma of the Dublin Convention without Denmark joining an essential element of the common EU asylum and immigration policy, namely the permanent redistribution mechanism?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213919	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008213920	I am absolutely certain that I am not there when the sun burns out at the very most there could be a simultaneousness in it but it would then require that the sun burns out somewhat earlier than the forecast. When I replied, as I did there, this is related to the observation that is quite low-practical, namely that the two countries which have an opt-in in relation to this reservation are handled in the papers that are from the Commission, without, moreover, being intended for per cent for that reason. to be part of a redistribution key, whereas Denmark, which is outside, is not included in the papers. It is, in fact, the very low-practical observation behind it. It does not shake the fact that it is wall- and nail-proof in the agreement reached between the parties that recommend a yes, that Denmark should not be included in an asylum and alien policy, just as it is wall- and nail-proof that if what is the starting point should be changed by someone in a few years' time, then it will only be possible to do so if there is a prior referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214031	Thank you. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214033	I still do not think it is quite clear to me, so I have to ask the Prime Minister in another way: does the Prime Minister think that Danish participation in a permanent mechanism for the redistribution of refugees also or does the Prime Minister think that he has received such a 'yes' from the Danes if they vote 'yes' on 3 December?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214109	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214110	No, I don't think I would have gotten a yes, because that's not what we're voting on, so that's kind of the whole point. What we are voting on on 3 December is whether Denmark should convert its reservation into an opt-in system and opt for a total of exactly 22 legal acts, with which you can become more familiar if you agree, I believe the Prime Minister's website and inform yourself. They mean that we can stay in Europol, combat paedophilia rings, ensure that women whose violent husbands have been restrained can have that police restrained abroad, ensure that foreign companies who leave a bill here in Denmark, perhaps after social dumping, can be arrested in their country of origin. That is the kind of thing we are voting on and only what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214156	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214200	Thank you. Earlier in the debate, the Prime Minister was very concerned about how to use the Danish language, and even before that, the Prime Minister said this evening: we acknowledge the promises we have made. On this occasion it is interesting to focus on an interview the Prime Minister gave in Politiken on 9 August, so not long ago, when the Prime Minister said: The influx of asylum seekers to Denmark must be reduced. We must move that way and call ourselves a failure if we do not move that way. I would simply like to ask the Prime Minister this evening: is the Prime Minister prepared to continue to promise that the government can be called a failure if the number of asylum seekers is not reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214253	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214254	Now it can be said that, no matter how I answer that question, I am quite sure that Mr. Nicolai Wammen will reserve the right to call the government a failure even when we hit the next election campaign in four years. However, I fully agree with the quotation which clearly expresses the political ambition we have. That is our ambition, that is what we are working for. That is why we have made an integration benefit for ■ to put it bluntly: to make the conditions of residence less attractive than they were, because it meant something to double the amount that could be obtained as a refugee who had been granted asylum in Denmark under Mr. Nicolai Wammen's government. That is also what everyone has said today, and that is why, of course, it also matters when you reduce the rate, just as it matters that you tighten up on family reunification rules and other things. And yes, it is all with the aim of getting an immigration into Denmark, which is of a level where we can deal with the challenge of integration. That's what we want. If we succeed, we will be a success. If we fail to do so after the parliamentary term has passed, we will not be successful.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214409	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214411	After all, I was not prepared to call the government a failure in advance. After all, it was the Prime Minister who set the success criterion for his own government. Last year, when we had the debate at the end of the parliamentary year, the then opposition leader said that the situation was out of control when it came to asylum seekers. That is why it is interesting that when you look at the government's own draft budget, you can see that in the years to come you will be assuming that there will be 15 000 asylum seekers in each of the years. It's the same thing we've been through so far. So I have to ask the Prime Minister: how does the Prime Minister himself feel about fulfilling the promises he has made to try to avoid being a failure?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214505	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214506	There is no reason at all to have a confrontation, because I agree with that quotation, and the government must be judged by its ability to implement its policy as the days, weeks, months and years pass. We've been here for 102 days, so maybe it's just early enough to make the rainboard all the way up. We've done some tightening up. For me, there is no doubt that it has an effect. This has, of course, been a general theme in today's debate, in other words even Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen is now of the opinion that living conditions matter. It must also be said quite quietly that when you look at what kind of pressure it is on Europe, what kind of migration has gone through Europe and compare it with what number of asylum seekers have applied for in Denmark, you certainly have to believe that there is a connection. And yes, that's why it's our ambition to bring down that number. Sir. Nicolai Wammen knows that 2016 is budgeted when we go further into the year, and 2017 and 2018 are purely technical estimates.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214608	Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214613	I understand you'd rather use a horse analogy like that if you want to be taken seriously in this house, so I'll have to try that too. I heard the story of a famous professor who had a horse shoe hanging over his door, because one of them brings good luck. Then he was asked: sir. Professor, you are a scientist, how can you submit to such superstition? Then he said: I've heard it works, even if you don't believe it. That is how I feel about the government acting in relation to their own asylum policy. The Prime Minister says we have to measure it, it's gonna work. But if you look at the government's own papers and look at their own projections, you budget for exactly as many asylum applications for the next four years. How are people supposed to believe your promise when you don't even do it yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214658	It is therefore not permitted to indict directly. It has been used very much today, even by seasoned members of parliament. You don't address directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214708	It was Dan Jørgensen's own party chairman who introduced this Hjallerup Market jargon into the political debate. We've made some asylum restrictions. We're going to do more things, tighten up family reunification, etc. We are talking about our development policy in the direction of supporting the neighbourhoods. We've put down 100 million. The euro on the table in relation to the European Union to promote a European solution to ensure that illegal migrants are turned in the door and returned to them. After all, these are some of the things that must prove to have an effect. I firmly believe that they will have an effect. And we need to be measured by how reality develops. It is the case that what has been included in the draft budget is a provisional estimate which will be adjusted when we get further into the year. The fact that something has been added in 2017 and 2018 is pure technique. It does not express any political ambition, it is purely technical. Then I'm not allowed to suggest sir. Dan Jørgensen, that you arm yourself with patience. The government has been here 102 days. There are four years until we have to go to the polls again, and there you will be able to make up and there you will be able to see how this area has developed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214824	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214826	It's not that much about my patience. My party actually said in the election campaign that there is something you can do to influence the number, but that there is also a lot that you cannot control, where the Prime Minister's party gave a somewhat different impression, namely that they promised that when they came to power, there would be not only an immediate intervention, but also an immediate slowing down. Can I have the Prime Minister confirm that there has been no immediate slowing down, and can the Prime Minister answer when that will happen? Will it be before the end of this year, or will it be before the end of next year, or shall we go right into the next parliamentary term before such a slowing down will take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214858	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214859	There is no doubt that the conditions that are being set up are important in a situation where we are faced with the new, that people are not only fleeing from something but are fleeing to something. Denmark is not the first safe country to come across, for example. fleeing the war in Syria. It's not. When you move all the way up and pass Austria and Germany and come to Denmark, we are not the first safe destination. Therefore, the terms we offer mean something to whether you put your application in here. Perhaps that is why you can see that, even though the pressure on Europe is greater than it was last year, and this situation is quite extraordinary, the number that has applied for asylum, that is, at the moment of speech, is smaller than it was at the same time last year. I guess that's because what we're doing has an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214957	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008214959	Thank you. One of the things that we have not talked about so much today, but which is actually a rather violent one, can be said, innovation in the government's draft Finance Act, is the green harvester that will be at our educational institutions, at 2%. a year, it is approx. 8.7 billion kr., to be found in the field of education over the next four years, and in response to the criticism of it, the Minister of Education has called our educational institutions corn fat. I think, with all due respect, that the students who go right around the corner of Copenhagen's technical school, where the ceilings are falling and where there are teacher-free lessons, think that this is quite an exaggeration, not to mention the university students who are still sitting in the windowsills when they finally get a lesson in a week. I think it is very, very short-sighted. One of the things that has been pointed out by the educational institutions is that this will mean that there are educational establishments on the outskirts that are going to close. How does this relate to the Prime Minister's own ambitions for a geographically coherent Denmark, as I think I heard him say a few days ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215122	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215123	May I first of all say to this that when we make this demand on the education sector where Mrs Pernille Skipper says it is new, and that is in the sense that it has not been done before then it is actually close to the only part of the public sector where it has not been demanded. We have been doing this for a very, very long time, for example. We think it is reasonable to place it on the education sector in a situation where we have, after all, added billions and billions of dollars to the education sector over the past many years, as the intake of students has increased. And that is why it is our particular assessment that it is fair enough to align the demands with those of others, thereby freeing up a place of priority. And then it will be the case when we make Finance Act 2017 for 2018, 2018 and 2019 that we will decide how to use the room for manoeuvre that is thereby brought forward. It is, of course, entirely the same thinking that is behind what we are doing in relation to the municipalities, and that is why I am not standing here and ruling out that part of the resources can be returned to the education sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215240	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215243	In other words, it can be formulated as cuts or demands, but that does not change the fact that there are consequences of the demands that are then made. In the health sector, this has led to health professionals having to run faster and faster all the time, because efficiency demands are constantly being made. There I think you have to talk to some nurses about what they meet every day, and not least some patients about what they meet every day. It has consequences, and it also has consequences in the educational institutions. Very concretely, it has been pointed out from the professional high schools that training places in Thisted, on Bornholm, in Nykøbing Falster and Nørre Nissum will be closed if this becomes a reality. How does this relate to the Prime Minister's wish for a geographically coherent Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215331	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215332	Yes, in the health sector, this has led us to have been able to treat significantly more patients better and with higher survival rates than before in Danish history, because it creates evolutionary pressures. And we think that's the same thing that can happen here. Then I know that both the ministers involved in the actual implementation of this will, of course, want to ensure that this is also done in a way that takes geographical account, and that is one of them. Therefore, it has been distorted in relation to some of the basic grants in some of the forms of school. This contrasts with the government that was there before, which clearly dimensioned education in such a way that it was to the detriment of everything I had almost said outside the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215419	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215421	Well, let us stay on the Hjallerup Market, and on the Hjallerup Market is 15,000 equal to 15,000, and so I ask once again quite patiently: when the Prime Minister stood in the Chamber just a year ago claiming that an asylum influx of 15,000 was an asylum influx that was completely out of control, and when 15,000 then the number of asylum seekers that the government itself says will come this year, does the Prime Minister think that the situation is currently under control or is it still out of control?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215503	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215505	The situation is certainly not desirable. I do not know whether to base the way in which the question is asked on the fact that it seems to be in the Social Democratic Party, or what? So, I do not think it is unproblematic for us to have the level of 15 000 refugees into Denmark for a number of years to come, which will then have family reunification in some relationship called 1:3 or something like that. Because this is going to create quite a lot of pressure on our municipalities and our integration efforts. So, no, I don't think it's unproblematic. And that's kind of why we're trying to do something to bring that number down. We can do something at home, and we can do something out, and we can do something out in two dimensions. At home we tighten the living conditions; we have done so with the integration benefit, and more will come. Out there we can do something even in relation to the neighbourhood effort, and that is why we are running an act through the Financial Committee with 1⁄4 billion. kr. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Out there, we can also do something about supporting the European Union in bringing realism into the EU's asylum and immigration policy, turning illegal immigrants around external borders, among other things. Because I would very much like that figure to be brought down.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215631	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215631-2	This is not, of course, a question which requires that we have taken a great deal of training in order to answer it. It is quite simple: is the situation today out of control when there are still 15 000 asylum seekers, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215648	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215649	Well, it would be exciting to hear Mrs Trine Bramsen's own answer to that question. Well, it's Christiansborgdrillery to ask that way. The short of the long term is that many people come through Denmark, and some of them choose to seek asylum. Compared to how many people are coming, I can say it's a smaller part. There are probably different explanations for this. I have no doubt that one of the explanations is the tightening-up that has taken place, both those we made together with the previous government on the temporary basis of residence for certain refugees and those we have subsequently made about integration benefits, etc. And that is why it will mean something that the government is putting forward for continued austerity, for example. in connection with family reunification. When we do that, it is because we think that the number means something, but apparently that is not what the Social Democrats think. I think it is problematic that we should get refugees to Denmark in the number we are getting at the moment. Yes, I find that problematic, because it creates enormous pressure on our municipalities, which it is difficult to honour.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215759	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215803	Thank you. It was actually because the Prime Minister made a little comment on the fact that not so many people had submitted to the Finance Act. And neither is it because I am now going to reveal all our priorities. We'll have that pleasure tomorrow at 2:00 a.m. 9 a.m. at the finance minister's office, so the time, the pleasure. But, of course, we will engage constructively in this and hope to be part of both the final agreement and a number of partial agreements. However, in relation to the partial agreements, Prime Minister, we have at least the expectation that those who come and deliver the savings, the money, to finance all the good gifts that are also in the government's proposal, are also those who help to make the partial agreements on everything from police to health, so that there are no free tickets for any parties. I just want to know whether the Prime Minister shares the expectation that partial agreements cannot be entered into without also voting for what has to finance the feast.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215907	Thank you, and this is the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215911	Well, on this point, we are totally in favour of user charges. We're not issuing any free tickets. That is also what I was trying to make a point in my first reply, namely that we have, after all, put forward a fully funded financial bill, which is linked, which is responsible, which has a buffer, it is not huge, but we have it in relation to budget limits and other. It expresses the government's priorities. There is a negotiating reserve of 1.7, but in addition it will be the case that something must be given priority somewhere else, one must finance it somewhere else. That is a good parliamentary custom, and we will continue to follow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008215955	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220004	I'm glad. It is not because we say yes or no to everything that lies in the government's proposal, but we can see a lot of good lines in it. I just think that when you've heard the debate... maybe that's what the Prime Minister himself said a little bit about... there have been a lot of parties that have the wallet open, who want to spend money, but where it's a little hard to hear how perhaps the big opposition party in particular intends to help finance the feast. But I appreciate the Prime Minister's commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220029	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220030	It will then be an echo of what I have already said. It goes without saying that if you are going to use such a common rhetoric to distribute gifts, you must also finance them. Anyone who orders the music must also pay for it and what else to say in general terms. That is the context. And now the Minister of Finance will invite everyone tomorrow to get an overview of the level of ambition that you meet. Ambition levels are two things here. I mean, it's not just a question of how much different you think the government's proposals should look. It is, of course, whether you have a level of ambition in taking responsibility for making it look different.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220118	Next question is Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220121	Thank you. We have been around many topics today, but one that we have hardly touched on is nature, the nature to which we all feel connected when we look out the window or go for a walk in the woods on Sundays. In this context, I would like to say that we have several major crises, including one in the field of nature, among others. The decline in biodiversity is one of the major crises recognised by scientists. It is so fortunate that in the election campaign we have actually had a dialogue about the state forest we have in Denmark, 125,000 ha. We have been in a debate about the possibility of converting some of this forest, which is widely used for forestry today, into untouched forest. Scientists say that this is actually one of the cheapest ways to get good, untouched nature. It costs somewhere between 50 million. and 100 million kr. a year. What does the Prime Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220230	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220231	Well, that is certainly a very interesting thought, which I know the Minister for the Environment and Food also shares and would like to discuss at the appropriate time and place. After all, before we became a government, we have had the idea of a very expensive Nature Plan Denmark, as the then government did, that some of the same objectives on biodiversity could be achieved by leaving a part of our state forests left untouched by human hand, if one can express it that way. So without having to stand here and look up as someone who knows all the details of it, I would like to say that the idea behind the question I share far along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220327	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220329	I think that was a very positive answer. The left has themselves been out to suggest that one could start with, I think, one fifth or the size of the state forests. In the alternative, of course, we think it should be much more, but very well that we can start the debate there, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220348	We'll take the next question. It's sir. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220350	Thank you. The Prime Minister was in his reply to Mr. Dan Jørgensen and Mrs Trine Bramssen talk about some of the things that can be done outside and at home on the issue of asylum restrictions and asylum seekers at all. With regard to what can be done outside, I have noted that the government has launched an advertising campaign to inform refugees about Denmark's asylum rules, and seven points are included in that ad. I would really like the Prime Minister to tell us just how many of the seven points of the current government have been implemented, for the sake of general information for us during the debate here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220445	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220446	I have some suspicion that when Mr. Knox arrives... Benny Engelbrecht asks that way, it's because Mr. Benny Engelbrecht himself knows the answer. Well, my understanding is not enough for me to remember an ad in a Lebanese newspaper by heart. I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220503	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220506	It has been an ad, which has also been noticed quite a bit at home, it has to be said. I can tell you that the current government has implemented one of the seven points. Five of the points were made, for example. In this way, when the present government advertises the tightenings of the former SR government, is this because it is believed that they have a significant effect on the influx to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220547	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220548	I can't believe there's been that big outrage over those ads. Now, apparently, you have to fight about copyright, that is, who wrote them. That's weird. The austerity of the previous government, for example. The Left itself has contributed to this temporary basis of residence. Have they had an effect? I think they certainly have. That is, of course, the recognition that has spread. It has also spread in the debate here today. It has also spread in the debate before we came here. Well, I pointed out before that Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen himself has been out in the public debate and has said, and now it is not a quote, but I have quoted and have expressed the view that, to her surprise, these things mean more than she thought. Other so-called experts have been out saying the same thing, and they have said so on the basis of the movements we have seen this summer, when it is quite evident that people are not only fleeing from something but also to something. And what matters in the choice of refugee destination is what conditions are offered. There is no doubt that the austerity that the previous government carried out with our support, plus the austerity that we ourselves made, and the austerity that we are going to do in the future will have a significance. All of this must help us to get a number that is manageable in order to solve the challenge of integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220714	The next question is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220718	Thank you. The Prime Minister said in his opening statement on Tuesday and again here today in his reply that the government is lifting health by 2.4 billion. kr. That sounds great, but it is not true, because the truth is that when you look at the government's financial bill, you can see that the government is getting the money on health for the so-called boost, that is, that the government is cutting health to give to health. It's not a boost. So there must be some of those 2.4 billion. kr., you have to subtract from what the Prime Minister says. I can give you some examples. Two hundred and ninety million have been taken. DKr., which was allocated to programme plans for chronically ill patients over 3 years of age; 225 million. DKr., which was allocated to the maternity departments over 3 years; 175 million. kr., which was allocated to health care; 178 million. kr., which was devoted to prevention, including 3 interventions for suicidal people, you have even been so precise that you have been down to 2 million. kr., which was devoted to the opening of the Life Line. I mean, the PM doesn't owe it to tell the truth about how much money the government is lifting health, instead of decorating the figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220837	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008220838	Well, at least the Prime Minister owes it to him to do so, which is why I have already delivered on it. As far as what I am saying is that we are lifting health, we have done so for the time being by 1 billion. kr. in the agreement we have concluded with the regions, and then we have dropped money so that it reaches 2.4 billion. kr. It's an expression of a boost. Just to take one thing, you pull out the example of the maternity wards. Well, what's going on here? It has happened that the former government, initiated by the Enhedslisten, is honored to the person who should be honored, it is very, very important that, in relation to the economy that should be for the regions operating the health care system, a specific appropriation should be earmarked, so that it should then negotiate the finance minister with the regions. These are the ones we have chosen to run our hospital services and they express a desire that they want to be freed from earmarked appropriations, that they want to have the money clean. Then they get them without earmarking, but the resources are still gone. It's quite the same as that old-age billion I've had to listen to today that we should have removed the old-age billion we haven't removed. We have removed a binding which was annoying for the municipalities because the municipalities had to lie and seek to spend their own money. And to their wishes, just as we have now made it the wish of the regions, we have said: you are allowed to spend the money yourself; we are not to sit in the Folketing and decide how you run your hospitals; we are not to sit in the Folketing and decide how you run your municipality. But the money's still gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008221013	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008221014	Yeah, that's right. The money is still gone, but then it is not a boost, and that is what the Prime Minister said in his opening statement on Tuesday: this is a boost of 2.4 billion. kr. But it's not a boost when you start going to pick up some money on health and then hand it over again. This total amounts to 1.2 billion. kr. over 3 years. I think the Prime Minister owes it to the voters to say quite frankly that when the Prime Minister talks about a boost, some of that money is taken from a wide range of health areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008221048	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008221048-2	I have to say that, in relation to the draft budget we have put forward for 2016, it is, for example. It is true that we have abolished the earmarking that was on the resources of the maternity departments, but we have not removed the resources. No, we haven't. And we've lifted the area. But now the Enhedslisten is meeting for tomorrow's negotiations with the Minister for Finance, and then you can ask more questions about it. When we remove that earmarking, it is in this way in respect of self-government in the regions and municipalities, because we really believe that the money will be spent better if it is not red taped. There must also be room for some local policy. I know there are people in the Enhedslisten who think that the party tax has become so high that the incentive for local politics is removed, but in many other parties people are involved in local politics. That is why I think it is unnecessary, for example, to tie one of the municipalities' own billions by first laying down and applying for them. It's better they get to keep them. Then there is also something overhead that can be used on the core tasks instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008221150	There are more questioners, but the time has passed, and that is why we thank the Prime Minister. Then we have a single privateist, and that is why I am now giving the floor to Mr Beazley. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008221217	I know it's late for those who aren't used to being up this late. Dear Prime Minister and dear government. Denmark is a lovely country, and I was proud when my Prime Minister and now I say my September 2015 at just over eleven o'clock in newly ironed shirt, tie, suit and shiny shoes as conductor at the UN summit knocked the hammer on the table and found that the 193 member states of the UN had unanimously adopted 17 new world goals to be achieved by 2030. These are the most far-reaching objectives that the United Nations has ever adopted. Objective 1 is to eradicate poverty in all its forms throughout the world. Objective 2 is to eradicate hunger, achieve food security and promote sustainable agriculture. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has memorized all 17 goals when I have tried him out, and we will probably be able to do so in a short time. On Monday thereafter, the Prime Minister made his speech to the General Assembly and praised the UN's great efforts. I mention these things because I think there has not been so much praise to the Prime Minister, and he should have some. I would like to mention a few quotes from his speech, since it was quite landmark. I must admit that I end up saying that I fully agree. They are translated into Danish, and that is my translation, so it is not certain that it is as perfect as it should be, but I cannot read out in English: a political solution to the war in Syria is necessary. Another quotation is that we have an international responsibility to ensure the necessary protection for the almost 60 000 refugees. And we must address the causes of the many refugees. Then the Prime Minister goes on to say: we must now act through national policies and by supporting those countries that have difficulty paying for themselves. Another quote is: We need to reach an ambitious binding climate agreement in Paris. And it won't be long. The penultimate quote is: The need for an effective UN has never been greater. Finally, the Prime Minister concludes by saying: we must now act to show our grandchildren that we are able to deliver on our promises. It was very uplifting to listen to, I would say to the Prime Minister, and I would really rather have stopped my speech here, because then all was happiness and happiness. But the Prime Minister took the decorum of my enthusiasm when he presented the draft Finance Act in Denmark 20 hours later. 2.7 billion kr. he will save on Danish development aid. There was a change of line during the 20 hours. Denmark will withdraw completely from the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation, support for the UN Fund for Agricultural Development is being cut, support for international agricultural research is being phased out, support for UN population activities is being cut, although population growth in Africa in particular is one of the causes of the threats of future refugee flows, the UN Development Programme UNDP is being cut. All in all, the UN contribution is cut by one third. That is not what the United Nations listened to when the Prime Minister spoke. Climate action is being drastically reduced. Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Indonesia, Nepal, Pakistan and Bolivia no longer need development aid from Denmark. Africa gets almost 4.5 billion. kr. less in 2015, 2016 and 2017, despite the Government's promise that Africa will be given priority. Development organisations will have their operations cut by more than 25%, and on top of that I see and will be very sad that more than 2.8 billion are being cut this year. kr., although there are only 3 months left of the year. At once, people lose money as they were promised by the Finance Act. This applies, among other things, to: Ghana: 223 million kr.; Mozambique: 94 million kr.; Kenya: 300 million. kr.; Social Dialogue, i.e. workers' rights: 55 million. kr.; Arab Initiative: 106 million. kr.; climate pool 100 million kr.; ozone fund: 62 million. kr.; UN Crisis Building Fund: 42 million. kr.; UN Counter-Terrorism Fund: 9 million. kr.; UN Peace Building Fund: 50 million. kr.; Global Partnership for Education: 125 million. kr. etc. etc. You can read for yourself the death list issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I can see, however, that the Prime Minister has kept his good friends in the elitist organisation GGGI, which we have discussed. They must continue to have a full hammer. As far back as I remember, and that's a few years ago, development aid has never been cut so drastically. I am sorry for the great distance from the Prime Minister's fine words in the UN to the bloody reality of the Finance Act. I am sorry for the many thousands of people in the world who could have benefited from the help that Denmark has given before, but who are now pruned and remodelled so hard. And then it is not related to the government's aim to limit the world's flow of refugees. The government doesn't address the reason people are fleeing. The cuts will, in the worst case, increase the flow of refugees. Denmark is a nice country, but Denmark is also a rich country. We can afford to remain a beacon out in the world. Business and people at my and the Prime Minister's pay levels do not need tax relief, especially when the money is to be taken from the world's poor. Excuse me, sir. Prime Minister: It is brutal, it is cynical and we cannot be that familiar.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008221828	Thank you. No one wanted to make brief comments. That's why we thank the privateist, Christian Juhl. As no one else has asked for the floor, we shall proceed to the vote, but I will leave some room for people to get to their seats so that the party secretaries can have an overview of their troops.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008221937	I guess we're in place. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 2 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF). A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour of 58 (DF, V and LA), against 55 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. After that, the text of the proposal for a decision will lapse. V 1 by Mette Frederiksen (S), Pernille Skipper (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Morten Østergaard (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF). That concludes the opening debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151008222054	There are just a few reviews: Eva Flyvholm (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 10 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the restoration of the Iraq and Afghanistan Commission) and motion for a resolution No. B 11 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the publication of the decision-making basis for the election of new fighter aircraft). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 12 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a mortgage institution for loans to owner-occupied dwellings and commercial property in outlying areas). The titles of the notified cases will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered: report and recommendation amending the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. B 13). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 20 October 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 12.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website. The meeting is adjourned.
