ParlaMint-DK_20151105100013	The meeting is open. From members of the Danish Parliament Alex Ahrendtsen, Michael Aastrup Jensen, Anni Matthiesen, Nikolaj Villumsen, Mette Bock and Pia Olsen Dyhr, who are on leave, I have been informed that from 7 November 2015 onwards they can again meet at the Ting. Carsten Kudsks, Fatma Øktems, Hans Christian Thonings, Rasmus Vestergaard Madsens, Steen Holm Iversens and Sisse Marie Welling as temporary members of the Folketing cease to count from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health and the Elderly (Sophi Løhde): Bill no. L 44 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health and Social Security. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B 26 JensenProposal for a Parliament resolution on further Danish military contributions to UN peacekeeping operation MINUSMA in Mali). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20151105100124	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105100145	With this bill, the Folketing is implementing the EU directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State. This is a recasting of an existing directive, and the reason for this new version is that the European Commission, through a number of evaluations, has found that the existing directive has had very limited effect in relation to actually ensuring the return of illegally exported goods. The main changes in the directive, and hence the law, are that a number of restrictions on the items covered by the directive lapse and that it is now the individual Member States that define what is a national good compared to the previous ones, where it was a long EU listing that had to be changed all the time. Another amendment is that the time limit for bringing proceedings with claims for return is extended from one year to three years after the Member State claiming the object has become aware of where it is located; also the time limit for demonstrating that an illegally imported object is a cultural object is extended from two months to six months; and finally, the requirements for what the draft law calls necessary vigilance on the part of the person possessing the object are also tightened if compensation is to be obtained. The Socialists support the bill because it is absolutely necessary that we do what we can to prevent the illegal export of national cultural goods. Because it is not just a question of cultural heritage falling into the wrong hands in this way, and that is also often the subject of criminal commercial exploitation, but also of the fact that objects and cultural environments are often destroyed, for example. in connection with illegal excavations. After all, Denmark has also ratified the international convention covering this area, the so-called UNIDROIT Convention on the return of stolen or illegally executed cultural objects. For that reason too, the Danish Parliament must adopt the bill, with the clear support of the Social Democrats. On behalf of the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved, I should like to say that the Radical Left too is in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105100428	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105100446	The directive described here by the Minister and thus the legislative proposal is basically about the fact that cultural goods illegally exported by an EU country should, as far as possible, be returned where it belongs. We in the Danish People's Party can give absolute support to this bill, but it could have been interesting whether the law could have an effect on cultural goods that have been removed from Danish territory many years ago. I am thinking here of all the civilian spoils of war that the Swedes robbed during the wars between our countries back in the 1600s. The Danish People's Party wants the civilian spoils of war returned and has been pursuing this case for many years. Most recently, we presented B 37 in the 2008-09 Assembly on the exchange of civil war spoils between Sweden and Denmark. I call on the Minister to look at the proposal from then on, because it called on the government to start negotiations with the Swedish Government to return the Danish cultural treasures which they robbed us during the Swedish war in 1658 and 1659. These cultural treasures contain an invaluable part of the soul and identity of Danish history, and they therefore belong properly in Denmark. Denmark has shown good will and has returned artefacts to many other countries, including artefacts acquired not by acts of war, but by legal purchases, collections and finds. An example is the Icelandic manuscripts and the many artifacts from Greenland. What, then, are the cultural treasures that the Swedes have improperly? Yes, we can mention from Kronborg Frederik II's throne sky, from Frederiksborg Castle the Neptum fountain with the bronze sculptures and from Roskilde Cathedral Queen Margrethe I's wedding dress and the entire church's fixtures. There are immensely many more artifacts. I wonder if Swedish resistance is due to the fact that Swedish museums will in fact be emptied of cultural objects from before the 1700s, as most of them have actually been robbed in other countries. However, it is rather sad that the Swedes build their cultural heritage history from before the 1700s on Danish history. That is why we in the Danish People's Party hope that the bill we are discussing right now will have the effect that Denmark will have the civil war booth back from Sweden, which was illegally removed in the 1600s, and I would urge the Minister to take an interest in the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, B 37, from 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105100708	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Britt Bager, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105100737	In the Left, we regard cultural heritage as part of the backbone and DNA of the nations. We believe that cultural treasures and cultural goods help define us as people, and we are interested in protecting these important objects. Cultural objects must be handled responsibly and responsibly and we must ensure that they do not end up in the hands of people operating on the illegal market. This bill improves the possibility that cultural goods that have ended up in the wrong hands will return to the right owner. The draft law prevents cultural goods and cultural treasures from ending up in the illegal market. Because, in illegal trade, we are not only at risk of cultural goods being put into the wrong hands; we are also at risk of destroying and destroying irreplaceable cultural objects that help define us as a nation. We must stop the illegal trade and, at the same time, we must improve the possibilities for the return of illegally exported cultural goods that have ended up in the wrong hands. It helps this directive and thus this legislative proposal. The legislative proposal here is an amendment to an earlier directive which has proved to have some shortcomings. We are now getting this right. This proposal extends two deadlines. There will be more time to demonstrate that an illegally executed object is a cultural asset and there will be more time to take legal action. In addition, the conditions for compensation are clarified, administrative costs are reduced and it is now up to each Member State to define the cultural object. All in all, this is an improvement on the previous directive. The left stands guard over the cultural heritage of Denmark and other nations. We stand guard over the cultural goods that act as symbols of this. That is why the Left supports this bill. Then I'm going on behalf of sir. Nas Khade announces that Conservatives also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105100951	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105100956	Thank you. I think I can be relatively brief. We can support the proposal. It's a problem... a big problem, actually... with artifacts that are illegally removed from one country and carried out to another. Apart from the fact that this is really theft from the country concerned, it is also an attack on the country's ability to take care of their own cultural heritage, and that is why this proposal is good. The good things have already been mentioned by several rapporteurs, i.e. among others. the extension of the deadline for bringing proceedings for the return of cultural objects and for the definition of cultural objects to be determined by each country itself. There are some issues in which we will be botanying during the committee procedure, for example. whether it can really be called over-implementation, as the Minister does, to extend the deadline for filing a case for return than what is stated in this directive. Is it really over-implementation, or is it going ahead and showing a good example that others might follow? For example: We would also like to botanise in the fact that this is, after all, a directive which has its legal basis in EU law, which deals with the internal market. As the Association for Legal Affairs also points out, it is a bit strange that something which is absolutely not to be market-related has a legal basis in a law governing the internal market. Perhaps we would like to have a little more research done on this issue, whether it might have consequences in relation to EU law, otherwise, in relation to the possibilities of the European Court of Justice and so on. But all these things aren't something that changes the fact that we think this is a good proposal, and Enhedslisten can give his support to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101204	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101213	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance can also support this bill, which can be said to be sensible. It is about what has been illegally carried out, and it is clear that there must be rules for it, and we fully agree with the time-limits that lie here. Then I took note of the fact that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party pointed to the return of the spoils of war. That is probably very reasonable, and it is an interesting discussion. I then do not know how far back we have to go in time to think the thought to the end, i.e. back to Danish Vikings who have conquered and robbed in their time; whether we have to go back to the fact that we are going to hand in a lot, because there is the storytelling, that we actually had a pretty good profit from it. So it can be interesting history research • I don't know if we can find it all the way back to it, and it's not something I'm suggesting here that we should do, but it's just a natural thought in continuation of the discussion about how far back in history you should go and when we were bandits and when they were bandits. So this is an interesting discussion. But here is a proposal that we can support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101321	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101334	I can also do this very briefly, because I come as a number. 6 in the series of rapporteurs, and many have already explained what this quite good bill is about. What I would particularly like to note is that we are very pleased that we have just taken into consideration something that did not work optimally to see how to do better. And that is precisely what is being done with this new directive that has come from Parliament and the Council, where a number of things are being tightened up so that we ensure that cultural goods come back to the countries in which they belong. So in those words, I would like to say briefly that the alternative supports the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101414	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101426	A lot of sensible things have been said here from the platform about this bill, so I shall not repeat that. I just want to say that the SF supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101438	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101446	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank all the rapporteurs for the positive comments that have been made. Basically, cultural goods carried out by an EU country must be returned as far as possible, and it has been necessary to amend the directive because the previous directive has not been sufficiently effective. This is a problem because we need rules that deter thieves from engaging in illegal trade in cultural goods, and it is not only about cultural goods being able to get into the wrong hands, but also about cultural goods being destroyed, as we see most painfully happening outside the European Union at the moment. The new version of the directive contains a number of measures to facilitate the use of the directive. After all, Denmark has ratified an international convention on the same subject... the convention on the return of stolen or illegally executed cultural objects... which hopefully can have an effect outside the EU. I noted what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said about the spoils of war from the Swedish wars. After all, this is an exciting debate, which I myself have been concerned with for a time, and I was very active in the handover of half the Icelandic manuscripts. I believe in many ways that the relationship between friendly nations should be marked by the fact that one also looks at whether there are cultural goods that should come back where they belong. But, first of all, there are sovereign states which decide for themselves that we must respect that and, secondly, it has been quite a long time since the Swedes robbed something in Denmark. Moreover, I am not sure that they robbed it; I think it was part of the peace treaty. In any case, I have to say that the deadline we are talking about here is extended from one to three years and not from one to 300 years, which would not even be enough if we had to have the Swedish stolen goods back. Shouldn't we rejoice that the Law of Jutland was actually out here in the Walking Hall for a very long time? So you can talk about things between friendly nations. Sir. Søren Søndergaard asks whether a further extension of the deadline would not be possible without overimplementation. Of course, we can talk about that. The government's attitude to over-implementation is that we do not want the EU to be blamed for rules that we ourselves have created. It is not, of course, that we cannot, as it were, improve the EU's rules with a special Danish addition. We can do so, but then it is Danish legislation, not EU legislation, against which any disgruntled persons will be opposed. This is something that we will return to when it comes to copyright. Finally, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their kindness with regard to the proposal. And I look forward to being able to respond quickly to any questions that may be raised in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101850	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101908	The debate is open. It's sir. Jens Joel as the first rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105101936	Thank you for that, President. After all, this proposal is closely linked to the other legislation we have on energy labelling and the ecodesign directive, which is also European legislation. The key here is, of course, to have some environmental requirements, some energy requirements for products, so that they do not use more power than is most necessary, so that they are actually effective in the use of resources. But we also need to have some labels so that consumers can find out what is right to choose. Of course, when you have such an arrangement, which we fully support, it is also important to look at whether the Minister has the opportunity to enforce it. We in the Social Democratic Party support the things that lie in this proposal, which is about tightening up the possibility of enforcing legislation, in other words ensuring that companies provide the information that proves that their products are actually what they claim to be, that they actually meet the demands they make. In the present situation, where a fine can be imposed, it can sometimes not be enough, and sometimes you can end up in a very, very long procedure, because the companies are simply sitting on the information, and there we would like to give the Minister the opportunity to intervene and say: if you do not want to provide the required information, if you cannot prove that you have an environmentally friendly product, then you can eventually not be allowed to market it or withdraw your products from the market. So we generally support the requirements for ecodesign, we support energy labelling, and we think that this proposal is a tool to ensure not only that the rules exist but that they can actually be enforced in reality as well. Then there are also some other things in the proposal, for example on the better housing scheme, which was a matter which was widely agreed in the Parliament under the growth package and which we would like to use even more. It's being suggested by the government that it should be easier to spread this scheme. We support this as a starting point. It may be that there are some things we need to clarify further in the committee work, but as a starting point we want to push on so that the better housing system is spread as widely as possible. Similarly, there are also the things about the equivalence of remote cooling customers with electricity, gas and heating customers regarding billing and other things. In general, we support this proposal, which is fairly technical and perhaps a little nerdy in what is before us, but which is nevertheless about an important area, namely that we have to make demands on products that they should be environmentally sound and that consumers should be able to understand which products are best to buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105102221	Thank you. There is a brief comment. There's no one after all. So thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105102238	In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased with initiatives that are about energy efficiencyising our society. We very much believe that much of the energy legislation in Denmark is about how to support different forms of energy technology, which is an expensive way to change energy policy. That is why we are much happier when we can instead animate to use less energy. It is healthy for the economy, it is also healthy for the individual household and for the individual company that you spend less money on energy, i.e. that you make better use of energy and thus have more money left for other and more fun purposes than to pay for electricity and heat. That is the common denominator for all the many initiatives in the draft law here, and the Social Democrat rapporteur has already mentioned some of them. I have to say that I do not disagree with any of what the previous rapporteur said. When you have rules on ecodesign and energy labelling, it is, of course, important that the arrangements work, and therefore it is also important that the Minister has some enforcement tools for, for example. require a product to be withdrawn from the market if there is no evidence that the energy characteristics are as claimed. We also think it is important to make it clear that when energy labelling is to be made for a building by sale, when it comes to terraced houses or chain houses, which are legally owned apartments, but which are actually independent buildings, it is the owner who is responsible for making the energy marking, and so it is not the owner's association, and thus all of your neighbours, who jointly have to pay for this energy labelling. It is fair that it is the owner who wants to sell his home who is responsible. I would also like to say that it is quite reasonable that the terms of approval for counsellors in the better housing scheme should be made easier. It's all right to make those rules more flexible. In the Danish People's Party we think it is an excellent arrangement, and we just think it is a pity that no more people have joined the scheme. We hope that this will be done by making the rules more flexible. Another element that is also included in the legislative proposal is that it will be clarified which parts of the energy labelling are to be posted in larger buildings where there is public access. It has been unclear in the current rules how much of the energy labelling had to be posted, and therefore it could be interpreted there that it was the whole energy labelling report that had to be posted. It is then clarified here that it is in fact only, it can be said, the character of the scale to be shown. So that's an excellent improvement. After all, the last element of the bill is to make rules for billing for remote cooling customers, and rules are then made that are very parallel to the rules that already exist for electricity customers, gas and district heating customers, so that is pure logic from our point of view. So in the Danish People's Party we support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105102558	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105102605	Thank you for that, President. The aim of the draft law is to amend five energy laws, all of which are concerned with energy efficiency improvement. The draft law is therefore expected to contribute to achieving both energy savings and energy efficiency improvement. The previous rapporteurs in the Chair have made a punctual statement on the content of the draft law, which is why I do not think it appropriate to repeat it. I would therefore just like to say that the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105102641	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105102649	Thank you. We support a large number of the proposals included in this legislative package. We think there are a little unfinished business on two points. One is about energy labelling in owner associations and cooperatives with vertical boundaries. It is unclear what administrative and financial burdens are to be placed on individual owners or shareholders by each of them individually in charge of energy labelling. The comments to the draft law do not indicate it as an economic and administrative burden for citizens. However, according to the consultation notes, pages 2 and 3 of the Constructor's Association's comments, it appears that the association expects that the changes will mean an additional cost for the owners or shareholders concerned. We think it would be appropriate to know how many homes will experience the consequences of the law and what the average energy labelling cost per year will be. years will be for the cooperative and owner associations concerned. Another aspect is better housing, which is part of the growth plan 2013. The change will result in companies certified for better housing consultancy not having subcontractors, but only being able to refer to partners in order to deliver project management and thus a total contract for the entire energy renovation project. I think it is unclear what the consequences are. At first sight, it seems that the original idea of being able to get the whole package from one company goes out with the proposal. The same appeal has the Designer's Association, as shown in the consultation note, which highlights that there is a high probability of a shift of responsibility which should be guarded against, so that the two parties, the Energy Adviser and the Construction Board jointly guarantee the final result. I think that the Danish Energy Agency's response to those comments is not impressive. The Danish Energy Agency notes that the proposed change in the approval scheme for better housing consultants is to make it more flexible to cooperate with other better housing consultancy companies on the provision of tender collection and construction management. The Danish Energy Agency therefore considers that the comments do not give rise to amendments to the bill. We would like that to be clarified before the second reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105102922	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105102932	Virtually every 14 days we are presented with such a patchwork of legislative proposals in the field of energy, because adjustments need to be made. Often it is because the planned economic approach means that a new technology or a new pricing of technology has been overlooked which distorts the entire support system and thus the incentives it is all built up around. I have argued on several occasions that the many billions that we spend on top management of the economic system are doomed in advance, as we also see from the economic assumptions of the energy conciliation, which have already gone by hundreds of percent, as is shown by the financing part. I have also argued that if we can get people to save energy, it is really a gain for everyone and perhaps the very best energy policy we can bring in here, instead of putting certain technologies down the throats of people with state aid. As I read the bill, this gives a number of improvements to energy efficiency in the broad sense. I think this is very sensible, so that we are better able to enforce the necessary documentation on energy labelling, so that we have better communication and better procedures in this area and perhaps also better authorisation procedures. It is, of course, difficult to object to. It must be right to try and adjust where the system has proved inappropriate. That is how I read the proposal. Of course, we cannot object to that. After all, we have five legislative proposals to tamper with, as has already been mentioned. But that's the way it is in this energy area, which is really complex and incalculable. But we can support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103129	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103133	The draft law contains four parts: the first part is a tightening up of the rules on ecodesign and energy labelling, which must ensure effective supervision and thereby real energy savings, better consumer protection and improved conditions of competition. The next item is a clarification of the obligation to draw up energy labelling in buildings containing ownership and co-operative apartments. Paragraph 3 is easier authorisation requirements for better housing counselling. And point 4 is the harmonisation of the rules on invoicing for remote cooling with the rules on electricity, natural gas and district heating. The alternative actually believes that all four parts will remove barriers to a number of excellent climate initiatives. We therefore welcome the proposal and intend to support it. But I would also like to say that after Søren Egge Rasmussen's remarks, I look forward to delving into those aspects as well in committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103237	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103245	I will not repeat what my good colleagues have said about this bill. It is a legislative proposal that changes the framework for energy efficiency, so that we can hopefully get more of it, and we warmly support that from the Radical Left. This will help reduce CO2 we can only support, and that is why we will be happy to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103321	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Sisse Marie Welling, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103328	Thank you. It is very nice to see a proposal from the government which, for once, does not dismantle Denmark's leading position in climate and environment. In the SF, we always support debureaucratisation and regulatory simplifications that make it easier and more flexible to choose the energy-efficient solution that benefits our nature and our climate. That is why we can support all five technical adjustments that are part of the legislative proposal. However, we are concerned about the better housing scheme, making it easier to be approved as a consultancy company. This may well be a very good idea, but we are concerned that quality will be reduced in practice. That is why we intend to raise it in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103417	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103423	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have pointed out, this proposal affects several different laws, and the purpose of this is, among other things, to: to increase energy efficiency. I will not go through all the five elements Slavically; they have been so finely sketched already. However, I would like to highlight the changes to the rules on ecodesign and energy labelling. After all, it is rather illogical and somewhat inefficient that today the Minister does not already have the opportunity to sanction sufficiently if there are companies that do not provide the requested and, of course, necessary evidence of the energy efficiency of their products. The Minister now has some additional tools, such as the possibility of requiring the product to be withdrawn from the market if it is not constructive in the dialogue and provides the necessary documentation. Increasing energy efficiency is an important tool if we are to achieve the common objectives we have of reducing emissions. That is why we look forward to further examination by the committee and welcome the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103530	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103538	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs for their very positive comments on the draft law. As has been shown, the legislative proposal aims to amend the rules on ecodesign and energy labelling rules, the rules on energy labelling of buildings, the rules on the Better Housing Scheme and, finally, the rules on invoicing by remote cooling resulting from the Energy Efficiency Directive. The proposal therefore provides for five different laws to be amended with the same legislative proposal. The common denominator of the changes proposed is that they should all help to ensure higher energy efficiency. For the individual legislative proposals, there are minor changes, for example: the possibility of more effective enforcement of eco-design and energy labelling rules for products and of making it easier for businesses to be approved as better housing companies. Similarly, there are minor changes in the area of remote cooling, which is the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Directive, and of the rules on energy labelling of buildings. Overall, changes made by the legislative proposal will contribute to achieving better and more effective action in the area of energy efficiency improvement in general. I welcome the interest in the bill that has been expressed here in the Danish Parliament today, and I look forward to continuing discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in committee. With these comments, I hope for a sympathetic reception in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103717	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103733	The debate is open. It's sir. Matthias Tesfaye, Social Democracy, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105103746	Thank you. In the election campaign I took part in a panel debate at the West Region Language and Competence Centre together with the Left Karen Ellemann. Perhaps it was not so wise of us, as only the teachers of the full canteen had the right to vote, but it was a pretty good experience anyway, because in the canteen we were met by people from all over the world with a burning desire to become Danish citizens. They worked hard to acquire our strange and hard language, even at an adult age, to respect it. With this bill, we are fulfilling 6.284 of our neighbours, colleagues and family members' desire to be able to call themselves Danes. On the part of the Social Democrats, I would like to congratulate you warmly, and we look forward to sharing both the duties of citizenship and the rights with you. The Danes come in many colors. We are now a multi-ethnic society. It's not good, it's not bad, it's just the way it is. One should not believe in a certain god to be a Dane, nor should one eat anything special or dress in any special clothes or otherwise be or feel or believe anything special. But you have to know something special. One must be able to speak Danish because Danes talk Danish together, and one must want something special, namely respect and respect our constitution. Denmark is not New York City, where ethnic and religious communities live separately, where in Chinatown there are city signs in Chinese, where areas of the city actually have Spanish as their first language, and where it is widely recognised that some districts are Jewish. There is nothing wrong with the United States, but that is not how a welfare society can work, and that is not how it should work. Cultural separation weakens cohesion in Denmark and thus the basis for us to feel committed to each other. That is why we think it is perfectly acceptable that there are also requirements for Danish citizenship, in particular a requirement to master the Danish language. Societies with low taxes and divided residential areas, with separate school systems and with low cohesion may work, they may be able to cope with the fact that the population does not have a common language and thus a basis for strong cohesion, but that is not how Denmark can work, such a welfare society cannot work. This requires popular support for a high degree of redistribution, and this presupposes that we can identify with each other. We simply need to be able to have a conversation across ethnic, social, and religious backgrounds. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party is included in a new broad agreement on the rules that will apply to Danish citizenship in the future. We pulled the government's initiative in a good direction, so the rules have become more reasonable and clearer. Firstly, we have had to recognise that there have been too great differences in foreigners' access to the necessary Danish education. It's getting tightened up now. Secondly, the rules for admission to a legislative proposal are becoming clearer. Our ambition is that significantly fewer dispensations should be made around our Committee on the Rights of Citizens. Thirdly, the Social Democratic Party has ensured that the cases that have been squeezed between the old and the new rules are dealt with quickly. We understand very well that it can be a pity to have ended up between the old and the new rules, but we hope that the new, rapid procedure can be a patch on the wound. In the wake of the new rules and this bill, we have again seen individual cases debated in the press. This is a matter which I cannot quote from, since, like all other cases, it is subject to confidentiality. All of us who have read the case and know it are, as we are in other cases, subject to professional secrecy. That is why I think it is a mistake for individual members of the Committee on the Rights of the Child to have raised the matter in the press. I understand that several members of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Minister for Foreign Affairs do not want to grant citizenship to people who are anti-Democrats. The Socialists will not refuse to enter into discussions on the adjustment of the general rules, which are quite new, but if any party has concrete proposals to add anything, either to the declaration of loyalty signed by all applicants, or if any party wants the police intelligence service to change their security assessments, then we expect it to be formulated as general principles for granting the right of entry and within the provisions of the Constitution on freedom of expression, of course, so that we do not process on the basis of what individual members of the committee have Googled themselves down to the end. In conclusion, I would once again like to congratulate all of you who have worked hard to get your name on this bill. I hope we'll see you in spring citizenship day. Of course, the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104224	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104229	Thank you, Mr President. I think that there were many good tactics in the rapporteur's speech, and we fully agree that the crucial thing is that people should be able to talk to each other and that, of course, obtaining citizenship requires that they be able to speak the Danish language. Then I just can't really understand why this bill is from the last period, i.e. from before the elections, and it's something that has oversummered, so to speak, why the Social Democratic Party has granted so many exemptions, including when it comes to language requirements. I don't understand. And now that the rapporteur has given the fine reasons for this, i.e. for what citizenship should contain, I cannot understand why we are voting in favour of 2,500 derogations, most of which relate to derogations from a language requirement. In other words, with this bill, we will have citizens who cannot speak Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104330	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104331	With this bill will come new citizens who cannot speak Danish because they have been granted a derogation from the Danish requirement. We think it makes sense for there to be exemptions. We think that before the parliamentary elections too many dispensations were granted. That is also why we are pleased to be part of a new agreement which tightens it up. We hope that this will lead to fewer exemptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104357	Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104400	I recognize that. I look forward to that, because we shall then have to see whether it works in practice and whether the Social Democrats actually live up to the words of the rapporteur. However, I would like to say that we are going to table an amendment calling for the 2 500 cases to be re-examined. With what the rapporteur has said in his speech, I think it would be very natural to enter into a dialogue and, as it were, accept this amendment, because it is quite the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104441	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104442	I see this as an expectation on the part of the rapporteur. But I can tell you that we are firmly committed to what we have said in the Committee on Bodily Rights, namely that the 2,500 should be included in this bill. We will therefore not be in favour of an amendment to remove them. This is because they've been notified by the Ministry that they're on this bill, and we don't want the people who have gotten such a letter from the Ministry to be tampered with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104509	Thank you. And you don't talk directly to Members. Then there are a few more comments to be made to the rapporteur here before Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Christian Langballe. First, it's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104521	Thank you, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. It is called the President). I'm sorry! Of course it's called the President. It's never gonna happen again. Then I would like to begin by commending a good speech, both linguistically and also a long way along the way in terms of content. I regard this here today as an indication that the Socialists have made a change of course. Now we have to see how much the course has been changed, but at least now that one has been thrown out of the hands of the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, and more can pursue the policy that one is actually in favour of. I heard that it was said that too many exemptions have been granted in the last period. Then I should just like to say to the rapporteur's information, because the rapporteur is a new member of the Folketing, that the majority that granted all these many derogations included the Socialists. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104624	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104626	Well, we stand at full measure of everything we've done before the parliamentary elections. But you're right about... the whore Man still uses away not directly indictment). I'm sorry. However, the rapporteur is right to say that our ambition is that, during this period, fewer cases of derogation will have to be submitted to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Our starting point is that people who are to become Danish citizens must be able to have a conversation in Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104703	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104704	So I'm not sure I fully understood the point of that. When a matter is put before the committee and the committee are asked to decide whether or not to grant a derogation, the committee has two options. You can say yes, but you can say no. In other words, I hear that the Socialist rapporteur acknowledged that, in the last period, too many derogations had been accepted, which were submitted to the committee, among other things. because in some of the cases we've been sitting with, and I can say that without revealing confidential information, there are people who don't know two words Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104743	That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104749	Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104752	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that we have confidentiality. We must not reveal the names of applicants or talk so much about the details of their applications. Now it is the case that the person concerned, Belal El-Khatib, has himself appeared in various interviews in the press and has complained about the duration of the proceedings. After all, he is an Islamist, an anti-Democrat, one who has an ambition for another dream society. Do the Socialists believe that Belal El-Khatib should have Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104829	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104830	We are not in favour of the candidate in question being tampered with by this bill. Now he's been tampered with, so that's not what we're dealing with. But what is our starting point is that the rules we have for granting citizenship need to be general. So if the Conservative People's Party wants to change either in the declaration of loyalty or in what the Police Intelligence Service is screening for, we are open to a general discussion about it. What we are somewhat opposed to and somewhat critical of is the fact that a single matter which cannot be discussed in all its facets, because the matter is confidential and the information is confidential, is now also the subject of a political debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. We are not going to have a proper discussion of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104920	Sir. Naser Khader, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105104921	There is nothing confidential about his views on democracy. There is no confidentiality in his activity on the Islamist social media. There's nothing secret. But I have not heard the Social Democrats relate to his Islamist views, relate to his caliphate-dreaming society. We can discuss that. It's something you can google. It is not something that appears in his application. I have not heard the Social Democrats relate to his dream society. So I would like to ask again: do the Socialists believe that he should have obtained Danish citizenship? Shouldn't he have been tampered with by the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105006	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105007	I've answered that last one. The first thing the rapporteur mentions is that the Socialists have not dealt with the applicant's dream of a caliphate. To that I can say that we are fiercely opposed to it, of course. We are not in favour of any caliphate. However, to the extent that the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party wishes to discuss a specific matter, I would urge the rapporteur to raise the discussion in the Committee on Bodily Rights, where it is possible for all parties in the discussion to put all the information on the matter on the table. The matter I have before me contains information which the rapporteur very well knows makes this discussion a little more difficult than we can present here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105056	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105057	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and clear indications, we must say that the contribution of the Social Democratic Party to the future treatment of citizenship cases. Thank you, too, because the Social Democratic Party is firmly committed to the fact that when there has been a procedure and people have been informed of what the result is, it is a common political decency to stand by it, even though we have now been sitting for a few years and struggling with the fact that too many derogations have been granted. We have pointed this out time and time again. They are particularly given with the participation of the Social Democrats in those years. So if the opinion expressed by the Social Democrats now is the innermost meaning, the innermost soul, it is strange why the vote has been as it has been. Because that was not necessary, even in the agreement that lay there and otherwise we have the others in any case voted quite illegally in relation to the rules that were there. So the Social Democratic Party might as well have come up with a different result in those votes than they are. So why, in fact, if what the rapporteur is saying now is, should we say, the innermost soul of social democracy? However, I would like to thank you for the fact that the Social Democracy has remained at the table in the negotiations that are now in progress, but backwards it just looks weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105216	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105218	Thank you for the question. What I have expressed here from the platform is the innermost soul of social democracy. However, I can tell the rapporteur that when we voted in a way before the parliamentary elections, so that there was a derogation from the language requirement in a number of cases, it is also due to respect for the political agreement we had made with the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Radical Left. After all, it was translated into a circular letter, which we naturally respected and which we voted against on the basis of. Of course. The circular letter no longer exists or indeed it does, but it exists at the National Museum. Now there is a new political agreement, and of course we also have respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105257	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105259	In other words, the message here today is that there is agreement on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105311	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105317	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105319	Thank you very much. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur mentioned a letter which should have been sent to these applicants for citizenship, and it is supposedly the content of this letter which prevents the rapporteur from supporting the re-examination of the derogations. Can the rapporteur clarify what it is in this letter which, in the view of the rapporteur, prevents a re-examination of these derogations?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105349	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105350	Thank you for the question. There is nothing legal to prevent us from doing so, but if I am to lean on the language of the Liberal Alliance there is some political decency that prevents us from doing so to people who have tried to meet certain requirements set out in order to come up with a legislative proposal. They have met the requirements, or they have been granted exemption from them, and they have received a letter stating that they are included in the bill, and there has been no reservation in that letter. We do not think it is decent to come here after the parliamentary elections and inform those people that they cannot then appear in the bill. We do not see that as ordinary decency.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105428	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105431	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur can confirm that there is no legal obstacle to re-examining these matters. But since the rapporteur thinks that this is obscene to the applicants, does the rapporteur not think that it is obscene to the citizens who chose a new Parliament with a clear indication that they wanted a new course on this particular issue, that they do not respect their decision and their election in the parliamentary elections that they want a new course in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105502	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105504	No, because the new direction that the new Parliament is setting will, of course, have an influence, from the date of the political agreement and even 14 months back. So I believe that the will of the Danish people, which was expressed in the parliamentary elections and I actually agree with the interpretation you put forward, in relation to the result of the parliamentary elections, but...
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105530	I therefore have to remind the rapporteur for the third time that there is no direct indictment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105535	I'm sorry. I agree with the rapporteur's interpretation of the election result, but I also believe that the political agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives, the Left and the Danish People's Party is an expression of the fact that this signal has been heard here in the Danish Parliament, and it is even with 14 months' retroactive effect. I just do not think it is decent that those who have received a letter stating that they are included in the legislative proposal should now be informed that they are being tampered with again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105612	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105616	Thank you. I know that there are a lot of children and young people who have been born and have lived their entire lives here in Denmark, who think that it is deeply strange that they do not automatically acquire Danish citizenship and, for example, Danish citizenship. It seems that it is a lack of recognition of them as Danish citizens that they have to go up to a citizenship test where they have to answer questions about Struensee and about when the handball girls won the Olympics and who instructed the Olsen gang etc. to prove that they are really Danish, that is, since they are born and have lived their entire lives here in Denmark. Do the Socialists think that it is right that we should expose young people born in Denmark to this sort of thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105706	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105709	Thank you for the question. I disagree that this is something they are being subjected to as if it were a hard trial. However, we believe that it is right that people who wish to acquire citizenship should meet a number of requirements, including the test of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105726	Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105729	Okay, I'll pass that message on to them. The Social Democrats think it is fair that young people born in Denmark have never lived anywhere other than in Denmark are regarded as such, who have to go to tests to show that they are real Danes. I'll pass on the message. I'd like to ask you something else. The rapporteur said on the platform that we should be able to hold a conversation in Danish in order to obtain Danish citizenship, and that is why we have reached an agreement with the right. But that agreement introduces a demand for Danish 3 and I should like to say that it is easy to have a conversation in Danish with Danish 2. On the other hand, you sort out a lot of people who do not have a long education behind you when you demand Danish 3. I know that in the past the rapporteur has been very concerned about not using educational snobbery. Isn't this an expression of education snobbery?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105826	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105827	This indicates that higher requirements are required • it is entitled to Enhedslisten. But I do not agree with Enhedslisten that it sorts out many. Now the rapporteur must excuse me if I do not remember correctly, but I remember it as if the rapporteur said that many people do not have long higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105851	Thank you for that, and then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105859	Thank you very much. The people who have applied for citizenship, that is to say to be allowed to become Danish citizens, are, after all, some who have permanent residence here in Denmark, and that means that they will live their lives in Denmark. However, some of them suffer from ptsd and therefore cannot sufficiently learn the Danish language. Is it really a prerequisite for obtaining a Danish passport so that you do not have to apply for a visa for countries for which we others do not need to apply for a visa, and is it really a prerequisite for going to the polls that you can speak the extent of Danish which is determined here? For example: other Danes who cannot vote either because they may not fully understand the nature of the vote? Could it not be imagined that those people who cannot speak Danish sufficiently could be put into what they are voting on, by a spouse or by some who are in their language school? Is it really necessary to exclude them from voting because they cannot properly Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105105959	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110000	I have my doubts as to whether seven or eight questions were addressed to me, but if I have to answer the latter, i.e. whether it is really fair that people should not be granted the right to vote because they cannot properly speak Danish, I would say: yes, I do think that the starting point for obtaining citizenship and therefore voting rights should be that one can understand what is going on in the democratic conversation in Denmark. I think so, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110033	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110036	The rapporteur therefore believes that it is not possible to understand this by having talks with people who can Danish perfectly, that is to say, that one is necessarily weakly gifted because one cannot now cope with language skills. Danish is not a very easy language to get to know, and you have memory problems if you suffer from post-traumatic stress. But that is why one can well understand what is going on in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110101	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110104	I have not claimed that people who have post-traumatic stress are not able to understand what is going on in Danish society, but I will stand by the fact that it is necessary to be able to make a qualified vote, that one is able to follow what the public conversation in Denmark is about. I think that is essential. And it is not only by engaging in conversations with people you know, but also by knowing that you can understand what is happening in the radio newspaper, or read metroXpress or understand what we are discussing right now. I think that is actually quite important.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110137	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110143	I would like to follow up on Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's question. For Danish 2 is addressed to people with a short education, while Danish 3 is addressed to people with a medium or long education, and therefore the obvious question to the Social Democrats is: Do the Social Democrats think that people with a short education are worse Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110203	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110206	No, and it has been important for the Socialists to ensure in the political agreement that everyone who wants to apply for Danish citizenship will also have access to a Danish 3 test. It has to be said that I have been in these discussions before, where I did not quite know the background for Danish 2 and Danish 3 • that I have found an answer from the former government Minister of Education, who has tried to describe the level at which Danish 2 and Danish 3 can be understood. And she answers that Danish 2 corresponds to the first foreign language at the 9th-class level, that is, that a Dane had to be in English at the 9th-class level, whereas Danish 3 corresponds to a Dane having to be in English at the 10th-class level. I do not think that is totally unattainable. I do not think we are going to see many people who do not have access to Danish citizenship in the future. I think we are going to see that thousands of people are going to pass Danish 3 and fortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110312	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110315	I would very much like to take the Socialist rapporteur to a language school and show how it actually works. Because it is the case that you look at what educational background people come with, and if they have a short education, they start from Danish 2. That is why my question again is: do the Socialists not think that you are a good enough Dane if you only have a short education?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110340	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110343	Yes, the Social Democrats believe that you are, that is, a good Dane, if you have a short education, and I am happy to accept an invitation to a language centre. We can go to Skolevej in Glostrup, to the Western Region's Language and Competence Centre, which I regularly visit, and where I know more people who work, and I am familiar with how people are placed on the teams and how the teaching is arranged. And it is also in the light of experience that I do not think it is right to raise the language requirements set out in the political agreement that we have been involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110413	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110417	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I once read a really, really good book called "Smart Hands" and it's about the value of being able to work and do a solid job. Some of those who can use their wise hands are also those who do not necessarily have the strongest language. I think this is quite essential. Does the future of Denmark alone need people who can pass a language test 3, or do we need people who can pass a language test 2 as much?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110450	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110452	Future Denmark needs smart hands and smart heads. It's a motto for me. What we are discussing now is who should be granted citizenship, and in this respect I think it is quite crucial that people are able to have a qualified conversation in the language that is being discussed in our society. Otherwise, I fear that what I call cohesion the cohesion force is slipping away and that the foundations of the society that I know both the SF and the Social Democrats are disappearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110524	Sir. Jacob Mark has another point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110528	Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that if one is only able to speak a language at Danish level 2 which is also the case for a great many Danes, then one is unable, as a Dane, to form part of a cohesion, not able to participate in democracy and not really Danish in relation to being able to acquire Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110550	What matters to me has not been whether it was Danish 2 or Danish 3. What matters to me has been that fewer people were granted a derogation. What I am just saying is that I do not consider it alarmingly disastrous that we go from what is equivalent to 9th-class English to 10th-class English. I am actually quite optimistic about that. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110618	Thank you, then there are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105110626	I have the urge to start by saying that it is simply nonsense that the Ministry has given any promise that these people should be citizens. That would be contrary to the Constitution, since the only people who can give citizenship are the Folketing. That's the way it is. That means that the 2,500 put on the bill have received no promise. I think it was Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen who said it the first time, and that is simply nonsense. So it's just to stress that what's not right. And I don't understand why the Liberal Alliance has jumped that limp. 'Cause it's a limp. But then let's deal with this bill, where there's this 2,500 on it. With this bill, there's 10,000 people getting citizenship. I think I can see that, and as far as I have been able to examine it is a record. This bill is clearly the result of the totally irresponsible and destructive policy pursued by the Red Government from 2011 until the 2015 elections. The Social Democrats were leaders and, of course, they should be commended for taking responsibility, but they have, I think, put the bar so low that I have to ask myself whether we do not now, with this bill and with other legislative proposals that have come, create parallel societies of citizens who cannot Danish. I know that the global hallelujah humanism represented by this kind of world-removed charity has the advantage of being able to shine in the press and stand there and represent the party of goodness. The only thing is that you push the obvious massive problems ahead of you, and then you let future generations bear the burden. Actually, I don't think you can be familiar with that. We also legislate for the future of Denmark, and what we are doing with this charity is simply creating problems. The political choices we are making now have consequences, not only for the living, who inhabit our country, but indeed also for the descendants and children and generations who follow us. This is, of course, the case of refugee and immigration policy, which will draw deep marks and will determine the lives and conditions of future generations in a negative direction. And that has just happened in the course of a generation of refugee law anno 1983. There the borders were opened wide, and now we see, as it were, the result of this, namely that we are actually granting citizenship to 2,500, the majority of whom have been granted a derogation from the language requirement. I simply believe that if something is obscene, it is indeed. I think that this headless policy, in which one can stand and be neighborly on behalf of others, while future generations must then bear the burdens and consequences, is irresponsible and I think it is obscene. It will help undermine cohesion and strengthen parallel societies, which will now and in the future be destructive and destructive to the societies of the future. But what is the interest of the benevolent left? Not much, I don't think so. But just to put it as simply as it is: we cannot vote in favour of this proposal. We cannot vote for 2,500 people to be granted citizenship as a result of a derogation and we will, together with K, propose that the 2,500 cases be re-examined. And then I hope that some will take responsibility, because that is certainly what is needed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111045	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps this is not an entirely parliamentary expression. Christian Langballe Sorry). There are a number of brief comments. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111056	Thank you. Now it is no surprise that the Danish People's Party does not vote in favour. This is nothing new about this type of legislative proposal. But what I would like to ask is: Does it really matter to the Danish People's Party that people receive a letter from the Danish Ministry of Justice that they are now put on a bill and that it has been normal practice that when they got it, it was adopted in the Danish Parliament because the vote has taken place in committee? Doesn't that make an impression? Shouldn't you be able to count on a letter like that? In the Liberal Alliance, we have such a thing as political decency, and we see that there are people on the other end who are being approached by a public authority and therefore have to rely on such a signal. Doesn't that make an impression on the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111155	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111158	I would like to say that this is a limp on which the Liberal Alliance has jumped as a result of the myths of the left. There has never been any promise of citizenship. There's never been a promise. I have asked in the Ministry; there has never been a promise. And I would also say that if it were finally to be the case that such a promise was made by the Ministry, it would be a violation of the constitution. For the only people who can grant citizenship is the Folketing. Such a promise has never been made. But out of kindness, of general kindness, the Ministry announces that there are some who are included in the bill. But just listen to this: it is not an unknown practice that people are being tampered with, even bypassing this. It happens every time the bill comes close to being dealt with. Then there will be people being tampered with. If they're entitled to citizenship, I'll just have to ask. According to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, they must have that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111311	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111314	Now I just asked if it didn't impress the Danish People's Party at all, and then I can see that Mr. Christian Langballe just pulls off the record one more time. The Ministry felt called upon when elections were held to change that broadcast, namely with one reservation. This means that the people who received it without reservation could not fail to get the impression that it was valid. Actually, that's just what I was asking about if it doesn't even impress the Danish People's Party. And then I hear that we'll run the record one more time. So I have to say that it may not impress the Danish People's Party, what is political decency and standing by your word and things like that. That is not what is at the front of the cookbook, and I think that is a pity. That's just what I was asking you about. Christian Langballe, and not a question about what has been said over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111400	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111403	Listen to me, it is not me who is playing a record; it is the rapporteur, and so it is playing a fake and it has gone to nought. Because what is at issue is that the grounds for saying what the rapporteur says simply do not hold water. No promise has been made by the Ministry that the 2,500 on the bill can acquire citizenship. It's just so simple it is. That promise has never been made. I would say, then, that the letter that comes usually comes in connection with the bill, because the ministry of kindness will tell you that they are included in the bill. There's just no promise that they'll get citizenship. These are the two things that the rapporteur completely confuses, which is why I just have to answer as I do, and I have to repeat myself because you just jumped on a limp.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111456	Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111500	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur to clarify what burdens we are imposing on this society by giving citizenship to people who cannot Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111515	There is on the left, to which I count the alternative, a clear doctrine that it is a human right to obtain Danish citizenship and that, in this way, no demands should be made. I have never heard the alternative, in the debate that has been going on here in the Danish Parliament, specify what the requirements are for Danish citizenship. I have a feeling that everyone can actually get that. We are simply saying that we will not be involved in this because it creates parallel societies between citizens, and it is devastating. It doesn't now it's in progress but it will in 10, 20 and 30 years. There I would just like to ask: for how long has the Alternative intended to continue the practice of distributing citizenship? Is it 10 to 20 years from now?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111614	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111617	The alternative is that when you already have a permanent stay in Denmark, it is quite reasonable that after a certain number of years you are also allowed to go to the ballot boxes and also get a Danish passport. But I would like an answer to my question. The rapporteur said that the burden would be imposed on the Danish society and that this would be the consequence of granting citizenship, but what are the burdens to be imposed on society? And I and the alternative think that you just make parallel societies by having people in this country who are not allowed to have citizenship. It is a parallel society and it very much hampers integration. Everyone agrees on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111653	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111656	What I have to say is that we simply disagree completely. I believe I have both the story and the reality on my side. The totally irresponsible way in which the alternative, among other things, is done. Looking at citizenship will have consequences for future citizens in Denmark in the form of devastating parallel societies that act as a form of an island that has nothing to do with Denmark. That is what we are trying to counter with the demands we make. However, I can understand that there is in fact no requirement on the part of the Alternative to obtain Danish citizenship. Well, that's where we're gonna disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111739	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111743	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur and I have had some discussions about these citizenships. The rapporteur has put forward a proposal that people's opinions should be screened before they can have citizenship in Denmark, and then I just want to hear whether the rapporteur will elaborate on that proposal. How is this going to work in practice, and should those screenings also take place on these 2,500 people who are on this bill, if it was up to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111813	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111817	I could actually refer to the Minister's letter to the committee, which says that the person in question, all of whom are familiar with the name and which I shall not mention, has been tampered with on the grounds that he has anti-democratic views. For me, it is not a question of freedom of expression. It is a question of whether you live up to the declaration of loyalty that has been made, and respecting fundamental Danish legal principles also means accepting democracy as a framework. So if you want citizenship, you should not be an anti-democratic. No, I think that's excellent. That's what's in it. It is the relationship between the declaration of loyalty as part of the condition for obtaining citizenship and the fact that one then expresses oneself against what is contained in the declaration of loyalty. There you have it in black and white, so to speak. You know what you're getting into. This means that Danish democracy must be respected. If you then say you'd rather have a caliphate, you won't get any citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111922	Sir. Jacob Mark, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105111925	So the rapporteur would still like to have a position screening unit. So I would like to hear: what are the positions that are right? If, for example, we do not have the right attitude, then we do not have the right attitude. are Republicans? If, for example, we do not have the right attitude, then we do not have the right attitude. is a communist? Or is it only if you have a position on a caliphate that the positions are not right? As far as attitudes are concerned, they comply with the law in force, so yes, they have some other opinions, but as long as they comply with the law, that is all right. I just want to hear: what are the right attitudes? With regard to people with the attitudes I have just mentioned, i.e. Republicans, Communists and Anti-Democrats, as you call them, are none of them supposed to be able to acquire citizenship if it is up to DF?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112006	Wait a minute. All beginnings are difficult, that's the way it is, but you don't use direct charges at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112016	I would say that the wording of anti-democratic positions covers everything, of course. This is a general view which, of course, does not only have anything to do with Islamists who want to introduce caliphate. I think that is general considerations. I would also like to say that, for my sake, we can say what we want. No one has said anything about not being able to do so. I am just saying that the conditions for citizenship are that you sign a declaration of loyalty, in which you will be loyal to the fundamental principles that prevail here at home. If you do not accept them, you should not have citizenship, but I would actually say that the best thing would be to go where this lovely caliphate might be in its infancy, or somewhere where these principles thrive. There are some to agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112105	Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112109	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party simply does not answer the very simple question that is being asked. The Danish People's Party has been out in the press saying that there must be an attitude screening of all people seeking citizenship, and we should not seem to be based on whether attitudes and utterances are legal or not. No, we should start from whether a political majority likes those positions, i.e. whether they are anti-democratic or not, in the words of the rapporteur. I think it would be appropriate to have an answer to the very simple question, namely how this attitude screening should be carried out. You're gonna have a conversation with Mr. Knox? Christian Langballe, or how is this going to happen? That is one question. The second question is: people who call on other people not to use their voting rights are anti-democratic, according to Mr. Christian Langballe, or aren't they?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112211	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112214	We can go out in such a sophistication exercise, which is about splitting hair. By the way, I haven't talked about an attitude screening. I have talked about a screening unit that takes note of those statements, and if there are people who want to fight democracy and do not want to vouch for what democracy is, that is contrary to the declaration of loyalty that has been made, and then we should not have citizenship. It's so simple. Now, of course, we have had this discussion, and I think that when someone does not get citizenship because of his anti-democratic views, that should apply to everyone else on the basis of a principle of equal treatment, which I fully agree with the consideration of. It is natural, then, to lay down a principle based on a declaration of loyalty, and that is what this is all about. That means that people can pronounce what they want, but they just don't have citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112319	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112322	Sir. Christian Langballe calls it a sophistication exercise and pretends that this is something very big theoretical that has nothing to do with reality. But that has to do very much with reality, since the right wing has decided to reject an applicant for citizenship on the basis of his legitimate political statements. It is to me, and not just me, that I think it is completely unclear which statements will mean refusal of citizenship in future when we no longer rely on what is legal and illegal. So I ask again, and I would like a clear answer, preferably a yes or no: if you call on other people not to use their voting rights, can you have citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112405	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112408	If we do something that is contrary to the general democratic standards that we have at home and the framework of the people's regime, then we should not have citizenship. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112420	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112426	I would very much like to follow up on that. It would be nice if the rapporteur would just reply with a yes or no. So, people who call on others not to vote, must they be citizens, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112438	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112442	I think, to be perfectly honest, that this is a sophistication, because what are the grounds for this? If, at one point, my blessed mother has said that she did not think I should vote because she thought that the politicians who were were too foolish, then that is not contrary to the general democratic framework. In fact, I also believe that not going to the ballot box can be the expression of a democratic position because it is said that the politicians who are there are so miserable that they are not bothered to vote for them. Everyone's free to do that. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about the fact that either by peaceful means or, as it were, by violence or struggle, we will overthrow Danish democracy and introduce a caliphate instead. Are those people supposed to be citizens? Yes, I know that the Radicals think so, and I know that Enhedslisten thinks so, because they think that everyone should have citizenship. There must be no rules or conditions. Nothing needs to be done. I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112547	Mrs. Lotte Rod, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112550	Who's gonna sit here and check this out, and how are they gonna check it out? So, do they have to read all the newspapers, watch all the debates on television, or how are they going to find out?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112605	In other words, it is now on the plane of thought, and we will then have a proper proposal drawn up in which the details appear, but I would like to say that what we are obliged to do is, as it were, what we know. We are not obliged by what we do not know. The responsibility will cease. And what I have just said is that I would think it was fair that there was some sort of screening unit that took note if there were some people in the press or on some websites who expressed opinions that were and are so opposed to the rule of the people that it is simply a question of not recognising the very foundations of Danish democracy. And you don't have to have citizenship. I cannot understand why people should have citizenship and voting rights if that is something they do not accept at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112647	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105112658	Thank you, President. There are other men's spoons than those who are Danish They live in caves and fight all over then We have never done that The hot countries are anything...• Here I will stop my quote from Shu-bi-dua before the President stops me. But the Danish song that Shu-bi-dua made with his tongue in his cheek, i.e. an ironic glimpse in the eye, tells us a little about how we look at ourselves. When we talk about being Danish, we often use big words. We are talking about love, fatherland love, and note the word homeland, that is, our father, and the language we speak is our mother tongue, that is, our mother. So there are feelings about being a Dane or for that matter being anything else, because that is also how you look at yourself in other countries; there you also have a great love for your country. Therefore, we will be happy when others want to be part of the community when other people want to become Danish and not what they are already. But I would like to say to Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left that it is not the case that we in the Left think that you are a bad person because you are not a Dane. Well, I was asked if, if you can't Danish 3, you're a bad person, and you want to answer: No, of course you're not. Well, people from Australia, Argentina and Afghanistan are not bad people, but they are not Danes; but they are not bad people. So we are making demands on people from other countries, no matter where they come from. If you want to be Danish, you must know the language we speak in Denmark. One of the few things that really bind us as people is our language. And that is where we demand that you be able to pass the test called Danish 3. But if you've been here a long time, for nine years, and have been self-supporting and have been on your own and haven't been on hold for 81⁄2 years, then you can settle for Danish 2. I fully agree with Mr. Mattias Tesfaye in that it is requirements that it is possible to meet. And what if you can't? Yes, then there is an opportunity to seek exemption. There we in the Left believe that the political majority who sat before the elections was far too lenient with whom they granted a derogation. I don't think I can recall a single case that ended with a no. In other words, if you have applied for a derogation, you have been granted a derogation. And it is not a question of how we have not been able to meet the demands we made in this way. We, i.e. I am not a majority in the committee, because I voted against the motion for a resolution, which has granted derogations to people who could not speak two words Danish, and so it was not because they were dumb. If you don't know two words Danish, do you have to say that I had almost said for whatever reason you are rewarded with Danish citizenship? We in the Left do not think so, and we have voted against a number of the people we are dealing with today on this bill. We have done so in committee, but there has been a majority in committee who thought otherwise. There's been a lot of talk about these around here. 2,500 cases where derogations have been granted, and the Left has voted in favour of a maximum of 500 of them. In other words, we have voted against 2 000, but a majority of the committee felt that they should be put on the bill, and that is why they have come to the bill. And that should not cast a shadow over the many people on the bill that the Left would like to grant exemption. We can live by majority voting. But it is a fact that there are quite a lot of people on this list who, in the view of the Left, should not have Danish citizenship. There has also been a debate about one of the people originally proposed for the bill, but he is not on the bill. I do not remember who said that the matter had been raised in the press, but I would say that the matter was raised in the press by himself. So it was himself who chose to go to Politiken and complain his distress that he might not have Danish citizenship. He's the one who chose to make this a case. And the Left did not vote in favour of him in the first round because we did not think there was any reason to grant him a derogation. This is a person who is not self-employed and I do not reveal anything confidential by saying it, because it has been announced in the newspaper that a person who did not live up to the requirement of self-reliance, and that is why the Left has voted no, and we are glad that he is not on the bill. So it is a question of 6,284 people having Danish citizenship, and that is something that the majority of the committee thought should have. We are not in the majority on all points, but on many of the points we are and we look forward to the continued examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113202	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113209	Thank you. I understand that the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark, believes that applicants can be sorted out on the basis of legal political statements if a majority in the Folketing does not like these statements. I would like to know how the Left reacts to applicants who have serious psychiatric diagnoses. It could, for example, be done. be psychosis. Let us imagine an applicant who is psychotic and who is in favour of absolute monarchy, that is to say a declared anti-democratic, who even makes this position public. Is it the policy of the Left that this person should be refused his application for citizenship because in the open space he declares himself an anti-Democrat who is in favour of the absolute monarchy?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113259	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113303	I think it's gonna be a lot of thought now. So, will the Left give citizenship to someone who almost believes that he is Napoleon and walks around with a strange hat and with his hand inside his coat pocket? If you meet the criteria for Danish citizenship, you must of course have Danish citizenship. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113322	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113325	That's definitely not supposed to happen. The Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Child decides on matters relating to persons seeking exemption. A lot of these cases deal with people with serious psychiatric diagnosis. It is so conceivable that people with serious psychiatric diagnoses should express themselves anti-democratically, and so I would like to repeat my question to the Left, the Danish Liberal Party: do you think that people with serious psychiatric diagnoses expressing anti-democratic opinions should be denied Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113402	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113405	Yes, if they do not meet the criteria, they must not have Danish citizenship. That's the way it is. If we then have to decide whether or not there is something we think we are advocating for this person to have citizenship, and if it then appears that it is someone who is very anti-democratic, then that is not something that is positive. I would also like to draw your attention to the characteristics of Danish citizenship. It is, of course, among other things that you are a Dane and cannot be deported. It is not the case that because you have a psychiatric diagnosis, for example. If you're psychotic, you're prevented from practicing terror. Perhaps I had almost said quite the opposite. And that means that you will not be able to expel them afterwards. I wouldn't be so comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113447	Mrs. Lotte Rod, Radical Left, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113452	Does this mean that the Left does not recognise a psychiatric diagnosis as a disability that should grant dispensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113500	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113503	Yes, of course we recognise a psychiatric diagnosis, but whether or not to grant exemption must be based on an overall assessment of the case we are dealing with. It is not the case that because you have a psychiatric diagnosis, you cannot learn Danish, that is, it is nonsense. There are plenty of people with psychiatric diagnoses who speak quite well Danish. It is also the case that you have opportunities to get support to overcome your disability; you have the opportunity to get education, you have the opportunity to take the exam in private if you cannot be with other people. So there is every possibility that you can resolve your disability and get help to pass the Danish test despite a disability.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113547	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113550	Yeah, but now you don't just get an exemption like that. In other words, there has to be a medical certificate that there is a very specific reason why there is one particular thing you cannot live up to, for example. Because of a psychiatric diagnosis. That is why it is quite appropriate to hear from the Left whether this would call into question the whole Convention on Disability and compliance with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113619	Well, why don't we just shut down this Parliament's birthright committee and let some doctors sit and decide who's gonna have citizenship? So, that must be the conclusion of what the radical rapporteur says and, having followed the work of the Radical Left in the Committee on the Rights of Citizens, it is also a conclusion that could be reached. We are therefore taking this seriously, and we are granting derogations to people who we believe should have a derogation and who we believe should be Danish citizens. Then, of course, we look at what is wrong with them and what is stated in the medical certificates, but it is not so that because a doctor has written that the doctor believes that he should be a Danish citizen, that is how it should be. So it is up to us here in the Folketing to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113656	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113700	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur say that practice has been that of seeking a derogation, a derogation was granted. I just want to say that I am new now, so it may be that I have misunderstood something, but that has not actually been my impression. My impression has been that it has been on a case-by-case basis and that it has then been assessed in the Committee on the Rights of the Child as to whether this individual should be granted an exemption. So I just want to know whether the rapporteur actually believes that there has been the practice that if you applied for a derogation, you automatically got it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113733	Yes, that was the case in the last period when there was another political majority. So there was the Left and voted 'yes' to some and 'no' to many, and then there were parties which together constituted a majority, which voted 'yes' to reefs and scrubs, rubs and stumps.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113751	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113754	Then I would like to hear: before it comes up on the Committee on the Rights of the Child, it is certainly the case that it has to go through a procedure in which there are some officials who are much more capable than me who, like me, have to assess whether these people are entitled to exemption. So if you look together at all the people in Denmark who have applied for a derogation, even before it came up to the Committee on Birth Rights, is it still right that if they just applied for a derogation, they got it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113817	The rapporteur, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113820	I think the rapporteur is well aware that this is not what I meant and, if that is understood, it is, of course, a good thing that we are getting rid of this misunderstanding. For no, it is true that not everyone is applying for a derogation, and then the matter is put on the Committee on the Rights of the Child. There are some where the request for exemption is totally unfounded, which are rejected in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113844	Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113848	Yes, thank you very much. I understand from the rapporteur that in all cases he does not think that a declaration is enough to grant a derogation, for example. a declaration that the applicant concerned has post-traumatic stress. Will it be different when you ask for a medical certificate? Will the rapporteur use this as a basis for granting an exemption, in other words a medical certificate stating that he is experiencing post-traumatic stress to such an extent that he cannot actually learn Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113921	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105113925	Well, well, Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk makes it sound like you can't learn Danish if you have post-traumatic stress, you can. It may be difficult to learn Danish at Danish 3 level, perhaps even at Danish 2 level, but then came with a Danish 1 test; provide documentation that you have followed Danish teaching. In other words, exemptions have been granted to people who cannot even two words in Danish; exceptions have been granted to people who have not even tried, who have not been on a course, who have done nothing to learn Danish. Then I don't think you should have Danish citizenship, and then I kind of don't care what the reason is. Everyone can try, everyone can learn at some level; whether they are illiterate or have ptsd, it is therefore possible to acquire Danish basically. So make a derogation application if you can say: I am illiterate, I have ptsd, whatver, which means that I have not been able to achieve Danish 3 level. Well, then come show me something less. Show me something you can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105114034	Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105114037	Then I just don't understand why the new demands are that you should have a medical certificate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105114042	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105114045	This is because, in relation to some of the applications we have received, it has been quite doubtful whether those concerned actually have the diagnosis, ptsd, that the doctor has written, and so it is not necessarily something that the general practitioner is an expert in, that is to say, assessing whether you have ptsd. So it's a specialist that's more skilled than that. We have also seen, unfortunately, cases in which it has to be said that there have been some rather dubious medical statements. I must now be careful what I say. But there have been some very dubious, completely identical medical statements on a number of people who, according to the doctor concerned, had all ptsd.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105114122	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more questioners. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105114138	The Enhedslisten will, of course, vote in favour of this bill, and I believe that there are a great many of the people whose name is on the bill who are sitting out there holding their breath and are insanely concerned about whether or not they are getting the citizenship they are looking for. And I understand that uncertainty, because the course of this bill has, to say the least, been chaotic, and apart from the fact that it has been chaotic, I think it has actually been quite unreasonable in terms of such general principles of law. I would like to spend some time talking about this, even if it becomes rather technical and nerdy. Let us start with the people who stood on Bill L 188, that is, the bill that only had to be dealt with thirdly when the elections were held. As you know, the Minister of Foreign Affairs wanted to remove 1.554 of the 3,314 persons on the bill, despite the fact that they had all been presented with their cases on the Committee on the Rights of the Parliament and that a majority of the committee had granted them an exemption. Afterwards they had received a letter in the mail informing them that they had now been admitted to the bill, and only 6 days separated them from a Danish citizenship because the then Prime Minister printed elections six days before the third reading. On top of that, it seems that it was so important for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to prevent these people from obtaining the citizenship they were promised, that the Minister overheard the decision taken by the Committee on the Rights of Citizens on 13 August. It is quite unheard of, and I am not aware of it before, that a minister will not follow the majority decision of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and thus actually refuse to follow the majority of the Danish Parliament. Only when the committee decided for the second time, on 3 September, that these 1,554 people should of course have their citizenship, did the Minister of Foreign Affairs accept the rules of democracy and included them in the bill. In addition to this group, I would like to mention the approx. 1.000 persons who were admitted to the October bill with a derogation, who had received a letter of admission from the Office without reservation before 4 June. The group of people would also prevent the Minister of Foreign Affairs from obtaining citizenship, the citizenship that they were promised. Only because the Liberal Alliance joined forces with the parties in the red bloc and insisted that people who have a legitimate expectation of Danish citizenship should, of course, have it, did it manage to prevent the quite unreasonable attempts by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on leghold traps. On the other hand, there is also a group of people who have received a letter after 4 June that they can expect to be admitted to the bill, which has received such a small reservation in the letter because the Ministry has written in their letter of admission, and I quote: 'If the current guidelines do not change'. This group is not included in the bill, and that applies regardless of whether they comply with the general guidelines or whether it is applicants who have been granted a derogation on the Committee on Bodily Rights. I think it's out of order that these people aren't on the bill. Firstly, it is essentially a case of whether the applicants have received an admission letter before or after 4 June, and secondly, these people lived up to the rules when they submitted their application, and it is typically more than a year since they sent their application. I don't think it belongs anywhere. I would also like to make a comment on the completely new practice which appears to have come into the Danish Parliament, namely that applicants are now sorted out on the basis of statements and opinions, despite the fact that these statements are fully legal. The person who has been sorted by the right on this bill has neither been charged nor convicted for anything, and we know that PET has not recommended that he be removed from the bill. I believe that this person's views on the caliphate are far out, just as I also strongly disagreed with this person when, as youth chairman of the Danish People's Party Youth in Roskilde, he had blew his hair, wore blue contact lenses and thought that the Muslim scarf should be banned in Denmark. At that time, I also disagreed deeply with him. But like I said, the young man has done nothing illegal. Sir. Naser Khader and the Foreign Minister claim to protect democracy, but it is certainly not a democracy that politicians allow the granting of rights to depend on the legitimate political statements of citizens, no matter how disagreeing they are with those statements. On the contrary, this kind of mind control means I belong in totalitarian societies. In addition, this certainly raises a number of questions, because according to the right, when is one loyal to Denmark, if we are no longer to rely on whether the statements that have been made are legal or not. What about Jehovah's Witnesses who urge their members not to vote? What about the philosophy student from Aarhus University who has published a book stating that you should not use your voting rights? Are they loyal to Denmark? And what about people with severe psychiatric diagnoses? People with serious psychiatric diagnoses expressing themselves against democracy should they also be refused Danish citizenship? We have not had an answer to these questions, even during the debate. I think the right wing owes that. Then I would like to finish by quoting a quote, because the author Aydin Soei, who is also a journalist, wrote a novel in Berlingske on 1 November, and I can see from the President that I cannot make the quote, but the point of the quote is that you go very hard for the Islamists who say: don't vote, don't use democracy. I fully agree with that criticism, but it is strange that the right wing is doing so much at the same time to prevent people who live in Denmark from living in Denmark from paying taxes in Denmark from having the right vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105114800	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the Minister must also go on, so we will have lunch until 8 a.m. 13.00. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130003	The sitting is resumed. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130025	I would like to know if the rapporteur can answer what Enhedslisten thinks there should be requirements for Danish citizenship. Now the Parliament's intelligence service, I'm sorry, it was a statement, but the Parliament's intelligence service has something like that that we would like to have There, I would like to know if a terrorist should have citizenship. Does someone who has planned terror need citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130124	I do not know whether the Parliamentary secret service was actually a statement, since a very central part of the debate we have had today is that the right wing, including the Danish People's Party, believes that applications for citizenship can be sorted out on the basis of legal political statements. So the Parliament's intelligence service is quite accurate. Then you will be asked what it takes to obtain Danish citizenship if it is for Enhedslisten. First of all, I would like to say that I mean quite openly that if you were born and raised in Denmark, you must have a Danish citizenship. I believe that if you were born in Denmark, you are as Danish as I am. I think it is far-fetched, to say the least, that we are putting young people who have had their childhood in Denmark and their teenage years in Denmark to the test in the Kalmar Union and Struensee. I think it is damaging integration rather than promoting it. On the question of terrorism: I think it is a good thing to make demands on crime, including, of course, terrorism, but people born in Denmark must of course, if it is up to me, automatically have citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130235	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130237	But then I ask again, because I think the rapporteur came a little lightly over what really needs to be done to obtain Danish citizenship. What about language requirements? What about residence requirements? What about those things? You can be born and raised in Denmark without being able to speak the Danish language properly. What does it really take? I think that Enhedslisten is constantly making himself the representatives of goodness here on Earth and, of course, never even comes up with what they think should be the conditions for obtaining citizenship. After all, it has been generously distributed by Enhedslisten, including with regard to exemption cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130317	For me, it is absolutely fundamental that if you are born in a country, you must have citizenship there. And it is my impression that there are very many people in Denmark who believe that this is the case. There are a lot of people who are surprised when you say that just because you were born in Denmark and have lived here all your life, you do not get Danish citizenship for that reason. I fully understand that in the Danish People's Party, it doesn't matter that people were born and raised here. But it is fundamental to me, and I believe that you are as Danish as I am if you were born in Denmark. With regard to language requirements: I think it is good to make language requirements, but it should be language requirements that people can meet. Danish 3, which is what the Danish People's Party has introduced, will sort out a lot of people who do not have a long educational background. I think that's educational snobbery.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130406	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130407	In the last 14 days we have been talking about an anti-Democrat and Islamist who we believe does not live up to the declaration of loyalty. I have two questions. The first question is: does the rapporteur think that Belal El-Khatib, now his name is known to the public, lives up to the declaration of loyalty? The second question is: Will the rapporteur equate Jehovah's Witnesses with jihadists? After all, Jehovah's Witnesses have been used as an example of anti - Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130448	I do not use Jehovah's Witnesses as an example of anti - Democrats. But I've noticed that sir... Naser Khader has produced and quoted the young man, who is now being denied citizenship, despite the fact that he has done nothing illegal, is not suspected of anything, has not spoken in violation of the law. The young man has among other things: referred to the fact that he did not think that Muslims should vote. I strongly disagree with that too, sir. Naser Khader is. Sir. Naser Khader has said that if the young man says that Muslims should not vote, he is anti-democratic. Then I have just pointed out that there are other people in Danish society who are also calling for a non-voting vote to be taken, for example. Jehovah's Witnesses. And if it's going to apply to this young man when he tells a certain group of people in Danish society not to vote and he's so anti-democratic why shouldn't that apply to other groups in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130541	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130543	I do not believe that the fact that Jehovah's Witnesses invite their members not to vote has anything to do with being an anti-democratic. They do not have an agenda to abolish democracy. They respect democracy and the rules of democracy, they accept and respect what exists. It's a big difference compared to people who are in favour of the caliphate. The rapporteur must look at the whole package. It has nothing to do with the fact that the person concerned is calling for a non-voting vote. It is just a small element of a larger package that among other things. It is about the fact that he is also in favour of the stoning of women, which is one of the most terrible things that exists. So it is the whole package that we have to look at, and not just the fact that he is calling for a non-voting vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130630	I heard Mr. Naser Khader, as if he were in favour of stoning Finn women. Naser Khader, that now I think it is going to be very interesting, because it is evident that it is not the fact that he does not think that Muslims should vote that makes him unable to acquire citizenship. This is all No, how interesting it would be for everyone, I think, in Denmark, if Mr. Naser Khader could account for exactly what the whole package consists of. When it is interesting, it is because it has so far been the case that one was not sorted out on the basis of legal political statements. And, I'd like to say to Mr. Naser Khader, for me it is fundamental in a rule of law, in a democracy that we have the right to express ourselves. I fundamentally disagree with this young man when he says that he supports the caliphate, just as I disagreed when he was the youth chairman of the Danish People's Party, but I will always defend people's right to express myself, even when I disagree with them. And it is a slippery slope if the members of parliament are about to sit and play tasters and perform mental control over legitimate political utterances.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130740	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130743	I have two questions, and I should like a clear answer: yes or no. The rapporteur for the Enhedslisten says that if you are born and raised in Denmark, you must have Danish citizenship. It also applies if you have come here as a small one, for example. Like 3-4 years old? That was one question. And the second question is this: even if you have committed serious crime, for example. rape or terror?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130808	Firstly, if you are born and raised in Denmark, yes, I think you should have Danish citizenship, even if you commit crime. Because I think you're Danish if you're born and raised in Denmark. I don't see what it has to do with having parents who come from another country. One of the arguments I often hear is that one must be able to demonstrate. But do you want to expel people who were born and raised in Denmark? And where are they to be deported? It is surely not the responsibility of their parents' countries of origin that people born and raised in Denmark commit crime. Yes, so I can promise that I think that citizens born in Denmark, who grow up in Denmark, should have citizenship. Then Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, second of all, what if they got here when they were three or four? And that's relevant. I have not set such a precise limit, but I certainly think that we could consider making the same guidelines for children who have come here as quite young people. As I said, I consider these people to be as Danish as I am and as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130905	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130907	It's a difference between us. Because I am looking at things, for example. not the gypsy boss, Levakovic, mentioned in the media, who is violently Danish and certainly not very well integrated. I would very much like to see him where the pepper grows, and if that is not possible, at least to his homeland. We in the Left believe that parents have a certain responsibility for their children, and if you as parents abandon your parental responsibility and allow your children to grow up and commit serious crime, then we believe that there should be an opportunity to expel them, and we do not believe that it is possible to do so. automatic must have Danish citizenship. But there I understand it is then another difference between the Enhedslisten and the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105130946	You know what, sir? Jan E. Jørgensen... Jan E. Jørgensen what, I can say, to be correct, I have talked to a lot of young people who were born here in Denmark and who have always thought that they were Danish and that they were just as Danish as those with whom they were classed, and when they turn 18, they suddenly find out that hoof, now they are going to test. And in that test they have to answer questions that their classmates cannot answer, for example.: What was the Kalmar Union? When did the handball girls win the Olympics? Who directed the Olsen gang movies? I believe that integration is detrimental to sending the clear signal to young people, that they are outside, and that they are not as Danish as their comrades, as those with whom they go to school, and I think it is quite ridiculous if you want to integrate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131034	No one else has asked to speak, so I thank the rapporteur. And then I will give the floor to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131052	Thank you. It is actually a landmark meeting that we have here today because we say goodbye to four years of politics in this area, which has been dictated by the extreme left in Danish politics, and which unfortunately dragged Social Democracy along on the same road, namely to give citizenship to a large number of people who, in the view of the Liberal Alliance, should not have Danish citizenship because it is not possible to integrate them into Danish society. And that's the point, isn't it? When you meet someone who reaches out for a Danish citizenship and they do so in earnest, it is because the people we suppose will be part of the Danish society, can participate in our democracy, can be part of the life we live. And a number of the derogation applicants that we have had and have had, and to which the red majority has been saying yes for four years, have not had a chance because they have not been able to meet the expectations and meet the requirements of general language skills that would enable them to become part of Danish society. That is why it has been a really bad time when a large number of people have received a yes, especially inspired by perhaps the extreme left, which I have hardly heard able to say no to anyone, regardless of what the application looked like. The new agreement we have reached will be over that period and we in the Liberal Alliance are very pleased that we will get there, that there will be a vote, a procedure that will produce a completely different result. For the reality is that the majority in the Folketing today, in the votes that have been in the last four years, has said no, no and again no to the vast majority of them. If we now have a legislative proposal in this landmark meeting which contains a large number of people who, in part of the Folketing, do not think that we should have a 'yes', then we are dealing with a question of principle. That is why I would like to reiterate the position of the Liberal Alliance in this case on this legislative proposal, which I believe is well known, but I would nevertheless like to repeat it. For historical reasons, the fact is that once the committee has examined the applications, it has been decided whether it is a yes or a no to an applicant. There has apparently been the practice of giving the persons concerned a notice, at that time from the Ministry of Justice, that their case has been dealt with, that there is no more information to seek their approval and that they will be put on the bill next time. You get an unqualified report of that. When parliamentary elections were then held, it is changed to write a letter to those who have been dealt with, with a reservation, a reservation on the situation of changing the rules. And that has happened. That is why, in the Liberal Alliance, we found that political decency, general credibility, commanded us to draw a line in the sand on the day of parliamentary elections, namely to say to those who have received a letter without reservation that when you receive a letter from the Ministry of Justice, you must be able to count on it. That is why we firmly believe that they should of course not be re-examined and thus be rejected, even though the Liberal Alliance has said no to a large part of them and would never vote in favour of them if we looked at the applications. But this is a matter of principle and political credibility, and we stand firm on that. On the other hand, we are quite ready to read and it is also in progress that have received a letter with a reservation. In our view, this is a normal policy, so regardless of the fact that this debate has flared up in recent days, I would say that it is a blow in the air that can be seen. It has not even been on the ground, and we actually reached that conclusion some time ago when we established it with the new rules. So I would just like to say that we can support the legislative proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131521	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131523	I understand that the granting of citizenship from now on must be based on whether a political majority in Christiansborg considers that the statements made by the applicant are reasonable or not, although these statements are perfectly legitimate. I would like to hear how the Liberal Alliance deals with people with serious psychiatric diagnoses. Let us imagine that an applicant has made anti-democratic statements in the press and that this applicant has serious psychiatric diagnoses. In that case, we would have access to these diagnoses and medical declarations on the Committee on the Rights of the Parliament. What does the Liberal Alliance mean to do with such a case? In other words, one might very well imagine that, for example. A psychotic person makes crazy statements. Should such crazy statements lead to a refusal of citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131629	You can imagine anything. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen says something about the political majority. It was also a political majority who, for four years, said yes to everything between heaven and earth, so I would say that it will always be the political majority who decides what to weight when giving Danish citizenship. We fully agree with the rules that have been made now and that will apply in the future. Then there is the question which, of course, has been raised by the individual who has been taken out of this bill now. We would like to say that we in the Liberal Alliance have the basic view that we say no to people who reach out for Danish citizenship and in the same breath in the open space say that they do not respect our democracy, that is to say that they are anti-democratic and thus do not support the values that we have and that are otherwise signed up to when you reach out for Danish citizenship. So when we express ourselves in this way, we are not blind to it. We are not blind and deaf, and so we will say no. And then you have to find out if the attitude of the person changes, and then you have to look again.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131734	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131735	Anything can be imagined, says the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, but this is not a thoughtful example. In Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Child, we regularly examine requests for exemption from people with serious psychiatric diagnosis such as: psychosis and schizophrenia. Now it has happened that the right has introduced a new practice which means that you can be denied citizenship if you have made crazy statements. What is the attitude of people with serious psychiatric diagnoses? Does the Liberal Alliance believe that it is fair to refuse, for example? a schizophrenic and psychotic man citizenship, if he has made anti-democratic statements?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131817	The fact is that we are entirely in agreement with the statements that are being made, for example. That in the open space you mark that you are an anti-democratic and that you are not in favour of these values, which, moreover, you are required to sign. Then, of course, you can analyze all kinds of diseases, and hopefully it is described in those applications. After all, we cannot discuss the individual's application, but we will maintain that we will be very careful whether one is anti-democratic when one reaches out to Danish citizenship. We see it as a serious matter to seek Danish citizenship, and so we will say no in cases where we are aware of it. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131854	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105131855	I would like to start by saying that it is true that we have made a good deal that the Liberal Alliance has actively taken part in getting it done, and I fully acknowledge that, so I start by commending a little. But when we discuss this law, there are just some things I do not really understand, because the rapporteur makes some assumptions that are simply not right. Is that letter that came from the Ministry a promise that people have acquired citizenship? Well, it's like you assume it is, which it isn't. I've been asking in the ministry, is there anything in these words that might even look like a promise? No, they say. Well, I don't really understand what it is that is the problem in terms of having these 2,500 cases re-examined, because I think that is quite obvious. I would also like to say a little about the Enhedslisten's rapporteur: yes, it is a majority in the Danish Parliament who decides who should have citizenship, in each case in relation to derogations. It's always been like that. We disagree with Enhedslisten, and that is now the case. But it is a political majority that decides who should have citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132013	I'd like to sketch it out. The fact is that the proceedings in the Folketing, when the committee has been completed and assessed, were in progress, and the case was even the first dealt with. A number of political parties, who are also present here today, have stood here and welcomed these people at the first reading of the bill which has now been retabled as another. And if those people out there, in addition to the letter from the Ministry of Justice without reservation and a first reading in the Folketing, where they are welcomed as new citizens, are therefore told that, by the way, it is equally important, because now you have thought of something else, so they should not count on a public authority, they should not count on the Folketing, where are we? I ask Mr. Christian Langballe. It is politically untrustworthy. So, regardless of how you interpret a letter from the Ministry of Justice, I just want to stress that ordinary political decency for us and for me is that a word is a word and an agreement is an agreement. And I see it as such that there we have given these people our word that they can count on it if they do not do something stupid or have become criminal in the meantime. It's ordinary political decency, and it is, regardless of whether Mr. Christian Langballe calls it promises or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132118	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132119	Now I would like to start by saying that we have made no promise at all on the part of our party that we will vote in favour of this bill. On the contrary, we have promised that we will vote no. It's as simple as that. But I would also like to say: a letter without any reservations about what? In other words, the content of the letter must be of interest to the rapporteur. What's in that letter? Has a promise been given that these people had acquired citizenship? It would then be a breach of the Constitution that the Ministry could grant citizenship, because that would, so to speak, be the practical consequence of it. So I simply do not understand the argument in relation to the reference to a letter which merely states that people are included in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132203	It is certainly true that the Danish People's Party has not made any promise. The Danish People's Party has not stood here and welcomed anyone, for they tend to vote against the proposal. That is why this is a rather difficult discussion. It is not a question of whether Mr. Christian Langballe and his party had to do something different from what they used to do. They do, no matter who said yes or no. I do not know what the future will bring when we now have a vote in relation to the new rules. Christian Langballe has been a part of. Will we then experience a Danish People's Party that goes to the Assembly Hall and will vote in favour? It's gonna be exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132229	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132232	I would like to commend the Liberal Alliance for having joined the majority that refuses to commend the anti-democratic and Islamist Belal El-Khatib citizenship. I also understand that the rapporteur has sat on previous Committees on the Rights of the Birth and has seen these matters, but as a new member of the committee I have not had the opportunity to see these matters. That is why I have insisted that I would like to see the 2,500 exemption applications, also because I have received so many e-mails over the last month, citizens' requests, from people about some of those who stand to get citizenship, and are among the 2,500. There are a few who are accused of being Islamists, some who are accused of buying medical certificates. I do not know whether that is right or whether it is just allegations, but would it not be fair to support an amendment to re-examine them so that we can find out whether this is going to last?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132343	May I just say to the end: we cannot, of course, because we have citizens' requests that there are some who believe that others are something, so start acting in this regard. We point out that if we express ourselves in the open space in an anti-democratic way, we would like to listen. Then it is the person himself who has spoken. Then to the question that Mr. Naser Khader is a new rapporteur. Now it is no problem that there will be new rapporteurs, because the party has just had someone else to deal with it in the past. So if there is to be any credibility in politics at all, then the party must stand by its position and know where it has stood at that time, otherwise there could be many funny new readings every time a new rapporteur came on from another party. That is why I have taken the view that the Conservative People's Party remains the Conservative People's Party, even though it is now Mr Conservatives. Naser Khader, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132431	Sir. Naser Khader
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132433	Now the rapporteur knows that when we sit as case officers and deal with those requests for exemption, it is also many times subjective how we deal with the application. Do I believe in the applicant? Maybe I'll give a person a yes. Let us take an example. I have no problem with being large and giving a person who was born in 1930 in Iraq, who is illiterate and simply cannot learn Danish citizenship. Another from another party may have a different attitude and therefore there is also some subjectivity in it. That is why two rapporteurs from the same party can have different views on the same matter, and that is why I think it is my right to be able to see these matters too.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132525	I would remind you that when I stand up, it is because the time has passed and then you can round off your speech. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132531	I do not think it is the right of the rapporteur to see these matters. When a party has taken part in that assessment with a rapporteur at the time, it must stand up to believers, otherwise I believe that political work will be impossible.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132543	Then there's no more in the series of speeches. I thank the rapporteur and give the floor to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105132556	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to congratulate and warmly welcome all those who have come to be on this bill and who will thus become Danish citizens. I do not think that we, who have been given citizenship as a birthday gift, can understand how much it means to get Danish citizenship and become an integral part of the society in which we live. Because of the announcement of the election and the disappearance of L 188, there has been considerable doubt as to who would come up with this bill. This has given rise to a number of worried enquiries and rightly so. Because after the Committee on Birth decided that all those who had been informed that they had been admitted to L 188 would be transferred to L 36, the Minister for Integration tried to get the committee to change its decision and put the persons who had been approved to L 188 to a new vote in committee following new guidelines which had not yet been adopted. I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, for this to fail. This is the first time that a minister has tried to disqualify the decision of the Committee on Bodily Rights, but unfortunately it was not the last one. For the Minister for Integration has also subsequently asked the Committee on the Rights of the Child to vote in favour of removing a young man from the bill, it is said, because, because of anti-democratic attitudes, he did not deserve to become a Danish citizen. The young man has used his freedom of speech to encourage Muslims not to exercise their right to vote, and he declares himself a supporter of a caliphate. At the same time, however, he has expressly pointed out that he wants the caliphate to be introduced democratically. Yes, laugh; it will not be introduced by democratic means in Denmark, but he will do his part to ensure that it can be. He also maintains that he stands fully by what he has signed by promises of loyalty to Denmark, which must be signed to be included in the bill. The decision to remove him, which was taken by a narrow majority of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, has given rise to a large number of worrying opinions, including: from senior researcher in citizenship at the Institute of Human Rights Eva Ersbøll, who says that there are no firm laws that one should not express oneself undemocraticly when applying for citizenship, and therefore violates the decision with the principle that everyone is equal before the law. She also says that the person concerned can go to court. Former Minister for Integration Birthe Rønn Hornbech writes in Politiken that we are now punishing an immigrant by denying him citizenship because of mental disposition. It has little to do with democracy and the rule of law, according to Birthe Rønn Hornbech. She says that freedom of opinion in Denmark is a bad thing and that the problem is that freedom of expression and opinion is not just a constitutional right, but a right that we Danes usually pay tribute to, as was our religion. As far as Birthe Rønn Hornbech adds: "How often have you read and heard the many who will not tolerate the restriction of freedom of expression under any circumstances? But this obviously does not apply when it comes to the granting of citizenship. Mette Fugl quotes in the same issue of Politiken's lawyer Thorkild Høyer, to say: utterances kept within the limits of the law must not be weighed and evaluated. The young man has not spoken in violation of the law, and then, however unsympathetic his attitudes may be, he must be able to acquire citizenship. Of course, I strongly disagree with the young man, both in relation to a caliphate and in not using his right to vote. But I couldn't dream of exercising control of my mind and denying him citizenship. This is an extremely problematic road to go, and it is at least as undemocratic as the undemocratic position that the committee accuses the young man of having. On the whole, the total arbitrariness under which citizenship is granted by the Committee on Bodily Rights is also deeply problematic. There is a circular letter indicating when the Committee may grant a derogation, but it is widely interpreted by members of the Committee. There is absolutely no agreement with those who are granted a derogation from the various members of the committee, and the alternative is deeply problematic for the legal certainty of applicants. I hope that the committee can and will find a form in which it is not based on the arbitrary discretion of a single Member whether an applicant should become a Danish national. It must be possible for the Ministry to decide who, according to certain criteria, is entitled to a derogation, so that the committee can deal only with serious doubts and that they will be decided after a thorough discussion of the for and against, and not as today, when each member simply announces who they have accepted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133130	Thank you. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133133	The first law of birth, which was passed here in the Danish Parliament, was in March 1850, and there was Grundtvig, who had been involved in drawing up guidelines for citizenship, and lectured the Danish Parliament that citizenship or citizenship express the Danish people's inheritance and ownership of their homeland, and that no misunderstood neighbourly love or world citizenship should give citizenship to people who were not really Danish at heart. See, this was a different approach to the vision of citizenship and of what Denmark is than the one put forward by the rapporteur here today. I feel quite in line with Grundtvig's real Grundtvig, not that left-wing, pink Grundtvig, that the high school movement is cultivating. But I would like to ask: are there any conditions at all that the rapporteur believes must be met in order to obtain Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133257	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133258	But I very much agree with Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen that if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. is born in Denmark, you are Danish. Now it is many years since Grundtvig made his statements, and when he said it here, there were not many thousands of people living in Denmark who had a permanent residence in Denmark but who were prevented from voting for the Danish parliamentary elections, who were prevented from obtaining a Danish passport and who could be expelled from the country. So I would venture to claim that the situation has become slightly different today. I do not want a parallel society, I do not want a society in which many thousands of people live without the rights that the rest of us have, because they, for example, live. cannot be good enough to speak Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133343	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133346	Again, it is quite true that there is a difference between 1850 and 2015, and there is also a difference between the Parliament that is starting today in relation to the fact that 10,000 must have citizenship, and then the Parliament that had to deal with the 4 then on the law, when Grundtvig helped to grant citizenship, but the premise was basically the same, for he also says that it would cut his heart if citizenship were given to people who were not Danish and were not Danish of mind and heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133427	So I would like to know what it is to be Danish of mind? Are we going to exercise mental control in this house? The people seeking citizenship seek because they want to be part of Denmark. They already live here, and they say that they want to be an integral part of Denmark, that they want to participate in the elections and that they want to help influence this country, because they love this country. Of those I know who have sought citizenship, everyone has done so because they want Denmark fully and completely and want to be an integral part of Denmark. But we are preventing them from being integrated by not wanting to give them citizenship. But should we exercise mental control?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133503	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133504	The rapporteur keeps talking about legal certainty, but it is not a right to have Danish citizenship; it is not a human right; it is not law. It's politics. That is why we cannot talk about legal certainty. What I want to ask the rapporteur is: where is the limit? Can the rapporteur give a few examples of those who are not entitled to citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133532	It is indeed the case that, in accordance with the specific guidelines, both to obtain citizenship and to obtain a derogation, the Ministry sends some to us on the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which meets at least the old criteria for obtaining a derogation. That is why I have estimated that those that the Ministry thought could fall under a derogation should not start to assess by means of mind-control, for example. I'd give them a waiver. But if so, for example... I am voting in favour of a request from the PET that people should not stand on such a bill that they will not stand there. Of course, I do not want to take responsibility for the fact that people assessed by PET may be a threat to the security of the state can acquire Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133615	Then there's no more on the list of speakers. I thank the rapporteur and give the floor to Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133629	Thank you. It is something special to be a Danish citizen, and it is something special to become a Danish citizen. With this bill, our community is expanding with 6,284 people. This has not happened without swordshots, because some of the other parties in here think they should sit and pick on whether they like people or not. In the debate, it sounds almost as if everyone can get citizenship just like that. Therefore, I would like to say a few words about what the people that we are going to give Danish citizenship in this bill are living up to. Firstly, as a general rule, you must have been resident in Denmark for at least nine years. Secondly, you have to be 18 years old to come up with the bill. Thirdly, an unconditional sentence of at least 60 days' imprisonment for violation of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code must not be imposed on expulsions forever or on unconditional sentences of liberty for one and a half years or more. Fourthly, you cannot obtain citizenship if you have certain types of debt due to the public sector, among other things. with regard to the repayment of various public services and loans, as well as taxes and charges. Fifthly, you have to be self-supporting. This means that no aid must have been received under the Act on Active Social Policy or the Act on Integration in the last year and, in general, no benefit has been received for more than two years and six months in the last five years. Sixthly, we must be able to speak Danish. You have to prove that you have passed the Danish exam in Danish 2. That's a lot of demands. Some people have a disability, either physically or mentally, which makes them unable to meet the requirements. We may grant a derogation from the requirements for Danish or citizenship tests on the Committee of Insights if the applicant has been diagnosed with a long-term physical, mental, sensory or intellectual impairment and as a result is unable or has reasonable prospects of being able to meet the requirements. It must be documented by a statement from a medical professional. So it is not just anyone who gets citizenship. It is always because you live up to the rules, or you have a doctor's word that there is a good reason, for example. disability or mental illness, which means that one cannot live up to a certain rule. What we have witnessed recently, when a majority in this House is taking out a person, even if he complies with the exemption rules, is simply not worthy of the rule of law. It's legal security roulette, and it violates my sense of justice. In the Radical Left, we believe that everyone who complies with the rules should have citizenship. So I'd like to say to you, as a majority in here leaves without legal certainty, that I will fight for justice. And to those of you who get citizenship: Congratulations! I look forward to seeing many of you on citizenship day.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133944	Sir. Christian Langballe
ParlaMint-DK_20151105133946	Thanks for the speech. I mean, I think it's such a weird exercise in the Radicals that it's a question of who you like and who you don't like. Who the hell ever talked about it? Actually, I don't understand. I have a very good acquaintance, whom I value very much, who is not a Danish citizen. Well, is it a matter of liking or not liking? I think that's a lot of nonsense. It's just making the debate crazy and vulgar. What is at stake here is whether the conditions we impose are met so that you can become a Danish citizen. The other one's nonsense. I do not know why the Radicals should bring it into this, but the rapporteur can answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134038	Thank you. I would point out that we have had a case put forward in order to comply with the exemption rules, and yet there is a majority in here who says: we do not like what he has said, and therefore he should not have citizenship. It violates the sense of justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134058	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134059	Thank you. What we have been arguing for, which is the matter I do not know whether the rapporteur has listened to is that the person concerned has signed a declaration of loyalty that the Danish legal principles that apply are, as it were, to be upheld. Does it really matter that you say you don't? I mean, you might as well say when we say, for example. makes a language requirement at Danish 3 level or this 9th grade level, or whatever it is that it is also okay if you apply, even if you cannot Danish. That's a strange arbitrariness. We are just trying to assert the principles that apply in the agreement that exists and in the agreement that we are also going to make now.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134154	I think, and we in the Radical Left think, that it is quite right that we should make demands on what it is that is needed to obtain citizenship. What we do not think is reasonable is when there is a derogation case where there is a specific reason why the person concerned cannot meet one of the requirements that have been made and therefore has a specific reason for obtaining a derogation, and then simply because he thinks it will not grant him citizenship. That is a lack of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134226	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134227	With regard to the declaration of loyalty, which the Radical Left also supports, would the rapporteur not agree that it is also a form of democratic control of the mind? For what is stated in the declaration of loyalty is: If you are to be a citizen of this society, you must be loyal to our democracy and the rule of law and traditions of freedom. Isn't that mind control?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134300	I really think that where I would like to reach out to you is where I would say that then let us discuss whether there are any rules to get citizenship that we should look at, but then they should apply to everyone. What is my problem in this is that we have some rules on what it takes to present a waiver to the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and then some of you, some other politicians from the Folketing, will come and say: Well, we don't think they should have citizenship anyway. It simply cannot be right that there is no legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134341	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134342	But the rules apply to everyone. But when we're dealing with these cases, we're subjective too. We look at it through different glasses. Maybe I'll give a yes to someone who someone from another party doesn't think should have a yes. For example, I have a lot of illiteracy, and it may be that someone else isn't. So we're looking at it subjectively. But what I want to emphasise is not about consensus control, but it is about our having a declaration of loyalty, and if people do not comply with the declaration of loyalty, they cannot therefore be citizens. You have to follow the same rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134425	But that's exactly what Mr. Naser Khader says here, I think it shows what is the problem, i.e. that it is a subjective assessment. I think, too, sir. Naser Khader said earlier that it could be that a rapporteur from a party had a different attitude than a former rapporteur from the same party. In other words, it is precisely the problem that there is no such thing as legal certainty for me as one of the most fundamental Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134451	No one else has signed up for a brief remark. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134458	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good debate for the time being. In the SF, we've been looking forward to this bill being on the agenda. We have received a lot of e-mails and a lot of calls, and we have had a lot of conversations with worried people who had been looking forward to becoming Danish citizens, but who have been able to see their case dealt with and proposed re-examined for a long time in the press. It is several thousand people who have gone around worried, but who for a number of years have made a difference to Danish society and who in practice have been exactly as Danish as we are. They are people who are integrated and who just want the red passport and feel like part of the community, but who have had to hear politicians say over and over again: It is not entirely certain that you will be Danes anyway. That is why it is good that we have now reached the day when we can say once and for all that there is a majority in favour of these matters being approved. Something that concerns me is freedom of speech. There have recently been a number of reports in the press that have worried me. I didn't really expect it when I was elected to spend a lot of time on freedom of speech, because I thought it was a matter of course. But then when I could see reports in the press, such as that freedom of expression does not apply to everyone, that we should be able to screen people's opinions with an attitude screening unit, that we should look through 2,500 people's opinions to see if there is something sticking out, and that we should even be able to deprive people of citizenship on the basis of attitudes, then there was something in my young heart that I once read George Orwell's 1984... who said: OK, this is crazy; we have to say something. Because I do not think it is democratic, I do not think it is compatible with Danish values, and I do not think it is compatible with the idea of freedom of expression. I remember doing a project on freedom of expression in the eighth grade, and I also found it terribly difficult to accept that people with whom I did not agree, people with whom I really disagreed, should be part of Danish society. And I thought, how am I supposed to go up and introduce this to my teacher? Then I saw in Good Evening Denmark my chairman it was then that Villy Søvndal was chairman of the party that took part in a debate with the current President of the Danish Parliament. They had brought something into the television that they considered Danish values. Villy Søvndal spoke a lot about community, equality, well-being, hospitals and primary schools, and the Speaker of the Danish Parliament had some other ideas about what was Danish values for her. There it just started to dawn on me that you cannot put a formula on what is Danish and that we must never restrict freedom of expression, in relation to what Danishism should be, because we Danes are different. The Danish values are different, depending on who you ask, and certainly also in this hall. For me, a Danish value is absolutely essential, that there is freedom of thought, that there is freedom of expression, and that one can easily be a Dane, regardless of what attitudes one might then have, as long as one adheres to the Danish law. One can easily be loyal, obey the law and still have a view that the form of government of society must be different. But it can be difficult, because stop it, how can I disagree with people? I also think that it is ignorant fools who think that a caliphate would be better in Denmark than the democracy we have. But I am sure there are also people who will call me an ignorant fool because I want a socialist society. That is how we have different opinions, and for me it is one of the most Danish. That is why it is very, very worrying for SF and me when we start to pick people off the bill because of attitudes, because we see it as a slippery path. That's why we've been so much against that field. But congratulations to the many people who now get their citizenship. You have waited a long time; you have made a huge effort, and you deserve someone at long last to be able to call you consummate Danish citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134850	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134852	The rapporteur keeps saying that with opinions and disagreements in positions. Are there any examples of anyone in this Chamber who has been out to say that people who are going to have citizenship must have the same opinions as they do? At any rate, I have not been out to say that one should have the same opinions as me. So it's not about attitudes, but it's about the basic vision of life and the dream society; it's about some having a completely different dream society. They do not want democracy, and they want a different form of society in which freedom of expression is actually banned. After all, there is a difference between saying that you have to have the same views and saying no to people who want a completely different society. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105134940	No, in fact, the rapporteur is not. My outlook on life and my dream society are my SF's and socialist attitude. Attitudes are then to think that one has to comply with the laws of the country, that one is loyal to Danish society, that one meets the requirements, but that one can still have an attitude that this form of government is not the best. These are opinions, and I think there should be room for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135007	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135011	To what the rapporteur has said, that it could be difficult with people who have a different attitude to themselves, I have to say for my part that I find this all too often, unfortunately. I have no intention that people should think the same as me. They're gonna have to disagree, so that's not what this is about. What this is about when you are to be granted a Danish citizenship, and it is not granted by the Ministry, as I think Mrs Sandbæk indicated, that this was the kind of thing that could be given administratively, but it is actually the Folketing that awards what is prescribed by the Basic Law, namely that we impose certain conditions, namely that we accept the democratic framework. Within it one can completely disagree on virtually everything, but the framework must be accepted. That is what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135118	That is precisely the part I agree with, that is to say, we must accept the democratic framework, but there has been no question of people who do not accept the democratic framework. These are people who recognise the framework but who say that they would want the framework to look different, and that is freedom of thought and opinion. I would never allow people who did not accept the framework or who did something illegal to be Danish citizens, but that is not what we are talking about, because that is an attitude. I have also heard the rapporteur say in a debate with the undersigned that he does not believe that communists should have citizenship either. I mean, I know communists who have paid taxes throughout their lives, have recognised Danish society and have lived by the Constitution. It is therefore freedom of opinion; one is allowed to have attitudes about how a society should look and still be a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135203	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135205	If we express a totalitarian ideology which is about rejecting democracy, then I do not think we should have citizenship, and these are actually the conditions we impose in relation to this declaration of loyalty, to which the rapporteur referred so beautifully. We must be loyal to the country in which we acquire citizenship. By the way, I would like to say something else. I do not know if the rapporteur knows what a caliphate is, but one can try to understand it and then ask whether it is an expression of democracy. There are, among other things: What is happening in Saudi Arabia, which I think is relatively close, although it is not a real caliphate; it is actually much worse. Is it within a democratic framework that you have a caliphate? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135252-2	I also said that I think it is fools who want a caliphate, and I am happy to say that over and over again. But as long as you recognise that we have a democracy in Denmark as long as you say that you live with it, it is okay that you have the views on some other things. And the rapporteur says that we must not have a totalitarian ideology. In my view, it is almost a totalitarian ideology, but it does not make the rapporteur any less Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135320	No one else has asked for the floor. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the series of speeches is Mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135326	Thank you. In Denmark I was not born, but here I am at home. At the same time, it is my children's homeland, and it is mine too. I care about Denmark. I do, because I was born in freedom; I know what I've gotten away from, but I also know what it is I've got, and it's unique. Therefore, I would like to take part in looking after Denmark. As you know, when we deal with this bill today, one person is missing from the original draft law. Some think it is too little, but it is no surprise that we in the Conservative People's Party are very pleased that the anti-democratic and Islamist Belal El-Khatib are no longer to come up with the proposal. The previous debate on citizenship, both before today and now in the Chamber, has shown me several things. I have been reinforced even more in how important it is for us to understand, especially here in the Assembly, that citizenship is not a right for new citizens, which they simply have. It is a political decision that we are making in this Chamber. And citizenship is not to be given to everyone. Why? Because citizenship obliges. In fact, citizenship obliges the recipient to be active in democracy, and it is the sovereign right of every country to decide who should be a national, who they think will be an asset to democracy. That is why the signing of the declaration of loyalty is part of acquiring citizenship. But the declaration of loyalty is obviously not worth the paper on which it is written because, at the same time, we are going out and campaigning for something quite contrary to what is stated in the declaration. I am pleased with the democratic control of the mind which lies in the declaration of loyalty, but we also have an ambition that the declaration of loyalty also commits. Being a national is like being a member of an association; you have to submit to the statutes. It has been called mind control to demand that future citizens take loyalty to democracy seriously. I call it due diligence towards our democracy. Nor is it consensus control, no, you do not have to agree with me or say the same thing as me, but the basic democratic package must be offered. I have met with criticism that when I arrived in Denmark, I had controversial views about the homosexuals when I was 16-17 years old and that is correct. I wouldn't have given myself citizenship back then either, but I would later, because I got smarter. I came with all my ignorance to Denmark when I was 11 years old, from a country where such attitudes were common. I came to Denmark as a democratic illiterate, not as an anti-democratic, but democratic illiterate, and then I have become wiser. Belal El-Khatib was born here, surrounded by attitudes that are far from those he has today. It is possible that he too will become wiser at some point, but then he will have to apply again, and then we will have to look at the application again. Recently, the last month, when we have had a great deal of debate on citizenship, I have had quite a lot of citizens' requests, more emails compared to exactly 14 applicants. Some of them are among the 2,500 who have applied for exemption. They're being accused of a lot that I can't investigate or relate to, so I need help with that, and among other things. That is why we are also in favour of an amendment at second reading to look again at the 2,500 cases, so that we can find out how we should deal with the allegations made in the citizens' petitions we have received. It may be that some of them do not last, but I think we should take our work seriously and take the citizen's concerns seriously and check whether these allegations are true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135756	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135758	How can you prove that if you change your mind? Let us say that in six months' time this young man, who is now being denied citizenship, will join the Conservative People's Party and will be a wholehearted anti-Nazi, in other words, supporting Mr Conservatives. Naser Khader's case number one. It's not unthinkable. The young man has previously been chairman of the youth of the Danish People's Party in Roskilde when he had bleached hair and light blue contact lenses. Sir. Naser Khader knows, as he himself said in the rapporteur's speech, of course even the change of attitude, since Mr. Naser Khader, who was quite young, believed that homosexuals should be slaughtered. So how do you prove it to the Folketing if you change your mind again?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135854	That is, if the person concerned joined the Conservative People's Party tomorrow, I would be sceptical. It would be too opportune, it would only have something to do with him wanting citizenship. I don't believe it. But we have to give people a chance. He's not convicted of life. He may change his mind. I really hope he'll be a democrat again, because he's done it before. Maybe he sees this as a misunderstanding. We have other examples of this. That is where we say that we must deal with the new situation. As far as the people accused of having similar attitudes are concerned, in future I would really like PET not only to help us remove those who represented a security risk, but also to point out that there are some who are active in the Islamist environments and that we should look at them extra. And then I would really like us to do what the United States did. There people are called for hearings and interviews and ask: Why do you want citizenship? On the basis of such a conversation, one can conclude whether people are sincere democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105135958	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140000	First of all, should I understand Mr. Is Khader such that, if it were up to the Conservative People's Party, all the people applying for citizenship would be called for a discussion on what political positions they have? That's it, sir. Naser Khader just said from Parliament's platform? Secondly, I did not actually get an answer to my question. How, for that matter, will this young man and all sorts of others prove that if they change their minds? Are they due for a meeting? How can you prove what opinions you have or no longer have?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140036-2	What I'm saying isn't that everyone has to come in for a conversation. Those people who have deep anti-democratic attitudes, but who currently do not pose a security threat, must do so. Where PET goes in and helps us is in relation to people who pose a security threat, but there is also a lot that is active on Islamist social media, among other things. Belal El-Khatib. Special Branch didn't tell us he had those opinions. But in future, I would like us to know that there are some who have anti-democratic views, and I would like that group to have a conversation to hear why they want citizenship when they do not like the fundamental democracy of this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140118	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140119	If we then imagine that people are actually coming to us in committee and that we can then ask them why they want citizenship, what kind of basis is that, Mr President? Naser Khader will judge people? I am not a psychologist, I do not feel able at all to judge whether people are telling the truth or false or have a diagnosis that makes them say something that is completely crazy and that they really mean something else. On what basis would Mr. Naser Khader judge people?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140154	You just have to ask the right questions. We have seen this in relation to Belal El-Khatib. He has been called to account in Radio24sy, in the Deadline, and on the basis of the questions put, one is left with the view that he is an Islamist when he could not distance himself from stoning. He wants a caliphate, but then it has to be if a majority of the population wants it, that is, he wants democracy to be used to abolish it. On the basis of such a discussion, I can at least conclude whether he is a democrat or not a democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140232	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140234	Okay. When you find out that that's what you're judged on, it may be that you still mean it, but you don't say it. So when Mr. Naser Khader asks if you are in favour of stoning, you answer: No, I don't. Will Mr. Naser Khader then give citizenship or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140250	So, with regard to the group I am talking about, to which I would like PET's help, it is extremely important that we have a background in relation to what they have said and said on the Islamic social media. Then you can keep them these things. I would actually like to have invited Belal El-Khatib and confronted him with the attitudes he expresses on social media.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140320	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140323	I would like to thank you for a fine speech by the rapporteur. What makes me ask you is that sir... Naser Khader has made it a special reason in recent days that he was a new rapporteur. I was a little surprised because I thought: what impact does it have on the people's regime if, after elections, new rapporteurs come in areas where you think it might be different, which then say that you have to look at that matter again, because now new rapporteurs have come in? I do not understand the explanatory statement, and I think it would be totally untenable if that idea were to be thought at all. So I just miss the explanatory statement or the background or would like to hear about Mr. Naser Khader's belief that it really holds water.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140411	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140412	Now it's not about all the rapporteurs I have nine. It is not about foreign policy, it is not about culture, the media, the church. It's about sitting on the Committee of Insights, which is unique and special, and where we deal with matters according to section 44 (1) of the Constitution. 1. It says it is a political decision; it is a political majority that decides it. We're sitting as MFs as case officers... you and I... and we're all getting those moving boxes with attachments that we need to review, and we're also subjective about it. We look at the formal criteria, but I have given a yes to someone who was illiterate, where I thought: The person simply cannot learn Danish, but I would like to be large. Maybe you or somebody else wouldn't. So we actually sit and evaluate it subjectively, and that is why one rapporteur can have one position and the other a different position, also within the same party.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140513	We don't use the puppet in the Folketing. Naser Khader Sorry, I'm new. ) Mr. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140520	But, sir. Whatever the case, would it not be totally untenable, even in this area, and especially in this area, if any party could use it to say: now we have a new rapporteur, so we would like to look at those cases from the past? Now there has also been a parliamentary election, but is that not a completely untenable way of thinking? I have just given some thought to it now that it has been put forward as clearly as a reason, and could not really understand it in relation to the people's regime. So would it not just be completely destructive to the principle that once you have taken a position, you have taken a position and that the party stands by it and not individuals?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140557	Well, I don't think it's fair that I should deal with 2,500 cases I haven't seen. Then we discover by chance that one of them is an Islamist, an anti-Democrat. I am convinced that there are more of his kind, and we can only find out if we review matters again. What I'm saying is we're looking at these things with different glasses. I look at them with some other glasses than others. I understand that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says that he has seen them and does not want to see them again. But I have not had that opportunity, and that is why I say that it is my right to be allowed to see those cases, even though they were first dealt with in the last assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140644	Sir. Jacob Mark. Sir. Jacob Mark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140648	I'm sorry we're chatting. I have really stood up out of curiosity, and it is because I have read today that the rapporteur proposes that all the cases we are dealing with today, which, thank God, appear to be going through, should be re-examined so that we can find out if there are any more cases I am quoting among these cases. How does Mr. Does Khader think they're being checked out in a practical way? Well, who's gonna do it, and how's gonna do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140720	I haven't told you every case. Because I have stressed on several occasions that a majority is law-abiding citizens who contribute positively to this society and they deserve citizenship, and congratulations on that. What I have said is that there are some who do not meet those criteria. I've had citizens' requests from some who claim that some have bought themselves for medical certificates. There are some who claim that some are jihadists. I do not have a Chineseman's chance to investigate it by just seeing the cases that I have asked for access to. That is why I say that I would like to re-examine the 2,500 cases so that we could go into detail on some of the allegations that come here. Maybe it's not gonna last. However, I think it is important that we take these enquiries seriously, especially if they come from doctors and not jealous neighbours.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140811	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140812	My next question will be: who is it that defines the criteria that the rapporteur is talking about when looking at matters? Is it the rapporteur who has to define them? And then these criteria mean that, for example, Jehovah's Witnesses will not be able to obtain citizenship because, as far as I know, they urge not to vote? Does this mean that Communists, as the Danish People's Party proposes, cannot obtain citizenship? Who defines these criteria?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140839	We must deal with the applications according to the rules and guidelines we have, among other things. The declaration of loyalty. If people don't comply with the declaration of loyalty, I don't think they should have citizenship. Compared to Jehovah's Witnesses, mentioned several times: Jehovah's Witnesses are not anti - Democrats. Jehovah's Witnesses have no ambition to establish a totalitarian society where unfaithful women are stoned. Jehovah's Witnesses accept democracy, they just won't take part in the vote when there are elections. So you really need to be careful about comparing Jehovah's Witnesses with those crazy jihadists.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140926	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140930	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur how he intends to find out whether one or more people on the list have bought a medical certificate. Do you have to go through everyone's bank statements to see if they paid a doctor for a medical certificate? How can you even find out?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105140949	If the questioner received an email from someone who mentions names in the draft law we are discussing today that they have bought a medical certificate, how would the rapporteur deal with that? Would you just miss it? At least I'll see if there's anything about it. Because we do have examples: there are at least some cases that run where some doctors have been too diligent in giving medical certificates. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen Only one! ) What do you say?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141030	Easy! We are asking for an opportunity to speak in the Chamber and then, when I have said, we shall speak. And now Mrs Ulla Sandbæk has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141039	So I would just like to repeat the question: whether or not an email has been sent that someone named has bought himself for a medical certificate, how can you find out whether that is the case or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141052	It's hard for me as a member of the Folketing to find out. That's where I need help. I would like help, it may be by the health authorities, it may be by the Committee on Bodily Rights, and it may be by others. I can't relate to it. However, I do find it extremely problematic that these allegations should be made and therefore they should be verified. At any rate, I have the names of 14 people who are here with me, as some claim is getting citizenship without being legitimately entitled to it. And I actually think that if we are to take our task seriously, we should look into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141128	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I have the impression that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing would like to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141145	Thank you. I understand that as a minister we do not normally take the floor when it comes to dealing precisely with citizenship proposals. But I will do so this time, and I will, because I think the debate has been very special, also because it has dealt with much more than the people who are now getting Danish citizenship. It has, of course, been about many questions of principle, and for me and the government it is the case that getting a Danish citizenship is something very special. That is also what a majority in the Danish Parliament has now, it can be said, emphasised by raising the bar for when to call oneself a Danish citizen. I would like to thank a broad majority in the Danish Parliament for having just helped to change the circular. I think it has a very great strength to see a broad majority behind the granting of citizenship, which we have not seen since 1999, at least not that an agreement has reached the middle. So I would like to thank you for that. Specifically, the restrictions that we are now making on the granting of citizenship mean that we are making increased demands on languages, we are making increased demands on self-reliance, but also that we extend the waiting period for applicants who have committed something criminal. As I have said, I think, and this is what a majority in the Folketing thinks, that obtaining citizenship is something very, very special. The fact that we can call ourselves a Dane is something special, and that is why it is also something solemn, and I think we have emphasized this with the agreement we have reached here recently. So thank you for that. Today's bill is, of course, about something a little different, namely the many people who now acquire Danish citizenship. A number of criteria, and that is fortunately most people get it, on the basis that they actually meet the criteria, but the old criteria, and then a number of people get Danish citizenship because of a derogation, and that is so much the part that has been debated today. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141440	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141441	After all, the Minister has tampered with a named person and publicly declared that the Minister believes that he is an anti-Democrat and that he should therefore not have citizenship. And that is, of course, despite the fact that he is neither charged nor convicted of anything illegal. One principle that normally prevails is that all cases must be dealt with in the same way. How will the Minister ensure that in future all applicants are screened for what political positions they have, i.e. whether they are anti-Democrats or not? How will the Minister ensure that all applicants are treated equally?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141520	Now it is actually the case that exactly when you are granted Danish citizenship, it is, after all, a single case treatment. And that also means that it is up to the Committee on the Rights of the Child to decide every time whether a person should have a Danish citizenship or not. What I have said in the case of Belal El-Khatib is that he does not meet the conditions. So that means that if he is to have a Danish citizenship, it depends on a derogation. And then I have said that I find it strange that, when the applicant does not meet the conditions, but obtains his Danish citizenship by way of derogation, a person who has been declared an Islamist and who is at least opposed to the values on which we have founded our society rewards. That's what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141623	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141624	Yes, but I am not asking about the handling of the case by the Committee on Birth Rights. I am asking about the handling of the case by the Minister and the Ministry of Integration. Because it is true that the Parliamentary Committee on the Rights of the Child can do whatever you like. A minister and a minister can't do that. A minister has to deal with every case in the same way. And that is why I ask once again: how will the Minister because I assume that the Minister is paying tribute to the basic principle we have in the Danish rule of law, namely that the Minister cannot just go around picking things out and saying that the Minister likes the same thing, but that matters are actually dealt with in the same way. I ask the Minister's approach, the ministry's approach, not the approach of the Committee of Insights.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141720	Yes, but that is exactly what I am replying to, because the fact is that the person concerned, Belal El-Khatib, does not meet the requirements for Danish citizenship. Then he gets it through a derogation scheme because a majority of the Committee on the Rights of the Child wants him to have a Danish citizenship. I can, of course, take the personal view, and I think it is strange to reward someone who is fundamentally opposed to the set of values on which we have built our country with Danish citizenship. But he was on the list immediately, but before the bill was printed. When I saw in the media that there was apparently a majority who did not want the person in question, Belal El-Khatib, to be put on the bill, I asked the Committee on the Rights of the Child if that was correctly understood. From there, I got a letter back that it was correctly understood that is why he is not on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141824	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141826	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I really stand up mostly in order to match expectations in relation to the next period. I have, of course, heard the Minister's parliamentary basis The Danish People's Party say that they want a position screening unit to screen through positions, and I really just want to know whether the Minister agrees with that and whether it is something the Minister wants to work for in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141855	In other words, I am very pleased with the agreement that we have reached and that the Socialists, in addition to the blue parties, are also part of, which I think is a very great strength, that is to say that it extends right across the middle. So, of course, I am completely behind the agreement we have reached, and I have not seen a proposal from the Danish People's Party on screenings in any other way. So I stand by the agreement we have made and think it is really good, so no, it is not up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141924	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141926	Thank you. I have also heard the parliamentary basis suggest that it should be possible to withdraw citizenship if it turns out that the people concerned do not have positions compatible with what the current government considers to be loyalty. Is this something that the Minister will then be able to work on in the future, or does he not agree with the parliamentary basis here?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105141951	Without having to interpret the text of what members of the Danish People's Party have said, I would think that this is about what happens when a person who has signed a declaration of loyalty and that is what you do then breaks it afterwards, so that this is the discussion you want to raise. But again I can say that I am fully behind the agreement we have reached, and that is why I am not putting forward any amendments to it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142015	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142017	For us in the Radical Left, legal certainty is a fundamental Danish value. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142028	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142032	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142035	So how does the Minister feel about legal certainty when practice is like that, as Mr. Naser Khader describes that two members of the same party may think differently and that, by the way, it is just a subjective estimate? Is that legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142049	Now I would say, without having to interfere too much in the attitude of the various parties to different policy areas, that I have seen before that members of the same party could have different views on individual cases. But now it is actually the case that exactly in the area of citizenship it is the individual Member who sits, you can say, and take a stand on each individual case. It is completely different from the rest of the work in the Folketing when we deal with matters of citizenship. So it must be up to the individual Member to decide whether or not he thinks that, for example, there is a problem. must be granted citizenship on the basis of a derogation. That's the way it is. This is a case-by-case procedure, and we have to respect that. That is precisely what I respect and, of course, is also obliged to respect as a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142140	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142142	Now, one must always be careful to let the left interpret one's point of view, so I feel such a certain obligation to stand up just to try to explain what we actually mean. I really believe that this is the screening of statements, such as. the statements made by the person we are discussing, which were tampered with by the bill. There I think it is quite regular that if there are people who say in the press or on websites that they want to overthrow Danish democracy, they should not have Danish citizenship. I think that is quite simple. That's what I mean by a screening unit. It is not the case that you have to look into people's minds, so sit in their minds and check what they think, but it is just such a regular screening unit that could record such statements so that you could use them in terms of citizenship treatment. It's as simple as that. I would also like to say that the rapporteur from the SF is talking about the fact that it should be such a new idea that you can lose your citizenship. Well, dear friend, you can already do that. Paragraph 8a states that persons who provide fraudulent information to obtain citizenship may lose it, and that is what I am talking about. I'm not suggesting anything new. I simply propose that we follow what is legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142303	Thank you to the rapporteur. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142304	I can only say that I always have a deep mistrust when the Left also interprets the text of my positions, so I fully share Mr Van den Broek's view. Langballe's view of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142317	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142321	We can discuss the other one here afterwards. In fact, I believe that there is a possibility in law of depriving citizenship, because if fraudulent information is given, and that is also to say a declaration of loyalty, we can lose our citizenship according to the guidelines in force. Then I'd like to talk about one last thing here. Mrs Sandbæk thinks that this is a strange way of dealing with it. Does the Minister agree that the way we deal with is prescribed by the Constitution? So, section 44 of the Constitution prescribes that we deal with it by law, which means that we are dealing with subjective assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142357	I fully agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142409	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142422	Thank you very much. When the Constitution states that we have to deal with it by law, of course we have to, and that is not what I challenge. It is already the case that, according to certain criteria, the Ministry sends some cases to the Committee on Birth Rights, while other cases are rejected before they even reach the Committee on Birth Rights. Then I think it is worrying that two applicants who may have exactly the same background may have two very different answers, because some of those who sit on the Committee on Bodily Rights have agreed to one and have not approved the other. At the moment, the situation is, of course, that there is a majority who will say no to the vast majority, but who may take out four or five pieces and say yes to them. Of the four or five who get a yes, it is very different people who get it yes. They get no from the four parties and yes from the fifth, and then they are suddenly put on. I do not think that provides proper legal certainty. I believe that it must be possible to do so in such a way that there is uniformity in who gets yes and no. And that must be because we get fewer cases sent over for judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142523	There are several things to say about that. First of all, it must be assumed that, after this speech, there will be a very, very great rigour every time Mrs Sandbæk sits and deals with matters on the Committee on Bodily Rights. That's fine. Having said that, work has actually been set in motion to see whether one can somehow facilitate the proceedings of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. This is one of the things that the parties that actually remained at the negotiating table agreed with each other. One can then only regret that the alternative did not remain at the negotiating table, because then they could have had an influence on that work. The last thing to say about this is that if Mrs Ulla Sandbæk wants to follow her logic, it is the basic law that needs to be changed, because it is now the case today that every single time it is a matter of procedure in the Committee on the Rights of the Child when it comes to granting citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142625	Mrs. Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142626	There is therefore no need to amend the Basic Law to say that the Ministry sends fewer cases to be assessed by the Committee on the Rights of the Child. We don't judge all the cases. I ask that we assess a little less. With regard to the negotiations: I would have liked to have stayed, but we were told that we should accept the whole package completely unchanged. I couldn't. That is why I had to leave these very debates.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142648-2	I can only thank Mrs Sandbæk and the Alternative for her very strong faith in the administration of matters by the Ministry, just as they wish. I think that is a very great commendation, and I shall certainly accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142701	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor for short remarks. Thank you, Minister. On the other hand, someone has asked for a second round in this debate, and that is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105142717	I have quite rightly asked for the floor for the second round of this debate. And I have done so because there are some questions I would very much like to put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, of course, I also hope that in the second round the Minister will take the floor to answer. Before going to the two questions, I would like to say that I certainly do not think that the Minister answered my question as to how the Minister will ensure that all cases are treated equally. It is the case that, because of the constitution, we in the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Birth should like to make two very similar matters completely different conclusions. I mean, two completely similar cases can get either a yes, you've got citizenship or a no, you haven't got citizenship. But that does not apply to the Ministry and the Minister. They are obliged to deal with all cases in the same way. In this particular case, the Minister has therefore approached the Committee on the Rights of the Parliament and found that the Minister is of the opinion that he should be tampered with by the bill, so that he was not granted citizenship because the Minister believes that he has anti-democratic views, despite the fact that this person has not been charged or convicted for anything. I would just like to ask how the Minister will make sure that everyone who is in similar situations is treated in the same way in the future, so that in future the Minister will turn to the Parliamentary Committee on the Rights of the Fellowship every time there is a similar case. Then I have two specific questions which I could not ask, because there is only one brief comment. Firstly, does the Minister believe that if anti-democratic statements have been made, the request for citizenship should be refused, despite the fact that there is a serious psychiatric diagnosis? After all, we deal with many personal cases of people with serious psychiatric diagnoses in the Parliamentary Committee. One thoughtful example could be an applicant who is both schizophrenic and psychotic and who has made anti-democratic statements on Facebook, for example. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable in a rule of law for a person who has paper to be psychotic and schizophrenic to be denied citizenship because he has publicly expressed himself anti-democratic? That is one question. The second question is: how is it to be proved if you change your mind? The specific case under discussion here is, of course, a young man who, I believe, has come up with some completely crazy positions about a caliphate. The young man has previously been a committed member of the Danish People's Party. In fact, he was the youth chairman of Roskilde. At that time he had bleached hair and light blue contact lenses, and he ate pork roast and thought that the Muslim scarf should be banned. How are we gonna prove that he's changed his mind? It's happened before.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143034	There is no wish for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. There is no further request for the floor for this debate, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143057	The debate is open, and we start with the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Jan Johansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143130	Thank you for that, President. The bill we are discussing here is a re-submission of Bill L 122 from 28 January 2015, which we tabled when we had government responsibility. As our rapporteur also said at the time, we listen very much to our partners in the Kingdom Community, so when Greenland's autonomy wants to adjust in family law legislation that applies to Greenland, we naturally support it. The bill has two main elements. Firstly, parental responsibility legislation is put into force for Greenland, and secondly, marriage between two persons of the same sex is allowed. In relation to parental responsibility law, which is now in force in Greenland, this means, among other things, that it is the child's right to both parents who must be the cornerstone of the custody decision, etc., and not the parents' right to the child. In the event of a dispute over custody, the child must be involved in the case and listened to. Parents are given joint custody of the child and have joint responsibility for the child's association with the parent with whom the child does not live. The right of parents to reprove their child is waived. It was, moreover, the Socialists who had the right of revulsion abolished here in Denmark back in the 1990s, and it is very good that this is now happening in Greenland too. As regards the second part of the bill, this means that a couple of the same sex in Greenland will now have the opportunity to marry instead of registered partnership on an equal footing and with the same legal effect as marriage between two persons of different sexes. We warmly welcome all the measures aimed at ensuring the best interests of children, and we strongly advocate that same-sex couples can enter into marriage, so we are excited that it is now being introduced into Greenland. The Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143357	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143402	When the proposal was put forward, I myself sat in the government. And some of what we have pointed out is the need to get the legislation up to date in general as well. In relation to this family package, we would like to see the Children's Act, which dates back to 1962, i.e. a law that is more than 53 years old, also updated because it actually goes in and creates a number of discrimination cases, among others. Compared to this whole co-motherhood thing. I would like to know if you [rightly, it is commented on later. HAPR] considers it reasonable that there is so much legislation that is so outdated in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143441	Thank you. Now I am not the rapporteur in this area, but I also think it sounds as if it was quite many years ago that it was looked at. But I will say that I am talking to the rapporteur about this and I will try to get him to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143457	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143458	Thank you very much. The Children's Act is constantly updated in Denmark, which is why I also find it extremely regrettable that the focus is not also on updating existing legislation in Greenland, so I look forward to supporting the fact that we will of course have the whole area of justice and, in particular, the area of family law lifted.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143524	Thank you. I've been listening.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143525	Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen. I should just like to say that we do not use direct speech in the Assembly, but we can learn that. Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143529	Yes, Madam President. I'll stick to that. I would like to follow up Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's question a little, because there is another matter which there is also a desire to be updated, and this is the point of the child's right, that is to say, if the child is at the age of 10, then you can ask the State Administration to convene a meeting on parental responsibility, on the child's residence or association, and it is a provision that the parent with whom the child is resident may request the State Administration to convene the other parent for a meeting on association. It would, of course, be a good strengthening of children's rights if it were to be written in. So if the rapporteur is not able to answer why these wishes have not been complied with, then I would be very happy with a commitment that this is something that we will look at positively. And that is no less important when we consider that there has just been a report which tells us about the difficulties in this area of children's rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143636	Well, I can tell sir. Finn Sørensen, that I have listened to what Mr. Finn Sørensen has said and that I will try to pass it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143643	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143644	Well then, I would like to thank you for that and then hope that it translates into committee work that we can have a broad consensus, where the Socialists are also involved, that such a provision should be incorporated. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143658	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143703	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Jeppe Jakobsen on behalf of the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143709	As I have mentioned before here from the platform, a sensible development for Greenland and the people of Greenland is a subject that we are very concerned about in the Danish People's Party. The debate over the last few days has shown that there is still a long way to go on this front, especially when it comes to ensuring safe conditions for children's upbringing in Greenland, especially in the smaller settlements where there are still major challenges with children with mental and social problems. And in order to make the situation worse, the people of Greenland experience that the public authorities either slow down or do not act at all on reports about children in disarray. Against this background, we in the Danish People's Party have also taken the initiative of a question debate with the minister responsible to keep a leash on the respect and support of children's rights throughout the Kingdom. This draft law is certainly a step in the right direction in order to ensure the framework for a safe upbringing for Greenlandic children. With the entry into force of the parental responsibility law, the focus shifts, so decisions about children must be made from the child's perspective, that is, from what is best assessed for the child. Furthermore, the abolition of parents' right to chastise their children is also a major step in the right direction for Greenlandic children. However, as has been said, good intentions and the right framework not only do we in the Danish People's Party want to follow up on real improvements for the Greenlandic children, and continue to keep the government on fire to ensure that the Greenlandic authorities comply with the responsibilities imposed on them, both in relation to the Children's Convention and also the laws and conventions that are put into effect with the hopefully adoption of this bill. I must therefore inform you that we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill and will continue to keep a close eye on the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143904	A brief comment on Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143908	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the Danish People's Party is focusing on the challenges that approx. one third, or equivalent to 5,000 children in Greenland are experiencing. That's really, really positive. But I also think it is very important to look at what you can do for yourself and, as I mentioned just now, there is the children's law, but you could also point to the child's reform, which could be something that could help lift the family law area in Greenland. Is this something that the Danish People's Party will help to continue working on?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143937	This is certainly something that we in the Danish People's Party will contribute constructively to. In the Danish People's Party we believe that all children throughout the Kingdom of Denmark should have the same opportunities for a good and safe upbringing.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143949	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has not asked for any further comment. Then we move on to Mrs Aleqa Hammond from Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105143956	I am very pleased that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party supports the legislative package. It is a legislative package which has been going on for a very long time and which we have been waiting for for many years. We are also pleased that there is a great deal of support for it. When we talk about legal certainty, including for our children, it is important that legal certainty is a legal certainty that Denmark can be proud of. Unfortunately, however, in 14 out of 60 villages in Greenland, where you do not have a municipal guard that is equivalent to the police representative, this is of course also important for our children and our families and society in general. Will the Danish People's Party help to support the improvement of legal conditions in Greenland for the benefit of our children as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144048	Of course, as a citizen of Greenland you also have to live in a society with a high degree of legal certainty, so we in the Danish People's Party will handle all specific inquiries with extreme seriousness.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144103	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144105	Now that negotiations are under way on the Finance Act for next year, I would like to say in this context that our priorities here in the Folketing are of great importance for legal certainty in Greenland. In the area of justice, many of the settlements have problems to which the report on our children, which appeared the day before yesterday, refers, and in this context legal certainty is very, very important for Greenlandic society. It is only by priorities down here that things can be fixed. Is the Danish People's Party behind the desire for improvements in this area too?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144142	I shall not be able to speak here about our specific priorities in relation to the Finance Act, but if this is a great wish of the Greenlandic people, we will of course take it seriously in the Danish People's Party too, that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144156	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144158	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the positive approach to listening to Greenland's wishes. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur how the Danish People's Party feels about the wishes expressed by the Greenlandic legislative committee, which I understand has also been endorsed by Inatsisartut. We have mentioned them earlier in the debate, but it is just to refresh it. This is, of course, the question that the court in Greenland and the richman should, as far as possible, offer parents and children child-sacrificing advice or conflict mediation if there is disagreement about custody, the child's residence or association. It is true that there are geographical challenges, but they are of course of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs that some form of wording should be possible so that it is taken into account, as well as the other examples I mentioned from the recommendations of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Is that something that the Danish People's Party wants to take a positive view of?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144251	As mentioned, it is of the utmost importance for the Danish People's Party that as a child throughout the kingdom of Denmark one can expect to have the same opportunities for a safe and good upbringing, and it does not matter whether one lives in Greve or in Greenland in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144310	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144312	Thank you. I read that the rapporteur saw, at least as a starting point, a positive attitude towards the attitudes that are coming, because they are all about putting Greenlandic children on an equal footing with Danish children.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144328	It's read correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144332	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144343	Thank you. For the Left, it is at the heart of this bill that Greenland's autonomy has requested that family law in Greenland be updated so that legislation is brought into line with the legislation in Denmark, specifically the law on parental responsibility and on marriage between two persons of the same sex, which is now also being brought into force in Greenland. This means, among other things, that children in Greenland will experience improved protection, because in future the key element in custody cases must be the child's right to both parents and not the parents' right to the child. And of course it also means that same-sex couples have the opportunity to marry on an equal footing with everyone else. In the Left we have the view that when Greenland itself makes a request for Danish legislative help to support changes such as these in Greenland, we of course fully support it. And, of course, we are doing the same in this context. So I will not go into detail on the substance, but will simply note that the Left naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144451	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144454	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, with this family package, we see an example of a general challenge, namely that we have Danish legislation and, in addition, we get a few rights removed, so that we really get a Greenlandic legislation under Danish law. In other words, when it is presented as a Greenlandic legislative proposal, some rights are being thrown out. I find that extremely regrettable, and I also think it is a pity that the level of ambition is being reduced in relation to, for example, the level of ambition. conflict mediation, which has gone from being a shell to being a can. What do you think of the difference in the level of ambition for conflict mediation?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144541	I would remind you once again that we do not use direct indictments in the Assembly. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144547	I know that the draft law, like all the other legislative proposals we are dealing with, concerning Greenland, has been over Greenland's self-government first. That is why, of course, we are complying with the proposals made by Greenland's self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144602	There are no requests for further brief remarks, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105144624	Thank you very much. Like the previous rapporteurs, the Enhedslisten can warmly support this bill. It contains an absolutely necessary update of e.g. rules on parental responsibility, child protection, registered partnership between same-sex couples and criminal law. This is a very good improvement in the legal position of Greenlandic children. The changes will also take place at the request of Greenland's Inatsisartut and Naalaksusususususuut, which will unanimously suspend the proposal for approval. It should have actually entered into force on 1 October 2015, but the parliamentary elections in June got in the way, and it is important that we clarify it just now, because I do not think it is quite clear when the law as such will enter into force, except for some provisions that have been indicated a date of entry into force. The Greenlandic authorities, both at national and municipal level, have a major role to play in ensuring the conditions of the children. Too many children live in unacceptable conditions and violence and are subjected to abuse. This is highlighted among other things. in the children's Ombudsman's recent descriptions from her visit to North Greenland, which shows that in several cases the children's convention has been violated. And that is why it is so damn important that with this bill we can take some steps to ensure better rights for Greenlandic children. After all, it is important to act systematically and long-termly and that we in the Kingdom community offer to help the Greenlanders change the unacceptable conditions. And the least we can do in the first place is to ensure that Greenlandic children have the same rights as Danish children. Then I have mentioned a few things in the brief remarks to which I would like to draw attention again. We believe in the Enhedslisten that we should listen to the proposals that have come from the Greenland Legislative Committee, which has also been endorsed by Inatsisartut. That is, for example, the case. the proposal to amend the device Paragraph 32; 1, where the Legal Affairs Committee would like to add that the court in Greenland and the richman must, as far as possible, offer parents and children child-sacrificing advice or dispute mediation if there is disagreement about parental authority, the child's residence or association. This is something that has been omitted from the draft law, because the conditions in Greenland do not make it possible, but perhaps some form of wording could be made which justified the wish of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. There are also some provisions in section 35 of the Parental Responsibility Act which you would like to see incorporated. It is about the child's right, if it is 10 years old, to request the State Administration to convene a meeting of parents on parental responsibility, the child's residence or association. And then there is a provision that the parent with whom the child is resident may request the State Administration to convene the other parent for a meeting on the occasion of the meeting. It is also proposed to be incorporated in such a way as to ensure that these rights are respected as far as possible, with due regard, of course, for the particular conditions of Greenland. Then there is a recommendation on some provisions in Articles 3 and 17 of the Parental Responsibility Act on what to do if there is a disagreement between parents about the child's place of residence. Here, too, the Greenlandic legislative committee has put forward some proposals for amendments, which should also be taken into account. So we hope that the government, in its further work, will respond to the wishes that have been expressed here. Then there is the fundamental discussion at the end, which is somewhat outside the scope of this bill, but which is worth noting. The Greenlandic Law Committee has proposed that instead of royal regulations, which have the disadvantage of not being translated into Greenlandic, laws adopted here in the Danish Parliament were used, but of course in those areas where the Danish Parliament has the right to make laws that apply only to Greenland, which will also make it easier to take account of particular Greenlandic conditions. So Enhedslisten supports the bill, but we also think it is reasonable that we should relate to the Greenlandic wishes to which I have just referred and that we should do what we can to meet them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145030	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145031	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. We see that, among other things. Because of this lack of updating of the Children's Act, there is direct discrimination against same-sex couples. Fortunately, this family package provides the opportunity for church marriage of same-sex couples. But it also means that because the Children's Act has not been updated, you cannot get the so-called co-motherhood that you can in Denmark. And that means that if you are a couple of the same sex who live in Denmark and move to Greenland, then a co-motherhood cannot be recognised. This means that one of the two parents has to be adoptive parent to the child. I think it is really a pity that these discriminations are being made within the Kingdom community and that we have just not received an update of the Children's Act in relation to this. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145126	I can only agree with that. And with a little red ears I would say that it should have been included in my rapporteur's speech as one of the shortcomings of the draft law here. So we can only back that up in further work to see if it can come along.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145142	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen did not wish to make any further brief comments. Then I would like to thank the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten and we shall move on to Mr Rogalla's report. Steen Holm Iversen on behalf of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145154	Thank you. Just as in dealing with this draft law in the spring, I can tell you that we continue to support the draft law and support the updates and adjustments resulting from the consultation. In addition to the other rapporteur's speeches that have been made today, we are also aware that there are parts that we have not achieved. Nevertheless, we are dealing with a legislative proposal which has two main components: a parental responsibility law and a law on legal effects. As far as parental responsibility legislation is concerned, the importance of this bill has unfortunately been confirmed, as has already been said in the past week, and it is in our view tragic reports that we have received from North Greenland. Although we in this country cannot say that we are not familiar with similar matters, it shows, among other things. the report on the well-being of children in North Greenland that there is a need to strengthen the rights of Greenlandic children and to establish them in law. That is why, of course, we are happy to help to ensure that. At first sight, it seems thoughtful that we are now introducing with the bill the abolition of the right of reproof 18 years later than in the rest of the Kingdom. Also with regard to the second part of the proposal, which concerns the law on legal effects, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill. Of course, we welcome the entry into force of the necessary legislation to allow two people of the same sex to marry. Finally, we welcome the fact that Greenland, with its legislation, can now also be part of the international cooperation on parental responsibility, whereby child abductions can also be prosecuted. The only addition, apart from those I have already mentioned, is that we support the comments made by IA during the first reading, which has also been made in the hearing. We agree that the speed with which other social policy matters, other legislative measures, can be dealt with here in the Things can be looked at with advantage in order to speed things up. This is essential for legal certainty, and it is essential for the equality of Greenland and for combating discrimination, as has already been mentioned here. We will therefore confidently ask the government to address this so that in the coming period we can work on the relatively long processing times we see in this area. It also said that we would be happy to take part in committee proceedings in order to get rid of the knots that might be left out in the draft law, and with those words I must say that the Liberal Alliance can support the bill and we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145440	Thank you. We have a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145444	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The rapporteur himself mentions this here with the MIO report on vulnerable children in Greenland, and indeed it has a relation to this family package in the sense that when there is a need for child-sacrificing knowledge, it is from some social services that are really burdened. A report by Greenland's self-government has shown that some case managers have 100-300 cases per case. In addition, if you have to go out and do an additional job of providing child-sacrificing knowledge, it can be really difficult in practice. This means that we will have legislation that is really difficult to implement in reality, and that means that there will be a gap between what the legislation says and what the reality is. I would like to hear what the rapporteur says about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145536	I think the questioner knows the answer. We will work quite determinedly to deal with those elements so that we can strengthen the overall legal certainty for children, not least children who cannot speak their own case and fight for their own legal certainty. If there is a lack of resources or a problem with the state administrations, as the questioner also points out, I think we should address it in the forthcoming committee work, and then we should see how we can strengthen them. There is a need for adaptation to special Greenlandic conditions and conditions, and the draft law is an expression of this already at this stage. I am convinced, however, that we may be able to include in the work of the committee several of the particular concerns, including the congestion identified in the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145621	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145623	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. This is, of course, primarily a Greenlandic matter, but there are, of course, some grey areas that we need to deal with. Another thing that is a Danish matter is the courts. We sometimes find that there is a long time in which to go to court and deal with his custody case. This also means that the parent who does not have daily contact with the child can go for a very long time before the matter is settled and that this person can actually lose or is about to rebuild a relationship with the child afterwards. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145702	Thank you for that question, although I have already answered it. Because I said that I believe we should work to reduce discrimination between citizens in Denmark and Greenland, for example. And if you are in a situation where you have lost contact with your child and are denied association, then it is your legal certainty that is under threat. Therefore, proceedings should also be dealt with in the courts. These are heavy issues, they certainly require resources, and the questioner himself points out that something is Greenlandic and something is Danish. And I am convinced that we should be able to find a solution to this in committee work. I do not think I hear any disagreement between the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145742	Thank you. There is no further brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is why we move on to the rapporteur for the alternative, Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145757	Thank you very much. When it is Greenland's Self-Government that has asked for family law to be updated, the alternative can of course only warmly support it. It is very positive that self-government wants to strengthen the legal certainty of children, that children are given the opportunity to be heard, and not least that the right of reproof is also abolished in Greenland. It is also very positive that same-sex couples can marry in the church. I am pleased that, in the context of this re-submission of the bill, there has been a response to Mr Inatsisartut's requests for amendments to the draft parental responsibility scheme. However, the alternative would have liked to see a full update of the Children's Act. In the alternative, we hope, like the Enhedslisten, that a great deal of attention will be paid to how the ability of the courts and the wealthy Ombudsman to offer qualified child-sacrificing advice or conflict mediation can be made mandatory as soon as possible. Similarly, we hope that the rules on the child's access to request the State Administration to convene a meeting on parental authority, the child's residence or association can enter into force as soon as the necessary competences are available, especially in the light of the children's Ombudsman's report on the conditions of the Greenlandic children we have just received. All in all, however, in the alternative, we are pleased with the draft law before us, which, of course, we are voting in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105145948	There are no brief comments to the rapporteur, so thank you for that. And we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150000	In the Radical Left, too, we are in favour of this legislative proposal, which is, after all, a re-submission. This is, it might be said, a piece of legislation which one might have wished to have introduced a long time ago in Greenland. It is also legislation that is being presented to the Danish Parliament just at a time when it has once again come into the public eye, that conditions for many Greenlandic children are simply not acceptable and that there is a need for much stronger action both from Greenland and from Denmark. It is true, as several parties have said, that there are some differences in the laws that they now look like in Denmark and will look like in Greenland. It is a little unclear to me how these differences have arisen, but I suspect that this is one of the reasons why. It is about, for example, that... some of the conflict mediation tools which I, in line with several other rapporteurs, would also like to see introduced in Greenland as an offer, may not be such as to introduce such guarantees simply because you do not have the necessary staff available. But I would like to make it clear that, in principle, we believe that the same offers should apply in all parts of the Kingdom, and then we must work together to create the conditions for this to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150126	A brief comment on Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150129	Many thanks to the rapporteur and for the support to ensure conflict mediation in Greenland. It is certainly something that is needed. This can help create a bleeding process, and you could, for example, create a bleeding process. Imagine that different public institutions were brought together and went together to create a conflict mediation institution. Because there are several different areas where it might be relevant. So I would like to hear what the rapporteur says about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150201	In all modesty I have to say that I believe that the IA rapporteur has more insight into how best to get rid of this. My assumption will be that it is important that there are to a large extent Greenlandic conflict brokers who know about Greenland's culture and conditions and also speak the language. I know that, unfortunately, there is a shortage of them in many parts of the social area in Greenland. But it sounds like a good idea to try to see if through some synergy effects from different organisations you could create these offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150235	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150241	Legal certainty is of great importance to the whole of the Commonwealth, and I think that a large part of the Commonwealth is without representation of the police. There are no police representatives. There are municipal guards in 14 settlements out of 60, which is a violation of legal certainty for large parts of the community's own citizens. This, of course, also affects our understanding of the law and our community of law, both for our children and for our families. Will the Radical Left also be behind the implementation of the recommendations of the Greenland Judicial Commission, which was adopted unanimously by Greenland and Denmark as early as 2005, but has not yet been fully implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150336	I can answer that quite clearly and surely: we will. Also because we voted in favour at the time. I would like to acknowledge that there are areas where things have gone too slowly and there are areas in Greenland that need to be strengthened. And this whole area of children, which we have been discussing this week, is an example of the importance of the presence of the authorities everywhere in Greenlandic society. It is not crystal clear to me what the reason for the delay, one might say, has been whether it is simply a question of resources or whether there have been other barriers that are pressing. But I want to say, and that is the only addition I have, that I think it is important to see this in the context of the needs of the social area. Because in some settlements, I think it is just as important to have a social worker or a social authority to go to as if you had a police authority or a village bailiff.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150433	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150434	Thank you for your answer. I think it is important that efforts are always made to create equal opportunities for approach to matters. That is why we also think it is extremely important that this legislation should be at least the same level as the existing legislation in Denmark. So it says that conflict mediation is something you can use, but it does not say that you should. There is a big meaning in such a tiny word. What does the Radical Left have to say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150511	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, in principle I also believe that the same offers should apply in all parts of the Kingdom. I could imagine that there have also been some specific barriers in this case, and then you have to try to get rid of them, so that you can also do conflict mediation in Greenland. There is no doubt that this is needed. But sometimes it is a challenge in Greenland to get the right manpower. Sometimes it is the resources that are the challenge and the problem. But whatever the barrier is here, and it may be, the minister can make us smarter about it, I think we should do everything we can to get rid of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150545	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radical Left. And we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150555	I would like to begin by congratulating the gay people in Greenland. And then I would say that the law is also a step in the right direction when it comes to defending children's rights. The latest depressing report, which we received a few days ago from the child speaker in Greenland and which comes on top of the series of other depressing reports, underlines the importance of initiatives which at least ensure compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. If Greenlandic autonomy or Greenlandic members of the Folketing want further changes to strengthen children's rights and legal status, we will look at it positively. The legislative proposal now before us supports the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150647	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we turn to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150701	I think it's a happy event that we've made this bill. It has happened at the request of Greenland itself that we have a number of improvements made. In fact, I think that these are actually some pretty big milestones, and I suppose that is what you would say in Greenland. These are some pretty big things that can happen, namely that there can be marriage between two people of the same sex, that the right of reproof is abolished and that we have improved children's conditions in relation to the parental responsibility law. So I think it is very positive. Of course, I have listened with great interest to the comments that have been made by the Greenland Members of Parliament as to whether there are further improvements that we can make. All in all, however, this is a very, very positive legislative proposal, which, of course, we warmly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150751	There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150755	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The rapporteur himself mentions that it is gratifying that we are ensuring that the right of reproof is finally lifted. We also think that is really, really positive on the part of Inuit Ataqatigiits. One of the things we have recommended is that Greenland looks at how we can look at this both criminally, but to a large extent also as a social problem. Because we know that about 10%. of all children in Greenland • it has a study from 2011 shown • experiencing gross violence from a family member. So there is certainly a need for something social to be done in order to be able to lift this area. After all, we had a dialogue in the Greenland Committee yesterday about the conditions that a number of children and young people live in Greenland and which are critical. I would therefore like to hear what the rapporteur says about action, including social action.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150856	I think it is quite obvious that something needs to be done, including socially. Of course, it is not just that there is now legislation that says that you cannot beat your children. This is an important step, but it does not, of course, solve the problems. As I also said yesterday in the Greenland Committee, and as was also said by a number of others who attended that meeting yesterday, we in Denmark would be very happy to contribute. If there is anything we can do, then let us know from the side of Greenland. Unfortunately, I do not really think that, when we had the dialogue yesterday, we got something concrete that we could help with. But if there is, we would very much like to do so. I do not want to go into any more detail about what else I think should be done socially in order to solve problems with children's conditions. I am simply not competent to do so. But I would just like to say that if we can help with something, we would very much like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105150949	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen does not wish to make any further brief comments. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. That is why we move forward in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, rapporteur on behalf of IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151009	Thank you very much. It is positive to see that our Danish MPs are committed and motivated to action in relation to the difficult conditions that one third, or equivalent to 5,000 children in Greenland, live under and want to do something. At the same time, we have a very important task here to ensure that our legislation in the area of family law and, above all, the implementation of the legislation is done, which is a major challenge in Greenlandic society today. I have looked forward to discussing this family business package, because it contains a necessary update of a number of areas, including parental responsibility, child protection, registered partnership between same-sex couples and criminal law. The package has been dealt with in Inatsisartut, the Greenland Parliament, after which additions have been made to the criminal code. The final treatment of the legislative package in the Folketing unfortunately fell with the discharge of the parliamentary elections. The laws were otherwise planned to enter into force on 1 October. That is why we look forward in Inuit Ataqatigiit to the fact that the matter can now be dealt with definitively and hopefully concluded soon so that it can benefit the citizens of Greenland. It is our clear expectation that Parliament's parties and the Danish government will be responsive to Greenland's wishes, just as they were at first reading in the spring. In Inuit Ataqatigiit we find it extremely positive that children are given an extended opportunity to be heard and that the right of reproof is finally abolished in Greenland. It's really pleasing. Inuit Ataqatigiit has pointed out to Naalakkersuisut, the Greenland Government, the need to look at the right of reproof and the problem in relation to it, both from a criminal perspective and from a social perspective. The introduction of the parental responsibility law is a good and necessary initiative. The child's right to both parents is strengthened unless this is in direct conflict with the child's interests. It is a clear improvement that Inuit Ataqatigiit can only warmly support. We think it is right and proper that same-sex couples should have the opportunity to marry, including in the church. This is an important matter for Inuit Ataqatigiit, and I look forward to ensuring that opportunity finally. We also find it very positive that the Hague Child Protection Convention should enter into force. However, before we go to the final adoption of this legislative package, there are a number of issues that need to be addressed. There's a gap in the law. Parents separated at the birth of their child who have not lived together at birth do not automatically receive joint custody. The starting point must be that all parents, regardless of gender, must be measured by their ability to care for the child and meet the needs of the child rather than by looking at the sex of the parents. Inuit Ataqatigiit welcomes the fact that a unanimous legislative committee in Inatsisartut supports our desire to have the Children's Law updated and the Children's Reform introduced in Greenland. The children's law is from 1962 and, as I said, more than 53 years old, so it has to be said that it is time to get that legislation in place. We have pointed out that it is deeply outdated and that it does not allow both parents of the same sex to be recognised, the so-called co-motherhood. This leads to discrimination in the community of Kingdoms, just as the children's law also means that today, potential parents must be trained by the police in order to acknowledge fatherhood rather than the more up-to-date model in Denmark, where a declaration of responsibility and care are signed in the municipality. IA notes that the Children's Act has been updated repeatedly in Denmark so that it always reflects the current society, and we believe that it gives cause for concern and attention that laws dealt with in the Folketing are unnecessarily delayed and put Greenlandic citizens at a disadvantage due to a lack of focus on getting updated laws that concern Greenland. Children's experts must be provided with knowledge which must be present when the child is to be involved, so that the child has the optimal legal framework and does not get caught up in the conflict between parents. Today, it is a challenge with the massive work pressure experienced by the social services of Greenland's municipalities. The government has to deal with the implementation of this legislation and with a social system that is strongly challenged in Greenlandic society. It is not clear from this draft law how it is intended to ensure this in practice. Unfortunately, we see that the Greenlandic community is legally placed at a disadvantage than the Danish one, and as I mentioned earlier, it goes from the fact that it is called "must' to the fact that it is called "can'. In relation to the Hague Children's Protection Convention, no provision has been made for amending the Criminal Code for Greenland. This means that the abduction of a child from Denmark to Greenland should be equated with abduction outside the Kingdom community. That should be the focus of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151554	Thank you. And there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151559	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a very clear speech, in which, of course, we agree that this is a clear step forward, but that there are also a number of things that need to be done better. However, the rapporteur does have a very important point, and that is that one thing is that we improve the rights of Greenlandic children, but another is how they can then be enforced in reality with the difficulties of the Greenland legal system, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And then I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether we could like to have some ideas, some suggestions as to which way we could go in that respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151646	Thank you very much for the question. It is both in the courts and it is in the social services that I also mentioned, and although it is a Greenlandic matter, it is important that we deal with it when we make this legislation, which also comes into contact with and relies on a Greenlandic social system. Compared to the case figures that I mentioned earlier, that is to say the 100-300 cases per case. Caseworker, it is not necessarily the picture of everyone, but if you have a great workload, it goes without saying that it is difficult to make the early effort. So a ceiling on how many cases you can sit with is one of the very concrete things • updating the legislation on children and young people in Greenland and a much earlier effort could be some of the things you could go in and point out. This is certainly some of what we recommend from the IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151737	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151738	Thank you. It was certainly a concrete proposal. It is clear and we agree that the social security system is Greenland's responsibility, but that responsibility for the judiciary lies here, that is, over at the Prime Minister's Office. And there I think it is important that we get some concrete examples of how we can then approach the objective that we are all, I suppose, per year. The definition agrees, namely that in the areas where Denmark is responsible in Greenland we must strive to ensure that the level is the same as it is here in Southern Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151818	Thank you very much. Now we are part of Greenland that is not so happy with the word South Denmark, but thank you very much for the question. As far as the courts are concerned, some funds have been earmarked for the fight against piles, but when we look at this area, i.e. parental responsibility, it is really important that we focus on conflict mediation. And that is why I think it is so important to ensure that this is where you put your resources and that that is where you put your strength, because that is where we can solve a lot of the challenges in families.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151850	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151854	I would like to congratulate Greenland on the fact that we have come so far and also thank you for the excellent work done by Aaja Chemnitz Larsen in this regard, and I would like to return the question, which I myself had before, about whether there is anything that we in Denmark can do to help solve some of the problems that might be for Greenlandic children. Now we have this report from the child speaker, and Aaja Chemnitz Larsen also mentioned himself along the way, that of course we will not be able to change the legislation, and that is why I would just like to ask about it. Because it must at least be the case that in Greenland we know that we in Denmark want to help, we do not want to dictate how things are to be done and we have no intention of doing so. But at least I feel that the Kingdom community would like to be such that we help each other, and if there is something we can do on the Danish side, then we would like to do it ourselves. I'd like to know if there are any ideas for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105151948	Thank you very much. Now, unfortunately, I and my party are in opposition in Greenland, but we have, of course, put forward a number of very concrete solutions for debate in Inatsisartut, and that is what we are doing. on this one with an indication of the case. Unfortunately, we see that there is a lack of will to look at cases. A study will be carried out, which means that nothing will happen during this parliamentary term unless pressure is put on, so we have to look at it. So I think it is important to emphasise, as I have said before, that this is a Greenlandic matter, but I also think it is very important and it is perhaps most of all a call to my Greenlandic colleagues in Inatsisartut and, in particular, in the Naalaksuisut that we need to find solutions. This is not about party politics, it is about having a common interest in children and young people in Greenland and the Kingdom community, of course, and we must do what we can to ensure it.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152046	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152049	I just wanted to say that I fully agree with that. I fully agree that this is also a Greenlandic matter, and that is also why I would like to emphasise that, contrary to some of the statements made by other Danish politicians, the majority of us have no intention that it should not be a Greenlandic matter. We are worried when we hear the reports from Greenland and when we hear the child speaker raise such serious matters as have been done, and therefore it is merely an offer of assistance. It was actually just a comment and not so much a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152123	Does the rapporteur have a comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152125	Yeah. Thank you very much for your good will, at least it has been noted with me. I think it is important to say that this report, which has come from the MIO, does not express an isolated problem in Greenland, and therefore it is really important that we keep this focus, even when attention to this report has disappeared again, because it does at some point. Yes, so there is a need for us to keep discussing this here, including in the Greenland Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152150	Thank you to the rapporteur from the IA. Then we move on to the rapporteur for Siumut, Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152159	The Hague Child Protection Convention aims to avoid conflicts between the legal systems of those States in matters relating to the protection of children associated with several States. Children associated with several states must be as effectively protected as children who are linked to only one state. I have great expectations that this extremely important bill will be adopted unanimously here in Parliament. A unanimous legislative committee and a unified Inatsisartut adopted this proposal in the spring, which will bring significant improvements in a large number of areas in Greenland, not least for our children. In order to increase gender equality, good forces have worked hard over a number of years to implement various actions. It is part of a long-awaited package of family law changes that is an important step in modernising family law, whether you are in Greenland, in the Faroe Islands or in Denmark. Our primary task is to give the children a safe upbringing. The values that our society reflects are important for the children to be aware of. When a child is aware that the mother and the danger are equal, we have already taken a major step in the right direction in relation to the parental responsibility law. It is important for children at an early age to be involved in gender equality. This proposal will also mean increased rights for children, because in future children's wishes will be given greater weight in matters of parental responsibility and association. The legislative package also includes accession to the Hague Children's Protection Convention, which means that decisions on parental responsibility can also be invoked outside the borders of the Kingdom Community, which we of Siumut naturally support. Another major step is that the adoption of this bill will give same-sex couples the opportunity for ecclesiastical marriage. It is incredibly important that everyone, regardless of their skin colour, belief, sexual preferences and others, should not be discriminated against in society. The law will ensure that everyone is protected with the same rights. It has been the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that any rule of law having effect for Greenland should be available to citizens and authorities, etc. in a Greenlandic version. The Legal Affairs Committee therefore assumes that the publication of the Greenlandic version of the scheme will also include a Greenlandic translation of the Convention. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has called on the State Government to ask the government authorities, for the sake of good order, to pay attention to this, which Siumut is also passing on. With these comments, I hereby suspend and support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152538	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152545	Thank you for your speech and some comments with which I can very much agree. I am pleased that there is also a positive attitude from Siumut to the draft law, which I myself, of course, have also helped to promote the whole process from the Greenlandic debate until the proposal has been put forward here today. I would like to ask whether Siumut has any ideas on how we can increase cooperation between Denmark and Greenland in this area or make it better. This is not necessarily more cooperation, but are there some areas in which we in Denmark can improve in relation to cooperation on children's conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152626	Thank you very much for the question. That is a very, very important announcement. I think that Greenland and Denmark in general have many good experiences in helping each other. I also know that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Greenland family directorate have internal agreements in which they help each other in the fields of advice, know-how and the like, which are of great importance for further work. Having said that, however, I also think that legal certainty in Greenland is an area which is very, very neglected and which is a purely Danish area. In this context, I believe that Denmark and the Danish Parliament can be responsible for ensuring better legal certainty in Greenland, so that it can be placed on an equal footing with legal certainty in Denmark. I think that would be very important. If I was a child and grew up and felt that an injustice was being done to me, I would like someone to contact. 14 out of our settlements are today without municipal officers, i.e. No court man to turn to. This is very, very important for our understanding of a society that is safe for the law. In this context, I believe that the whole parliament can do some things much better than it does today.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152730	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152733	I just want to sign for that, and I definitely think that's something we should talk about. Of course. If there are so many people who are without a place to contact, if they have any problems with the police or the judicial system at all, then of course it is a problem, and that also sounds wrong to me. So I think we should have a discussion on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152753	Another thing that I think is very important is that we do not lack the political will to do something. We are lacking resources from people who can help to raise a great deal of responsibility like this. I can only encourage people, very good heads, to try to get a job in Greenland and help to lift this work, because we have a lack of well-trained staff in the social worker sector, in the pedagogic sector and many other sectors that can all help to raise the issue here. I also think it is important, when we talk about cooperation, that we also look at how we can strengthen each other's efforts together.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152834	Sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152837	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Congratulations also to Mrs Aleqa Hammond and her party on the legislative proposal we are discussing today, which all the evidence suggests will be adopted in broad agreement. I'd like to continue with that a little bit, sir. Rasmus Jarlov asked about the legal area in which Denmark is responsible. There we now have two concrete proposals. We have had one from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen to set a ceiling on the piles of cases, and the rapporteur has raised the issue of the settlers. My question is: are there any other concrete proposals on how we can get closer to the objective that everyone agrees on, namely that the level in Greenland in the area of legal policy should be the same as in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105152926	Firstly, I am very pleased that the government's basis says that the legal system in Greenland must be at the same level as it is in Denmark. So we have high hopes that something will be done, even in the context of this budget debate. Having said that, we have a very good tool that we need to work with. Denmark and Greenland have agreed to make a very important recommendation, which has been 10 years in the process. These are the recommendations of the Legal Affairs Commission, which were already presented 10 years ago. The implementation of it is far from complete and, in time, it is not a question of whether there is a willingness to help promote better legal certainty in Greenland. It is simply a lack of political will to set aside funds for the implementation phase. In this context, I believe that the Parliamentary Finance Act is essential to remedy the lack of legal certainty in Greenland. So it is certainly a question of political priorities, and in this context we are ready and will help to promote the area that really needs a boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153032	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153034	Thank you for your answer. And then I can only confirm that the Enhedslisten will certainly support it if we have any opportunity to do so. We are also pleased with the wording in the government base that the judiciary in Greenland should be at the same level as in Denmark. But without bothering anyone, it can be said that this has been a principle for many, many years and that we all have to see that there is quite a long way to go before it fits in with reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153106	If you want to ensure equal treatment for the citizens of the Kingdom, it obliges you not to downgrade some parts of the Kingdom community and prioritise elsewhere. It is discrimination, and I do not think that is worthy of the Kingdom community. I think legal certainty should be the same everywhere, no matter where you live in the Kingdom Community. Being in community means that we do things together to ensure that the kingdom becomes stronger. In this context, I also believe that there is a good deal to be done before we can even talk about equality in terms of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153145	Then it's mr. Steen Holm Iversen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153148	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The bill attempts to take into account current Greenlandic conditions such as transport distances and such things. And there I would like to ask and forgive my ignorance about Greenlandic relations... if the rapporteur can see an opportunity to integrate the use of new technology to a greater extent, for example. videoconferences, in precisely the police treatment which has been discussed several times in the debate on village officers? However, this is also true in relation to the current draft law on access to child-sacrificing advice and the other matters that have been discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153230	After all, we live in a society where we count for miles is very far apart from each other from town to village. And in this context, of course, it is always a challenge to reach each other where it really happens and where you have to be there quickly. It has not always been possible to be present when people have really needed it. At home, we do everything we can to have contact with each other via the Internet. We have teleconferences, we have telephone conferences and we have other ways of helping us with IT. This is an area which is given very high priority, and it is also used as much as one can at all. However, it is not the same that one's legal certainty is leveled for an Internet. It is another thing to have legal certainty in the city in which you are living, that you have a police representative to contact, that there are some people you can contact and that you should not seek help only via telephone or internet. This is very, very important for our perception of a secure legal society.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153337	Sir. Steen Holm Iversen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153338	Thank you. I fully understand that, but that is not even the case in Denmark. It's not that I don't support the fact that you have to have looked at this situation with the villagers. But I don't live in a city where I have 24-hour police service or even authority service. And that is the reality for a large number of citizens in this country. What I am just saying is that if we are to do something about legal certainty in the short term, the use of new technology might well be an option. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153410	Now I do not want to compare the conditions for the land officers here with the conditions for our municipal officers, because that is something that cannot be compared at all. Here you can drive directly to a village in no time, whereas at home with us there may be up to several days before the police reach a village because of the distance, the weather and much else, and therefore you cannot compare it. It is also very important for our psychological perception of how well we are in terms of legal certainty that we have one to make representations to. But we're doing what we can in the IT field to make the best of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153451	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153453	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I would like to follow up on the question that Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten raised a little in relation to this with child-sacrifice knowledge and advice, because I do not think I received a clear answer. The rapporteur said that it would be very good if there were Danish social workers seeking positions in Greenland. However, I also think it is important to point out that Naalakkersuisut in the area itself has previously been out to say that there are actually a number of trained social workers in Greenland who do not work as case workers. I think this is a cause for concern as to whether we are creating jobs which are attractive enough to make them want to be social workers. When you're sitting with up to 300 cases per person. I think that is worrying. So I would like to know what solutions Mrs Aleqa Hammond has for this challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153552	I don't think this is just a question of who comes looking for work. This is an area that is not just of a political nature. This is an area that is so important that it is not just a political solution that needs to be found, and it is not just a matter of money. It is a great deal about people's perception of what is right and wrong. It is also a question of people's perception of how much one can do in one's work, much more than one actually realizes that one should be able to do. I also think that this is a question of information, and it is also a question of preventive action in society. I think this is also a question of allowing people to know about their own legal certainty and about their rights. There are many aspects in this society that are equally important. It is not just educators, but certainly psychiatrists, psychologists and the like that we are all missing. This isn't a matter of hiring a few either, but it's one of the roads. I also think that Inatsisartut and Naalakkersuisut have the overall priority of a special effort to promote our children's conditions throughout Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153700	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153702	After all, we have talked a lot about the lack of competence to be able to lift this with conflict mediation. I just think it is an important input into this debate that we actually have some people with a relevant education for which we ourselves have helped to pay, in an area that has been neglected, to put it like it is. And that also affects this family package. So I think it gives reason to consider what we can do to lift the social area, so that we also provide child-sacrifice knowledge and advice in these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153737	I totally agree. I think it is important that this is not just a political matter. In order to find the best possible solution and get the best possible benefit from the instruments we have in society, I think it is important that we hear what professionals themselves point to as possible solutions. It is equally important to go along so that in future we ensure a very good, forward-looking and strategically important effort, so that we all take pride in pride. In this context, I believe that solutions must be found outside the political sphere among the professionals.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153820	Thank you to Siumut's rapporteur. And then we go to the Social Affairs and Interior Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105153832	I would like to start by thanking all the rapporteurs for a very interesting debate, an important debate. I agree when many of the rapporteurs mention that this is a very good case and that it is an important thing that we are doing now and here. Because with this bill, the law on parental responsibility and on marriage between two people of the same sex is being put into effect in Greenland. The element we have talked about today, with the right of revulsion, that is to say the fact that you have to beat your children, is indisputablely wrong when you talk to Danish children and Danish families. It probably hasn't been in Greenland. At least the law hasn't been clear, but it is now. The latest report, which I myself delved into here a few days ago, really makes an impression, and I think we all agree on that. One gets angry, sad and frustrated to read about the conditions under which too many children grow up. So for me it is very, very important that children in Greenland receive the same protection in such matters as children in Denmark have. Here we are talking specifically about parental responsibility, which is why we have made an important step forward. A few specific questions were raised during the debate. Among other things: Mr. Finn Sørensen to the entry into force of the initiative here. And there is the fact that the parental responsibility law part will enter into force on 1 July 2016 and that the second part about marriage between two persons of the same sex will enter into force on 1 April 2016. It is true, as several of the rapporteurs also said, that the reason for the postponement has been that parliamentary elections have been held from time to time and that, therefore, it is actually a re-submission that we are holding today. Then there have been a few comments or suggestions from Mr. Liberal Alliance. Steen Holm Iversen about the use of technology in work, also about parental responsibility laws, children's cases etc. And I see this as a really good part of the debate, compared to how we in Denmark and Greenland help each other find out how we work with this area. The Danish area is not perfect either. I would therefore like to make it clear here that our cooperation between Denmark and Greenland is extremely important. That is why I would like to thank the rapporteurs who also highlight the cooperation we have, particularly in the social field. I look forward to it continuing. The last question that was raised by several rapporteurs is why it is not, as it were, the whole package at this stage. To this I would like to say that in my optics this is the first step, and that we have agreed with Greenland, that the next steps in the update will be about the children's law, i.e. among other things. what had been questioned in relation to fatherhood and co-motherhood. With these comments, I am, of course, available to answer any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee procedure which is now under way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154230	Thank you. And we first have a brief remark from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154236	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. Thank you, too, for addressing some of the points raised during the debate. I think that is very good style, and I would like to see that spread to the whole government, because then we will have much more than a debate, and that is why we are here. So thank you for that. I also very much agree with the Minister in her experiences, because that is the way it is when you read that report. But I guess that's gotta tell us all something. I welcome the fact that the Minister has also given a hand to Greenland in this situation and said that if Greenland wants to discuss how we can support it, then the Minister is prepared to do so. I think that is a very good signal. But it must also be a signal to the rest of us that we are speeding up the points on which we have an influence here, namely the rules of law. I do not think there is much response to the wishes of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in Greenland which Mr Inatsisartut has agreed to and which have also been mentioned in this debate. I would like to hear a few more comments on this, so why are the Greenlanders not being followed all the way in this respect in relation to this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154357	In relation to this bill, I recognise that this is a first step, an important step, a big step. I think all the other things are clear here today. Everything in this package is happy. And then there is also a clear indication of what the next step is in relation to the children's law. The question of the whole legal situation in general is, of course, over in the Ministry of Justice's area of responsibility, and that is why the Minister for Justice will have to answer it in more detail. Of course, I would suggest that the committee should be allowed to ask it in more detail during the committee procedure, so that I can also get contributions from my colleague in the Ministry of Justice to those questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154448	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154449	Thank you. We agree, of course, that this is a major step, and the debate here is simply an expression of a great will, as far as I am concerned, of all the rapporteurs to move forward, and it also expresses the Minister, so we can only be happy about that. I think that in several of the proposals of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which have also been mentioned here, there is something which actually concerns this draft law and where it could be done better. Just one thing is the suggestion that abducting a child from Greenland to Denmark should be criminalised and treated as abducting the child abroad. And I simply do not understand that answer. I don't think you answer that. I do not know whether the Minister can explain why that request will not be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154537-2	As far as child abductions between Denmark and Greenland are concerned, it is, of course, the case that, with the entry into force of parental responsibility legislation, the rules on child abductions are identical in Greenland and Denmark, because it is already punishable for a parent who does not have custody of the child, to take the child from Greenland to Denmark or vice versa without the consent of the other parent. It is also a criminal offence to take the child abroad. So I kind of think it's important to make that clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154618	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154621	Many thanks to the Minister and also many thanks for recognising that the Children's Act needs to be updated. It's something I personally have fought a lot for, so I'm really, really glad about that. Another thing for which I personally have also fought very hard is the Hague Children's Protection Convention and, as I understand the Minister, this area has been lifted up. These are, of course, some things that we have pointed out from the point of view of the IA and which have apparently been included along the way, so I hope that we will also be able to clarify the future in the work of the committee. Then I think there are two tasks to be done. One is in relation to this with child-sacrifice knowledge, which we have discussed a great deal in today's debate, and the other is in relation to conflict mediation, where there is a desire to move from one country to another in the legislation, and I would like to hear the Minister's response to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154714	Let me say briefly that in Denmark the state administration has a duty to offer parents child-sacrificing advice in these disputes. And now that we have the parental responsibility law put into effect here, the courts and the richman in Greenland will have the opportunity to offer child-sacrificing advice. And it is true that there is no obligation to offer advice to children's experts, and it is quite simple because at this stage there are not the necessary competences simply to make the offer compulsory, and therefore the wording is as it stands. I still believe that this is an important first step. I understand the wishes, but I believe that this is an important first step.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154805	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154806	I think there is a need for this to be followed up because, as I understand the courts, they are going to make contact with the municipalities, as they are doing today to a certain extent, in order to ensure the knowledge of these children's experts. So I think there is a need to clarify whether it is really some people who have to be recruited in the courts. That is certainly not the view of the courts, as I understood when it was discussed in the Legal Affairs Committee in Inatsisartut. So I think there is a need to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154836	It is obvious to take that discussion, but it is, of course, the discussion about the competence of children's experts in general, and it also leads back to the general debate that we keep on having about competences in terms of raising an important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154859	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105154901	I think it is very important that some discussions which have previously been considered taboos and sensitive issues should be raised. It is important that we address all the problems of society in the political debate, so that we ensure a good society where all issues are taken seriously, regardless of the extent to which they may be dealt with. I think it is going in the right direction and that Greenland has really taken the lead in detablishing and discussing some issues that were previously considered sensitive. Having said that, it is also important to look at how we can make our mechanisms and systems stronger to ensure that we can tackle these issues all the way through. The minister refers a little to the report, which she has been reading in the last few days. I would like to hear what the Minister thinks should be done on the Danish side to help lift this. Out of curiosity, I would like to hear what the Minister has to say about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105155005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105155006	That is where the Minister would like to smile at the rapporteur and say: it was nice to have such a huge question and such a short answer time. So I would very much like to talk about this with the rapporteur. However, I think it is crucial that we maintain in this discussion that this is, of course, a Greenlandic matter and that we must work together, also in the future. I was pleased that the rapporteur himself also explained what cooperation exists, among other things. in the social field. It seems to me very, very important that we continue this cooperation, that we insist on cooperation. And with this legislative package, I believe that some important steps have been taken, which can also be used in Greenland to signal precisely what is good and what is not good, in the discussions on how to take care of your children. I have great respect for that, and it is a job that you take seriously and take a life tag with you. For breaking taboos, I'd say it's hard. There is no doubt about that. But it's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105155109	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105155110	I am pleased to say that the Minister will be open to contributing to how things can be resolved and that it is important to cooperate. Just as important was a report last week in which the Institute for Human Rights pointed out that more than half of the Greenlandic population in Denmark is being discriminated against by the Danish system. Children are also involved in the approaches made by socially vulnerable Greenlanders. In this context, I would like to hear what the Minister has to say about getting good cooperation to tackle this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105155148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105155149	It is once again a report that has been on my desk that was just last week from the Institute for Human Rights, and that is precisely the point of a problem that concerns the lack of inclusion. One of the things that has been my reaction to this has been that, together with the gamble parties with which I sat at the negotiating table last week, I concluded a debate where we allocated funds to the Greenlandic houses in Denmark. I very much believe that the Greenlandic houses have an important task. You have had it from the beginning, and you have to continue with it, and it is precisely about working for better inclusion in society in Denmark and life in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105155236	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20151105155254	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 6 November 2015, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
